ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, radio audiences, television sets. March 16, today, Friday. Deputies, please prepare for registration. A registration is being carried out. [[10:02:45]] There are 250 members of the national parliament who are not evading their work. We have every reason to start the morning session. I declare it open. Dear colleagues, today according to article 25 of the Rules, we have time to make inquiries. I'm doing it. People's deputies' questions came from Ukraine: Igora Kryla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary response to the situation in connection with the financial support programme of the Zacarpathian agri-industrial complex. He told the Prime Minister of Ukraine that he was not satisfied with the reply to the parliamentary appeal about the negative effects on national producers resulting from the introduction of new mechanisms for the sale of raw materials. Vladimir Tarasov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal. Vitalia Korža and Mikola Sivullski to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for compensation for the loss of the budget of the city of Truskavec for the execution of its own powers in connection with the State's granting of land-based aid. Vladimir Bronnikov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, for the insufficient response of workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to the citizens' request to provide them with legally defined social benefits and guarantees. Deputies: Zac, Komar and others - only 4 deputies - to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine for the inclusion of water networks in the Government's 2007 Drinking Water Programme in the Donetsk Region. Vladimir Tarasovado, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal possession of state property and private property of a company with a limited liability “Professional”, systematic raiding schemes and failure to respond to established deadlines. Eduard Zeynalovado, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the issue of interference with the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy and improper checks for parliamentary appeals. Vasil Bogchukado, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the Open Shareholder Society of Leasing Company Kragroprommashinvest. "Stolen News", more specifically. Andrija Orlovado of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine, on violations of legislation during the process of procurement of services at the state funds of the State Enterprise Orzhenikidzeugil. Andrija Orlova also went to the Attorney General of Ukraine to examine the facts of illegal interference and to prevent the activities of the State Enterprise Artemugil. Oresta Muzado, Attorney General of Ukraine, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of speech and information regarding the referral of journalists to the weekly Journalist of the Ternopil City Council, Ternopil Evening, on the violation of their labour rights, the misuse of the budget allowed by the editor-in-chief, the disregard of the rights of the national deputy, as well as the censorship and practice of the Dark Ones, to whom the deputy of the peoples of Ukraine is involved, the editor-in-chief and secretary-general of the Ternopil City Council for this issue. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the adoption by the prosecutor of the Mikolai District of the illegal and unfounded decision to refuse a criminal offence based on the death of the MP of the Nikolai town council of Alexander Chikal. Alexia Malinovsky of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the status of fish farming in Cherkaščina. He made a statement yesterday on the basis of this statement or a request. Andrew Pinchuck to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the abuse of office and the neglect of office duties of the Chief of Housing and Building Corporation, Sudnovnik-7, located on the 19th street in the city of Kiev. John Bondarcukado of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office to the REY Plus Industrial Group on the payment of debts on wages to employees of the Turbovska kaolin factory and the Turbovska kaolin kolinska combine of the Winnitsky region. Yuri Miroshnicka, two questions. One is the Ukrainian Defence Minister's answer to the MP's appeal. And to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the preparation of the publication of the three-to-to-one Encyclopedia of International Law. Grigory Kaletnikado Head of the Open Shareholders' Association “Savedbink” on problems in obtaining loans from farmers. Teams of deputies to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Water Management on the allocation of funds for conservation measures in the villages of Stupka and the Red Constantine region of the Donetsk Region. [[Zaz, Komar and others]] Romana Zabzalukado, head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, for failure to meet the legal requirements of the National Deputy and not to provide the necessary information to the head of the State Tax Administration of the Mikolai district of Anatoly the Terrible. Victor Schwetz to the head of the Ukrainian State Forestry Committee on the illegal actions of the local authorities to place the forest area under construction in the village of Vita Postova Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kyiv region. Andrija Pinchuk to the deputy of the Kiev City Council, secretary of the Kiev City Council, for information on the violation of existing legislation in part of the takeover of land to the Russian shareholders' society. Such parliamentary requests, which will be sent literally to the addressees today. We have a statement from two factions -- the factions of the Socialists and the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine -- about a break of 30 minutes, but I understand that we can avoid a statement, a three-minute statement. If there is no objection, who will speak? You? Alexander Baranowski makes a statement or a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u2	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I would now like to make an application for the City Council session, which took place on 14 March 2007 in the city of Zitomir. By this time, attention had been paid not only to the natives but also to the general public of Ukraine. And not just because of the acuteity of the problem as such. Some political forces have opened up this painful issue of actual vacchanalism, referring to tariffs. The session was attended by a group of national deputies, including the leader of BUT Yulia Timoshenko. Speaking to city council deputies, the BUT leader called for a 10% reduction in tariffs, to which the City Council deputy was reasonably noted, and why not by 10%, why not by five, why not by forty? I asked why not 90 percent. The City Council MPs explained to the leaders that they are not considering the issue at all today, because the message of the day was "to approve measures aimed at organising housing and utility tariffs". And they formed appropriate commissions, engaged audit companies to verify the actual state of affairs that is in the tariff case for one or the other utilities, and then made a judgmental decision. And the decisions of the deputies were made on the basis of the day’s announcement, forming appropriate commissions, and so forth. More to the point, when the BUT leader spoke on the city council, it was said that tariffs were not criminal, but I would like to say who introduced these criminal tariffs in Žitomir. Chief of Housing and Utilities Zitomir, member of the BUT faction of Gennady Zabrodsky. It was under his direction that these tariffs were based on in the fall of 2006. What a surprise it was to me when the news conference was held on the news channels of various agencies the night she arrived in Gitomir, calmed down and lowered the tariffs by 10 percent. The public is shocked by the lie that sounds from the BUT leder. Therefore, I would like to point out that, of course, populism can be built for itself, but not on such outright lies. The point is in Zitomir in the following. That its popularity has dropped by 10 percent in recent months. And in this way, in order to raise popularity, such a lie tries to gain authority. I don't think it's as honorable as the leaders of BUT and other politicians who are trying to get political dividends on account of their lies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u3	I would advise you to refrain from applying in the absence of a deputy, because what is used in such a false way is no surprise to anyone, because it is a form of work for the specific people mentioned. But in the presence, if I said that, it would somehow cause a replica, and then the information would be more complete than, for the radio audience at least. We have a plan to list the issues raised by the Conciliation Council, and I begin its consideration. Previous report of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the investigation of the costs incurred by the privatisation of VAT “Civoristal”. Report to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Andry Vilenovich Senchenko, please. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You are invited to receive a preliminary report from the interim commission of inquiry on the spending of funds received from the privatization of the Criovorostal shareholder society. The text you have allows me only to draw your attention to some of the points. I recall that the Commission was established on 30 November last year and the proposed report approved at its meeting on 20 February this year. That is, given the New Day and Christmas holidays, this report covers the five plenary weeks of our work. I would like to emphasize that all members of the Commission representing different factions in the current regime are provided with all the information in their work and in all cases without exception with the material received. This record has been unanimously approved by the members of the Commission participating in its work. The Commission's task, in our view, is, in the general opinion of the members involved in the work, not to make baseless assessments by the Government of various periods, but to address, on the basis of a scrupulous analysis, all possible questions, including violations, and wine, if established, once and for all, the rulings on where the 24 billion were made 200 million dollars. In order to be fully responsible for the conclusions proposed by the Supreme Council, we have divided the work into two conditional stages. The first stage is a full study, if possible, of the flow of funds from the time competitive guarantees are issued and until the full amount reaches Treasury. As well as the movement of the part of the budget, which is clearly identified as a means of selling Krivorostali, in particular one per cent for the problems of Dnepropetrova and the Horn of Curves. This moment that we already are. This stage, which we are about to conclude, can be provisionally described as documentary. It makes it possible to fully illustrate each decision and action of the authorities and to ensure their impartial assessment. The second stage that we have embarked on is conditionally a dynamic analysis. The substance of the analysis of the 2005 and 2006 budgets and the dynamics of their changes, as well as the analysis of actual budget expenditures, is the decision-making periods for the re-sale of Krivorosali shares, in particular the competition and the period of receipt of funds. This phase requires not only the systematization of information received from the executive branch, but also the commission evaluation of this information through analysis. This priority does not allow the first phase to be interrupted due to the inescapability of heated debates in the second and to ensure that the task before the Commission is as high as possible. I have to say that in the first stage there were some painful problems that were early to be evaluated from this rostrum, but which somehow caused a very painful reaction from some of our colleagues and the executive branch. It was surprising, for example, that the position of the National Bank, which, in response to a request for the conversion of competitive guarantees, had replied that without the consent of the customer of the Housing Fund, it would not answer that question. I think there is confusion: the client, in this case, is the State that represents the Property Fund in its part and the commission of inquiry on the issues delegated by our commission. I think we'll get to the bottom of this. That doesn't bother us. And I want to say that the more resistance there is, the stronger the commission will be. It should be noted, however, that the work of the Commission greatly complicates two factors. The first is the chronic reluctance of individual members of the commission to participate in its work and, as a result, to ensure that the site established behind them is in accordance with the requirements of the regulation. Thus, unfortunately, our colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko, responsible for all the work with Treasury, was present at only one of the three meetings of the Commission. And instead of participating in her work, I am being asked to provide information on the work of the commission that he is still regularly receiving from us. I would like to ask all factions to remind the factions in our investigative commission of the public significance of the issue under consideration and the need to participate actively in the work of our commission. The second problem, Alexander Alexandrovich, is that, despite my repeated appeals to you, and your very well-contested resolutions stressing the public significance of our work, the Commission is still unoccupied with office space and staff have been forced for three months to prepare all the materials on the windowsills and pearls of the Supreme Council, and at evenings to take them away, excuse me, home. In all my letters to you, according to the genre classic, I receive receipts from those managers of the machine that are not considered public significance of the investigations or, unfortunately, your resolutions. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize once again that the Commission of Inquiry is aware of its responsibility to the Supreme Council and our shared responsibility to the electorate for the preparation of full and objective information on the investigation of the expenditure received from the privatization of Krivoroztali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u5	Thank you, Andry Vilenovich. The question is to the reporter? Okay, sign up for the questions, and in the meantime, I'll take advantage of the opportunity to answer Andrew Vilenovich's remarks. He's right about creating normal conditions for temporary special commissions. But we need to look at the total number of commissions and the organization of their work. Because we've created a commission now, and where do we get these rooms? They've dismembered the commissioners by commission, they're more likely to work there than the committees, and when they look at the results of the work, it turns out that they're not going to the meetings, and so on. Therefore, I take into account that such assignments will be given to appropriate services. But once again, if the commission wants to work effectively, it's not in the room, it's in transportation, it's in the technical tools, it's in the interest of the deputy to find out what's going on, because there's not so much to collect here, it's how much to work at the Bloody Rose, the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and so on. I'm asking you, ten minutes to ask, right? Even twelve, because a minute of question and answer. Pinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u6	Pinchuk, Party of Regions, please pass the word to Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u7	Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u8	Thank you, colleague. Dear Mr. Sanchenko, judging from your commission's report, it became clear to us that the commission you created from your initiative, when you started working, you understood what would happen in the end to ask your own. And now you're doing everything you can to get this thing down on the brakes. So I'm asking you to answer why you didn't go to the House of Auditors asking and asking for a purpose check on the funds that came from the privatization of the "Criminals" and, in particular, which came in December 2005, did 15 billion dollars come in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u9	Thank you, Vasily Aleksevich. First. I don't think it's time for the evaluations, so I think it's wrong to start with them. As far as your question is concerned. We have certainly addressed the Court of Auditors, but with a different question: has the Court of Auditors examined the matter and requested the provision of material. They got the answer: they didn't check. We do not want to throw all the work into the Court of Auditors because Parliament had an alternative opportunity not to create a commission but to turn to the Court of Auditors. But we believe it is very important that the work be carried out in the light of the views of the representatives of all factions. Therefore, once again, I would like to emphasize that we regularly gather and discuss all the requests that we are sending and all the answers without exception. We have responsibilities, everyone is responsible for their direction. And I must say that most of our colleagues are active in their direction. Therefore, if we need it, if we do not have our own strength to clarify any aspects, we will certainly turn to the Court of Auditors. But I don't think that's the only direction to study this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u10	Saltus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u11	Deputy Soltus, Party of Regions. I give the floor to the deputy of Hell.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u12	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u13	Hellhound Party, Zaporozhye. Excuse me, Pecklusenko, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question concerning the main issue. What do you see the purpose and purpose of this commission? As you believe, what final results could be made so that the trends discussed today about the money used under the Crimsons could not be used in the future. What is the main task you see in the work of this commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u14	I'm not ready today, I can't assess negative trends, because the work of the commission is still going on. But when I answer your question, I want to say the following. The task of our commission is, you know, to clean up the face of power, regardless of who's sitting in the government offices today. You know very well that this is a matter that is discussed in markets, in public transport, and yet, forgive, curse all power, regardless of the person, considering that this money is spent unjustly. Our task is to respond to all possible questions that can be posed with regard to these funds, so that we can either be sure in this Chamber, from this rostrum, tell everyone that there are no violations and have answered these questions, or have identified such violations, or have identified them as perpetrators, and that they should continue to be dealt with if such violations are to occur, by law enforcement authorities. That's what we're seeing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u15	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u16	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Andrey Vilenovich! I understand that the report is preliminary, but even in the preliminary report, I suppose I have not heard for myself the very essence of the problem that the commission is dealing with. Let's just say I don't get it. The money that went to the polls, for example, was there a solution to how they were used? Pension fund. Did the money get there the way it was used? The city of Curve Horn. Did the city of Curve Horn receive this money? How did this money come to be used, did it come directly to those people who, with their hands and hands, rebuilt the Crimsonstal they sent down? I mean, I'm reluctant to think that they sold the Crimsonstal, walked that money, a billion people don't understand where it's going, part of the money isn't going to go at all, there's no money at all, there's no money at all, there's no business at all, and there's no impact on it. The social sphere will go quietly, the problems that arise in this enterprise, they are, they will grow, and we understand. So what happened, after all, to the state? Or at least the main question: where did the money happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, the mandate of our commission is precisely to answer the last question: where was the money? You have mentioned a number of issues, some of them in the study, some of them, in our view, have already made additional requests and it seems that at the forthcoming meetings of the Commission we will hear information from the executive heads of the Dnepropetrov region and the Horn of the Curve, because this is one of the painful points. It would seem that this is one percent, but let's remember that this is 200 million. And for the Dnepropetrov region and the Horn of Curve, that's a substantial amount. For example, formal violations, but also people’s fates. The law on the use of funds provided for this 200 million. should be listed in the respective budgets within three days. Well, the law entered into force, entered into force in the first numbers of 2006, and so this rule was duplicated in the 2006 Budget Act, which entered into force, this addition, only on 15 March. [[for the year 2005]] Well, it would seem, given all the nuances on 18 March, the amount should have been there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u18	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u19	This amount was received in mid-December last year. Two governments were in charge during that time. Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u20	Right. A player.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u21	Andrej Vilenovich, I remind you, you belong to the Party of Yulia Timoshenko. Second, Yulia Timoshenko has been the last to run and rejoice in the last phase of the privatization of Krivoroztali. Third, Julia Timoshenko, Balog and the President are the same, opposition. That's why you're here, colleague of Matvienkov a thousand times right, when he just took you as a boy, arithmetically, and you slipped away. To expect an objective answer — where is the money? - You can't. So I have a direct question: will you resign as chairman of the commission today, or should we ask you ourselves to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u22	Leonid Ivanovich, I know about this initiative, I will answer you: I will not pass it first, and no one, as a boy, has taken me and will not be able to hold me. I would like to say this: the report approved by you, unanimously by the representatives of all the political forces represented on our Commission, those attending the meeting of the Commission. Unfortunately, today there is a draft regulation prepared by our colleague, MP Miroshnichenko, who was only at one meeting of the Commission and did not participate at all in its work. It is further suggested, so to speak, that the Chairman be replaced by a representative of another political force, but again by a person who has never been to a meeting of the Commission. So once again, this is our collective work, this is our collective responsibility, and we are aware of what this responsibility is. We will answer all questions and ask the culprits further if they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u23	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u24	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Well, I have the impression that the position is not really interested in getting results for which the commission was created. Well, imagine, 24 billion dollars got for privatizing the "Criminals". That's not a penny! Well, 4 billion gave them to Pinchuku because he gave them to the state and 20 billion? 20 billion you can't answer for at least a fraction. Where any part of them works. I have the impression that the commission under your direction will deliberately raise questions about the objective results of the investigation. Then the question is. Either you are pressured by certain individuals, or you are unable to carry out the task assigned by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u25	Thank you. I want to tell you that, yes, I am certainly being pressured by some special ones who are not interested in objective results. I want to remind you that the commission has held five weeks of sessional meetings, that is, all the requests that we sent in December during the commission's formation, the answers to which the primary authorities received only after the Christmas holidays, which is why I cannot speed up this process, but I want to say the following, regardless of the pressure, we will not be making any rapid assessments. I must note that the representative of your Chukmasov faction Sergey Aleksandrovich is present at all the meetings of the Commission, without exception. By our distribution, he is responsible for working with the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. He voted in favour of the report you are now hearing and supported the point of view that I am reporting. So to say that the opposition here is playing some kind of incomprehensible game, at least, groundless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u26	Menduz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u27	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Andryu Vilenovich, in the work materials distributed to the MPs in the hall, has absolutely remarkable information. With all the costs of 2005 from the privatisation of the ‘Cruvoristals’ on January 1st, there should have been about 11 billion 998 million dollars left in the State budget. But according to official figures, Minfin's official figures accounted for only 10 billion 525 million dollars. Where did the difference of one billion 473 million dollars go? I think that's the key question the commission should answer. Because the formulation of public funds — “unknown” — does not withstand any criticism. The movement of government funds is always accompanied by signatures of specific persons authorized, and it is always possible to obtain comprehensive information on whose signature the funds disappeared in an unknown direction. So did you manage to do it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u28	Thank you. This is what the current stage of work is all about. Because once again, we asked for all the primary materials. Not all of us have been satisfied with the fullness and direction of these responses. That is why we have shared our responsibilities among our colleagues and, in particular, we have the responsibility of working with the Treasury of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanović, who must work out this part of the matter and report to the Commission at its meeting. So today we see a difference in numbers, in the responses of the Ministry of Finance, the Court of Auditors, and we understand that these are errors, but then we must understand who the author is and why these errors are made by such serious executive structures. Or this is the basis for talking about some abuse and deeper action. I mean, that's exactly what we're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u29	Thank you, sit down. Andrew Vilenovich, sit down, please. There's a proposition: from factions one at a time to express our reasoning on the evaluation and on what we're going to do next. Please register with the factions who want to speak. I understand that Mikhailo Chechetov of the Regions? If it does, yes. Marmazov, please, from the Communists. From factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u30	Respectable comrades! I am a member of the commission of inquiry, the interim commission related to the Crimson Association. And what I'd like to add to the information. Well, first of all, we have to say that "Criminal" is a big affair. The fact that Julia Vladimirovna claimed, and she claimed that the money that, 24 billion, received for the Crimson Castle, had broken down, there were no such facts. They're gone. It's just a voter charge. The Commission cannot establish this by any means. The only thing to say is that it is a unique enterprise, the most profitable in the steel industry, that there is no more profitable, which has a closed cycle, from the extraction of raw materials and the production of prokata. We've paid $24 billion. The most profitable profit in 2006 was a profit of up to 12 billion. So, I'll tell you that this money that was sold for, with such a paphos that the President came, sat there in the room, congratulated each other, I thought he'd even start giving the order. That money was, in fact, $4 billion to the former owners of Pinchuku and so on. Although the question is, what should we do? It was found that privatization, formerly initial privatization, had been carried out in violation of the law. The Attorney General admitted that. So if there's a violation of the law, why would these violators pay back four billion? They've been given away. Okay. Where did the rest of the money go? There were a lot of good suggestions. It was a special development fund to develop aviation, space and so on and so on. That's probably right. And part of it was the decision to send the money to pay off the deposits. However, one of the first, the President's second decree, when he fought, had a second decree that he would solve the problem. They didn't make a penny for the deposit. Not one penny has been sent to this fund for the development of enterprises, promising enterprises in Ukraine. It's all gone into the budget, actually, that's the money that's been spent. Spent the money that went into the budget. Now, for today, we have neither the factory nor the income nor the money. That's all the painting on "Crimsons." Of course, this should lead to the end of the test, to figure out why four billion had been returned. Why we've done so stupidly, and who's to blame for us now, that's what happened to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u31	I ask MPs to express themselves correctly using definitions. What do you mean, "you've been through it"? Nobody ate anything, they just stole it. That's the way to say it, it's been stolen. Because if it wasn't reflected in the budget, and the money was spent, that means the money was stolen. It's a crime scene. Please, Kuzmenko from the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u32	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. I'd like to stop at two questions. First. What did we expect from the previous report? From the previous report, we expected the previous results of full or incomplete problems faced by the commission and suggestions on how to solve these problems. I didn't hear any of this myself. It seems that the chairman of the commission who reported here is simply trying to keep some accounts inside the commission. That's the first one. The other one. In fact, what is the point? It's about the fact that my colleague Marmazov just said right here that there is no business or money. Then the question of responsibility becomes: Should he be responsible? We have not heard that either, and it is understandable why. Because the commission is headed by a representative of the faction, which, together with our Ukraine, is part of the opposition, and at the same time, it was also run at the time of the sale of the Chrystals, and the moment when the money from the sale of the Zaporoztals was spent. So, what the hell is the truth with these factions? They need to be completely different -- they need to hide this truth as much as possible, and we can see that this is happening. From my point of view, and this is not only my point of view, but also the fact that today opposition representatives are boasting about their economic gains at a time when they were running the country when they were running the government of the country, it's an attempt to use the money from the sale of the Crimsons to provide for the populist steps they are taking today. In fact, nothing important to the development of the country at the time was done. And now they're trying to hide from us what was going on with the money. And what Jaroslav Mendoza was saying right now is about a billion people who don't know where they're going, even though they don't actually say they're gone, they're spent, legally or legally -- that's the question. We haven't heard the answer to that question, I've already said, the reason that there's no answer is completely understandable is because they want to fool us, they want to hide the truth from us. So I insist that the commission be changed today, or we will never know the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u33	Chechetov, I understand, from the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies, an analysis of official documents from the public authorities regarding the use of funds from the privatisation of the “Civoristal” testifies. First. In 2005, according to Minfin, 19 billion 940 million dollars went to the budget from the privatisation of VAT “Crioristal”. The other one. According to the Court of Auditors, part of the funding from the privatisation of VAT “Crioristal” in the amount of 7 billion 900 million dollars was used in 2005 to cover the government budget deficit. Third. According to Minfin, 4 billion 395 million dollars in 2005 are earmarked to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund. The difference of 3 billion 505 million dollars between the above-mentioned accounts and the official details of Minfin are not reflected in the documents and the direction of use of these funds is unknown. With all the costs in 2005, the privatisation of VAT “Crioristal” on 1 January 2006 was expected to leave 11 billion 998 million dollars in the budget; but according to official data of Minfin, the balance was only 10 billion 525 million dollars. Where did the difference of 1 billion 473 million dollars disappear to be included in the estimated balance at the beginning of 2006? We don't know. According to Minfin, 9 billion $361 million of the money is used to cover budget deficits, including those related to environmental improvements and socio-economic development in the city of Krivi Rig and its surrounding Dnipropetrov region. There is no information on the use of 9 billion 24 million dollars. The total amount of funds received from the privatisation of VAT “Crioristal”, which from 2005 to the first half of 2006, is unknown, amounts to almost 15 billion 166 million dollars or 76.1 per cent of the total amount of funds that came into the public budget. The question is, where did 15 billion people's money go from Krivoroztali? I think that the orange gang used part of the money for the elections of the past, which has succeeded and failed, that there is a God in the light, that justice has triumphed! And part of the money must have been stashed in early elections. That is why Timoshenko’s activities are understandable: let us hold early elections! He's building himself up here, Mother Teresa! Yes! However, the money from Crimsonfoot is likely to be detained and will be used for these elections. But God is in the light, yes! We'll find that money! I therefore propose to extend the work of the Commission, so that the Court of Auditors will know where they have gone and how much money has been received, especially in December 2005. And third. It may be necessary to replace the commission leaders so that the commission is more principled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u35	You may recall, I ask you not to express yourself in Parliament's meetings. Please, correctly, about those who are and those who are not. Timoshenko Sas Sergey speaking from the Julia Block faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u36	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, Deputy Sass, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, First Deputy Head of the Regulatory Committee. Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw the attention of the Chief at the meeting and the colleagues present to the following circumstances. According to the previous report of the interim investigating commission on the investigation of the costs of “Cruvoristal” it is proposed that a draft decision be adopted by our colleague, National Deputy Miroshnichenko. With regard to this bill, I would like to say the following. Which, unfortunately, is now my colleague Miroshnichenko missing in the hall, but perhaps in the first place I'll be addressing the head of the meeting and the Peacekeeper, I think he'll look at the transcript. A well-known lawyer and lawyer-professor, a colleague of Miroshnichenko's, perhaps. Who calls himself every time a lawyer-professor on a speech from the Supreme Council stands, probably should know that according to Part Four. He offered the following things to make it clear. In the second draft decision, it is proposed that the temporary commission of inquiry be considered unsatisfactory. And in paragraph 3, select the head of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council for the investigation of the People’s Deputy Kirichenko, relieved of the responsibilities of the commission of the national deputy Senchenko. Thus, with regard to the establishment of a commission in accordance with article 80, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council Rules, the Supreme Council adopts a decision setting out the quantity and personal composition of the interim commission. Therefore, the People's Deputy Miroshnichenko should have known that a draft decision should have been made to amend the Commission's decision to set up a commission of inquiry and to propose the things he proposes. Next. National MP Miroshnichenko probably should have known the rules of part seven of 80, where the head of the temporary special commission, the deputy head, the secretary of the commission cannot be members of a single MP group. It is proposed that the head of the commission of the national deputy Kirichenko be elected while the deputy head of the commission is the national deputy of Gjellier. And with regard to the replica, which was expressed by a colleague of Kuzman from this rostrum, according to the Constitutional Court’s conclusion of November 5, 2003. I quote: the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry is a guarantee of the rights of the opposition in the Supreme Council and contributes to the exercise of the Supreme Council of Parliament's control. I propose that the commission report be accepted and that the commission be allowed to continue its work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Representatives of all the factions who wanted to know, who were interested in the share of the funds received from the implementation of the combination and where they disappeared today. I would like to sum up this discussion and give a few suggestions. I think that the situation is standard for Ukraine, unfortunately, over the past 15 years, the authorities have not learned to benefit from privatization. That's why they didn't actually have any income. I learned to deal with those who worked in the pockets. And for the first time, we have faced the need to look, and what happens when privatization is done on the basis of the law as it should be done? And it turns out that it's not for the money that comes from the best in Europe, or even in the combined world. We offered to send the money back then, and that's what Eugene Vasilovich mentioned in his statement, so that they could be used to make up for the population's contributions. Which, by the way, would be the fairest thing, because that's how they formed their investment in the previous period. You can imagine what the level of capitalization of savings would be if it were going to go into his accounts. How would this affect the banking system in general, the lowering of the loan rate, many other things? And whoever didn't play with the attempt to bankrupt Savings Bank, as was done by the previous leaders there, in this system. He would work hard, he would protect citizens' savings, and trust would be great to this institution. Na, they didn't support it. Here we're going to use another way. We used it. Now they don't know where the money went. It's a clean water crime. I think that's the way to deal with this problem. I think the commission would be doing the right thing if, in some episodes, the Attorney General's Office were to address the criminal case and proceed accordingly. Now it is about the decree made by Yuri Miroshnichenko. He's such a professional lawyer, you see, no one's denying it, even Sergei Sass confirmed it. Clearly, then, we should respect what he has to offer. But here's one thing, I'd like us to consider all the nuances. Andrew Vilenović, chairman of the commission, is one of the most experienced officers among the MPs in Parliament. I am convinced that if he were on his own as a commission, of course, he would have found out all the details long ago if needed. But the thing is, what he's saying is he's being pushed. Let's figure out who's gonna put pressure on Andrija Vilenovich today. Obviously. Those who are not interested in the truth may be pressured to make it public. I don't think I'm opening any secrets here. You can turn to the practice that we had before. We have a parliament that is conditionally divided into two parts: some represent the current power of MPs, and others represent the previous power. And when the initiative raises questions about the substance of matters where the sins of the previous authority are suspected, then the commission’s head is a representative of the MP’s corps, representing the present authority, and vice versa. And here's where it went a little wrong. And today, Andrew Vilenovich is forced to lead a commission that has no interest in his colleagues in the bloc, on the opposition. And that's clear because privatization took place in 2005, when the two governments that had been before had actually managed it and did not help solve it the way we would have wanted it to. So I don't think it would be worth giving an assessment of the discontent of the commission's work, considering this particular situation, this particular situation, and in respect of Andrija Vilenovich, to make a change: Deputy Geller is his replacement, and he's the head of the committee, the commission, to swap them. With all due respect to each other, the friendly work on the committee will be provided, and by the end of May they will answer all the questions. Then there will be no violation of the principle that there are representatives of one faction among the leadership and so forth, that is, all the normative things that follow. And we don't present a claim in this case to Andrija Vilenovich, because he works in these conditions today, he's placed in such conditions. [[I'll give you my word later, yes.]] I think it would be the right decision, and so the draft decision you have would be based on a vote without a second point, without an evaluation, and the appropriate wording would be determined later. Yeah, yeah. There are two projects here. I'm sorry, I was wrong not to mention the matter. That is, the first project is being submitted by the commission itself to the information and obligation to complete the work by May 30 and to provide a final answer to that question. And the other one, the deputy Miroshnichenko brought in. That's absolutely right, I was inaccurate in this case. Here's my offer. But before putting her to the vote, I would like to give the floor to Andri Vilenovich, as he insists on it as head of the committee. Commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! If we want to create an ambiguity situation with you, then, if you will excuse me, Alexander Alexandrovich, we need to implement your proposal, because, as a reminder, the funds from the privatisation of Krivoroztali came in in mid-December 2005 and these funds were spent all of 2006 and there are still unspent funds that the Government was headed by Yuri Ivanovich Ehanurov, the second half by Viktor Fedorović Janukovic. I have questions, for example, why 200 million, which were due no later than 18 March, had not yet been spent before 24 December last year and had not yet been spent. There are obstacles to this and so on. It appears that these funds have not yet been agreed on how to spend. I suggest you don't put our colleague Heller in an awkward position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u39	Well, actually, you could put one of the non-faction deputies, but it's going to be a long time. And I think you feel responsible for yourself, and then Geller feels responsible, and maybe this discussion that's going to be on the committee itself, when one manager heads a period, and then another, at another time, it's going to be able to figure out the truth better. But it's such a thing. So I'd like to work on this pattern, to determine. We can basically take the project that the commission is bringing and then fill in the points that come out of the Peacekeeping project and that's completely in line with what we're doing. I propose to vote on the basis of a draft ruling that is being tabled by the People's Chamber of Shadows. Please, on the ground. Based on the base. [[10:56:22]] For the 18th. A reasonable offer is not accepted. 18 deputies voted in favour. Then I lay the groundwork for the draft decree given by Yuri Miroshnichenko. Yuri Miroshnichenko and Pinchuk I can give Pinchuku Andrija Pavlovich my word, he'll explain it. Please, the basis is the vote. Pinchuck's up, one of the authors. There's Pinchuck, look, the author. [[10:57:06]] For 246 I made an offer like this. May I have your attention, please? The second point is to get out of here, take off, not in time, they're only working for two months. The third paragraph reads as follows: “To elect the head of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the investigation of the costs incurred by the privatisation of VAT by the ‘Criminal State’ of the People's Deputy of Ukraine of Gjellier, by exempting him from the duties of the Head of the Commission of Saintsenko Andrija Vilenović and by appointing him as the Deputy Head of the Commission” – and further, as it is. Is there no objection? It's in the text. Wait a minute! Give Sergei Sass a word so that he can find out what we are doing or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u40	Alexander Alexanderovich, well, I remind you that there is an 88th article, you know very well the Constitution, where you are guided by the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. I've told you from the rostrum that a number of regulations have been violated. And one more thing. In accordance with the 83rd article of the Rules, part three, on the basis of the conclusions, of the proposals of the interim commission of the Supreme Council may make the following decisions: First. To take note of the Commission's proposals, the second is to suspend the commission's mandate, and the third is to continue the work of the Temporary Commission. There is no possibility to discuss personal matters. You want to consider personal matters, make a motion for a ruling before a decision is changed by a commission, include it in the agenda, let committees draw conclusions on this in accordance with the 88th article, include it in the agenda, and please make a decision. I'm telling you, you're breaking the rules. Take it. Cancel the Rules, accept from two parts: the coalition is always right. And the second point is, if the coalition is wrong, then paragraph number one works. And that's the right thing to do, then you'll do it under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u41	We'll think about your offer, but I don't think it's right or necessary. You have just read the rules of the Rules and you have noticed that all these points are provided for in the decree. Vasil Alexiyovich, please, Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u42	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. It's in vain that Sass screams like that. I'm also a member of the regulatory committee, and I say that the previous report of the commission is now under consideration. Previous. I join Sas's suggestions about the impossibility of one faction being two deputies and a leader and a deputy. So for your offer, I support it, we're changing it. Besides, I'm asking. I'm proposing that we remove the point where we consider the work of the commission unsatisfactory, and I ask you to make my proposal, which I have proposed, to entrust the House of Auditors to verify the use of funds, particularly those that have come to. were used in December 2005. It's a fundamental question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u43	All right, let's take into account the proposal for an order to the Court of Auditors, let's pass it on here. I'm going to make my proposal on paragraph two, and then the second one on the basis of the document is going to be the third, the third, the fourth, and so on. I think we can vote. May I? I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:00:59]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. The issue of ratification. We were unable to finish yesterday because of the stress of the day’s order. The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers is under consideration. An important question for Ukraine. The report is made by Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, a representative of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u44	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. On November 24, 1977, the European Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers took effect in Strasbourg. On behalf of Ukraine in Strasbourg, the convention was signed on March 2, 2004. The President of Ukraine is accordingly introducing the draft Law on the Ratification of this Convention. I don't think the people's deputies of Ukraine, the honourable people's deputies, there is a reason or even a need to explain how urgent this problem is. Our citizens, who travel abroad with the intention of working, have no legal basis for protecting them in the event of such a need. It is not enough, therefore, that this convention or the taking effect of this convention for Ukraine will allow us, at the legislative level, to secure the guarantees of respect for the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens abroad, but also to establish the validity of this convention will contribute to the deterrence of our citizens' labour migration journeys by increasing motivation for legal work abroad. It should also be noted, first, that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes this international legal instrument mandatory, it will not require any additional expenditure from our national budget. And secondly, I would also like to point out for the transcript that the Ukrainian side made a warning to article 28 of this convention so that the Ukrainian national deputies, whom I know, would obviously read the text itself, which is the same convention itself, could also take this situation into account when you make the right decision. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u45	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up for your questions, and try to use your time in a concise manner. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u46	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Please tell me that the convention itself does not, in principle, give us any doubt, and here we have decided to support it on the faction, but we have two moments that really do give rise to a warning, and what you've been talking about. How do we get out of this conflict anyway? Medical care. Indeed, we did not sign this agreement and there was no convention that was signed between our States. How will these processes and funding mechanisms be implemented? This is one moment. And second moment. We have a church separated from the state. We make certain obligations under which we are obliged to provide faith or service, so to speak, for those who will work today under this agreement. How will we implement this paragraph? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u47	Of course, since 1953, Ukraine has not signed the European Convention on Social and Medical Assistance, and of course it has not made it compulsory for us. Instead, the reference to this convention does not give any reason to believe that Ukraine will not be able to seek that the States Parties, as one convention and the other, still ensure that in the event that, once again, the need arises, our citizens are assisted accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u48	Fishbowl.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Roman Mikhailovich! Three years as a signed convention and, of course, a faction of the Party of the Regions will assume responsibility to ratify and vote. But please tell me how to reconcile, because you are now representing the President, the guarantor of the Constitution, part three of the convention with article 35 of the Constitution of Ukraine, when part three obliges the State to provide migrant workers, members of their families the possibility of participating in and contributing to worship in accordance with their standards? This does not result, according to the Constitution and article 35, from the duty of the State to promote the service. How can you calm us down here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u50	Dear, you know, sometimes constitutional norms, where language, in particular, you draw attention to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that the state should not interfere with the activities of the church or religious organizations. Instead, to promote the right of Ukrainian citizens to exercise their free right to faith and hope is not the same. That is, the State should of course contribute to allowing Ukrainian citizens to exercise their right freely, rather than to interfere with any or all of the activities of any church or religious organization within the limits established by the current legislation, of course it is a completely different, other, more faithfully, sphere of activity of the State itself. Thus, the principle of separation of the State from the church, I believe, is not violated by this convention. I think it's the testimony that this one is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u51	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u52	This convention is an instrument of the Council of Europe, and it is known that the Council of Europe was created, primarily to protect the rights and freedoms of a citizen or of human rights and freedoms, that there is no violation in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u53	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, you obviously know that by preparing this question today in Western countries: in France, in particular, in Germany, this is a key issue that is leading the electoral campaign, who is, how do we view this problem? And you've obviously noticed that one of the candidates for the presidency of France has received support from the population and, by the way, a sharp increase in the rating due to what limits today the rights of migrants to family reunification and so on and so forth. You know the point of this problem, it's important to those countries. Are there any warnings here that guarantee the protection of the interests of our Ukrainian State, our society, on the one hand? And the second. Here is article 18, Social Security. Does this indicate that immigrants can be guaranteed social security? I would. It's not written here whether or not it's related to pension insurance in the right way. And maybe if this convention is signed by other countries, maybe we have a chance that our people who work abroad today have the ability to do a proper budgeting, to do a pension fund for Ukraine, because they'll come home to live and these funds won't be created. What do you think? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u54	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. First of all, the first question, of course, is that in France this is now very acute. As you know, even there were appropriate normative acts against which women were forbidden to wear clothing that would indicate a certain religious affiliation. Thank God, we're in the middle of this, and I'm going to say this with some sarcasm,'smart democracy' has not come to Ukraine. The convention, on the other hand, is a right, and the States parties to this convention are under an obligation to ensure the right of citizens who go abroad to exercise their religious preferences or beliefs freely. As for the second question, this convention is a framework. However, Ukraine was known to have had the opportunity to sign at least one of these bilateral frameworks based on the framework of the convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u55	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u56	It's with the state of Portugal, where it's much better to write down not only the legal mechanisms for protecting our citizens, but also exactly the social protection mechanisms that you're talking about, especially the pensions you're talking about. Therefore, by joining this convention, there is certainly a expectation that similar bilateral agreements could be signed with other member states of the Council of Europe within the framework of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u57	Right. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Leonid Ivanovich, the co-report, and then we will be determined. Player Leonid Ivanovich is the head of the Human Rights Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u58	Honourable national deputies, in this Hall, and in general in society, have repeatedly discussed the protection of the rights of our citizens working abroad, particularly in the European Union. Virtually everyone is aware of the injustice and plight of the workers. This issue was addressed in a special report by the Chargé d’affaires of Carpathian Nina Ivanovna. All this time, it was stressed that it was necessary to accede to international treaties, to sign bilateral treaties to guarantee the protection of the rights of migrant workers. The European Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers, which I propose to ratify, is such a mechanism. Joining it will create a mechanism to protect the rights of our citizens abroad and to expand the possibilities for legal labour migration by our citizens. In addition, the convention will serve as a basis for further development of the process of signing bilateral agreements, coordinating cooperation between Ukraine and other States in the field of labour migrant rights. Of course it's a convention ratification. Ukraine also commits itself to ensuring the rights of migrant workers from other countries in its territory. And they're attracted to each other by the Chief Science and Technology Administration. At the meeting of the board of directors and individual experts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Justice, we considered very carefully not only the advantages of ratifying the convention but also the risks that might arise, and about which my colleagues asked questions, colleague Ribuk and colleague Matvienkov. The members of the committee and experts unanimously concluded that the issues raised by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration were governed by valid legislation, such as the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. The ratification of the convention will have a positive impact on Ukraine’s external political image, since the rights of Ukrainian migrant workers are thus comparable to those of European Union migrant workers. That's why we're asking for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u59	Thank you. No questions to Leonid Ivanovich? None. Have a seat, please. It is proposed to support the draft Law. I'm sorry. I had spoken before, and I had not seen those who wanted to share in the discussion, for the issue of the deputy was profoundly understood, and there is no doubt that this document should be accepted. I'm voting on the draft Convention Ratification Act, registration number 0063. There's a vote coming. [[11:15:46]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. Draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights concerning the abolition of the death penalty. Roman Mikhailovich Zvarić is invited to the rostrum, the President's representative in the Supreme Council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to start by reminding all of us that in accordance with article 27 of the Constitution, every person has the right to life. I would also like to remind you that in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since December 2000, according to the constitutional submission of the Ukrainian National Deputies, it was recognized that the position of article 24 of the general section of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the relevant articles of a particular part of the Criminal Code were such that they did not correspond to the Constitution, which comes out of the possession of article 27, which I had just talked about. Accordingly, the Constitutional Court obliged the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend not only the Criminal Code but a whole series of legal acts, which was and was made on April 4, 2000. Furthermore, Ukraine has also become party to Protocol No. 6 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms for the abolition of the death penalty since 1983, which has been ratified by the Law of Ukraine on 22 February 2000, as well as Protocol No. 13 of the same Convention, which deals with the abolition of the death penalty under any circumstances ratified by the Law of Ukraine since 28 November 2002. At present, the Criminal Code does not contain such punishment as the death penalty. Therefore, taking into account the foregoing, the President of Ukraine introduced a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights concerning the abolition of the death penalty. Ukraine's accession to this protocol, in the opinion of the President of Ukraine -- I am convinced that this will also be your position, honourable national deputies -- will confirm our commitment to fundamental human rights and freedoms, enhance the authority of the State at the international level and become a logical step in view of Ukraine's commitment to international treaties to which Ukraine is a party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u61	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. It's the committee's idea. Leonid Ivanovich Grac will say it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u62	In implementing article 27 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine acceded to Protocol No. 6 and Protocol No. 13 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms for the abolition of the death penalty in 1983, which de jure, prohibiting the use of the death penalty as a form of punishment. Thereafter, necessary changes were made to national legislation. In fact, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights itself, the protocol to which ratification is proposed, was ratified by Ukraine on October 16, 1983. In doing so, it has been given the opportunity to accede to the relevant protocols to the Covenant. Clearly, the international political and social situation has changed since then, the ban on the death penalty, as a humanitarian step in the European community, has become the norm for the European Union. In response to this, the Second Optional Protocol has been processed and proposed. This protocol definitively consolidates the death penalty ban requirement and addresses until now the unresolved issue of whether it can be applied in the event of a participating country being found in a state of war. By ratifying this protocol, Ukraine has the opportunity to demonstrate the invariability of Ukraine’s positions on ensuring the rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being, particularly the inalienable right to life. That's why the committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u63	Thank you. No questions asked, I see, to Leonid Ivanovich. I have the right to vote on this bill. And I'd like you to support him. Please. [[11:21:30.]] For 207 Who's in charge of voting, please? [[11:21:52]] For 242 The bill is being voted on, please in general. [[11:22:11]] For 241 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration and Social Protection of Migrant Workers is being considered, I understand, the Minister of Social Policy and the work of Natalia Ivanovna Ivanova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration and Social Protection of Migrant Workers of 15 April 1994 is submitted. Since July 1995, an agreement ratified by the Supreme Council on cooperation in the field of labour migration and social protection of migrant workers has been in force in Ukraine, with Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Georgia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Ukraine. The agreement regulates the main directions of cooperation between the parties in the field of labour migration regulations, the activities of migrant workers working outside their own countries, and their social protection. In accordance with the agreement, each party recognizes without further legalization the diploma, the certificate of education, the relevant documents regarding the assignment of titles, discharges, qualifications, and other documents necessary for the pursuit of employment. Migrant workers also benefit from social insurance and social security in accordance with the legislation of the party operating in the territory, unless otherwise provided by special agreements. The practice of applying the said agreement revealed the need to regulate the migration movements of the population outside the border. To this end, on November 25, 2005, in Moscow, the governments of the SND states and the agreement. certain additions have been made to the agreement. The specified protocol amends the agreement in recognition of the need to establish a simplified order of work for foreign workers on the basis of bilateral and multilateral agreements, and also defines the term “foreign worker”. The adoption of the draft law on the ratification of the marked protocol will create favourable conditions for Ukrainian citizens to engage in labour activities in border areas of the States Parties to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration and Social Protection of Migrant Workers, and will contribute to the further development of cooperation between the States parties to the agreement. Please support and ratify the specified protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u65	Thank you. Wait a minute. Any questions? Here's a question in Rizuk and Catherine Simeonna. Please, Rybub.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u66	Thank you. I take it, the honourable reporter, that migration is already the result, and the reason is our economic problems. I remember very well when the head of state, the president, of the orange team, said that every year one million jobs, and we would end all migration and so on. And I hear the word that this is said to be a million jobs a year. So maybe it's too old to ratify it? That's what I'm saying. But the question is in the next. Please provide an explanation regarding the protection of social rights. That the person who migrated there works comes home to receive a pension and housing, whether she pays her taxes or she does. Is Ukraine winning economically here, or is it just protecting the rights of those who do not have a job at home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u67	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich, for asking. The first thing to point out is that migration is a process that is a sign of the democratization of society, the openness and recognition of the freedom of movement of citizens, and these processes will take place. Another question is that Ukraine has to create competitive advantages in its own labour market within countries that would leave our employees to work in our businesses and not leave their own homes. As for the protection of the country, the parties to the agreements. They set out social protection rules, including social insurance, pension insurance, non-countries on the basis of employment in the country when returning home. And the agreements mentioned are also being drawn up and there are valid agreements, and there are agreements that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Catherine Semenovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u69	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Of course, we will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Natalie Ivanovna, but I have such a painful question. I realize that the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova is not a recognized republic, but 30 percent of Ukrainians live there. And I'm daily, believe me, I'm dating that the diplomas I get, by the way, at Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka University of Tiraspol are not recognized in our state. It's a very big tragedy when people come from there to the Odessa region, the Herson region, the Mikolai region, and they're told that you should go back to higher education and get your diplomas. Natalia Ivanovna, there are our compatriots, there are Ukrainians who are soul and heart with us. Tell me, I know you're a responsible person, that you're really a patriot of Ukraine, but how can we get our fellow countrymen out of Transnistria? We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u70	Thank you, Catherine Semenovna, for this question and for appreciating my work. Some of the questions of recognition, let's say, States and the creation of bilateral relations between these states are probably not really up to me. So is the question of recognition of educational documents. The document I report today addresses the issue of recognition of educational documents, although it should be noted that the problem of recognition of educational documents exists, including in relations with European countries. And these processes, they have to be regulated, they have the Ministry of Education working on them. And even yesterday, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, reporting on the ratification of one of the agreements, stopped on this issue. I think the government will take all possible diplomatic action to resolve these processes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please. And to avoid conflict after your question, we will understand that the Ukrainians live there so that the leaders of neighbouring nations do not think that we are extending the category of fellow countrymen to the citizens of their countries. That's another offer, please. Leonid Ivanovich Grac from the committee will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u72	The agreement on cooperation in labour migration and social protection for migrant workers of 15 April 1994 is an agreement between the participating countries, I stress, the SND, called upon to determine the legal status of migrant workers while they are in the territory of the participating States and to establish a mechanism for their social protection during their work. In fact, the agreement is a fundamental international, within the framework of the SND, document that protects the labour rights of our citizens, particularly in the large number that operates in Russia, Belarus and Moldova. The agreement is multifaceted, its standards apply to pension, health care, taxation, etc. But until then, it had a legal gap, which has been brought to the attention of virtually all the participating states, which relates to non-regulation within the SND, especially the legal status of migrant workers living and working abroad and forced to cross the border every day. It is understandable that, in view of the foregoing, it is appropriate to establish a legal regime that would simplify as much as possible the formalities associated with the crossing of the border, the registration and other features of their legal status. The solution to this issue and the dedicated standards proposed for ratification of the protocol. I urge you all to support the ratification of the protocol, thus facilitating the lives of hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u73	Any questions? I won't. Thank you. You can put it to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. Please, there's a vote. [[11:33:02]] For 245 Decision taken. We need to address the issue of the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the relevant document, the Supreme Council's Order, for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. I ask you to support the inclusion in the order of the day of this matter. [[11:33:43]] For 236 Decision taken. In this regard, the minister for the family, youth, and sports, Victor Petrovich Korz, please. To make the image of Ukraine sound better, people need to listen to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u74	Honorable leadership of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies. As you know, Ukraine, together with the Republic of Poland, is participating in the European Football Association's tender for the right to hold the final Euro-2012. The European Football Championship is the third most important sporting event in the world since the Olympic Games and the World Cup of Football. It lasts three weeks. Sixteen of Europe’s top teams are participating in the championship, and thirty - one matches are being played, selling 1.3 million tickets, and direct broadcasts are being watched by about 5 billion viewers. Twenty-four teams can participate, and then all of these are increasing. Our competitors in the second stage of the tender are Hungary with Croatia, joint application, and Italy. During the first stage of the tender in 2005, we were able to bypass countries such as Azerbaijan, Greece, Russia, Romania, and Turkey. Each candidate has his own strengths and weaknesses. But I can assure you that Ukraine and Poland have come closer to victory than ever before. By the time the UEFA winner was declared, there was a little more than one month left. By April 17 in Cardiff, Wales, the official Ukraine and Poland, headed by the presidents of both countries, will be taking part in this initiative. And in the morning of April 18, the results of the final tender will be known. Given the value of this tournament, the criteria for participating in the tender are very harsh. UEFA sent its demands to each candidate. In Ukraine and Poland, cities were defined on a competitive basis to accept the Euro-2012: on the Ukrainian side these are Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Lviv, Odessa and Kharkiv, and cities such as Warsaw, Gdansk, Poznan, Wroclaw, Khodzów and Kraków are participating in the tender. The Ministry, youth, sport and the Ukrainian Football Federation, together with the central and local executives, the local self-governance authorities, prepared first- and second-stage files, presentations by candidate cities, 25 forms of guarantees, where there are open questions about the readiness of airports, stadiums, hotels, mobility concepts, medical and tourism concepts, and the concept of placement of participants. On February 15, the contracts signed and the latest additional materials transferred to UEFA headquarters. The last bricks were left to lay on the foundation of our victory in the tender. The above-mentioned final presentation in Cardiff and the Ukraine Act on the organisation and the final part of the Euro-2012 tournament, which I would like to present to you for your consideration. The bill was prepared to carry out the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine as a special working group with the participation of the Ministry of Justice and other central executive bodies. I am grateful to all who have worked on it for a long time, analyzed the compliance of existing legislation with UEFA requirements, and developed proposals for harmonization. This law is called upon to become a central element of the Euro-2012 final part of the system. One of the mandatory conditions for participation in the tender is the high level of political support for this action in the candidate countries. During a survey visit to Ukraine and Poland in September 2006, UEFA accepted President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council Alexander Moroz and Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Tobacco. All of them were unanimous in the Euro-2012 assessment as a unique opportunity to make a breakthrough in the socio-economic development of our country. The adoption of a special law reinforces this political support, strengthens the guarantees signed previously by the central executive authorities and regulates: first, visa regime, movement through foreign exchange customs borders, protection of UEFA intellectual property rights, order of circulation of tickets during the championship period, exemption from import duties of certain categories of goods to be imported into Ukraine by tournament participants. In the first phase of 2005, Ukraine’s largest political parties supported the European Championship in Ukraine and Poland and signed an appropriate guarantee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Euro-2012 is not really a football event. This is a comprehensive action recognized by a world brand that can be used by a particular country for its purposes in agreement with UEFA. Countries are interested in carrying out this exercise and earning profits from the service of tourists, the inflow of investments, advertising, the use of the legacy that remains after the Euro. For her part, UEFA is interested in conducting this tournament at the best level, profiting from ticket sales, rewards from sponsors, while protecting its marketing and copyright rights. To balance the interests of the parties and to provide the necessary guarantees and to make cooperation a mutually beneficial and called draft law that is now before you. Preparation for the final part of the 2012 European Championship requires considerable financial resources. By 2010, stadiums or remodeled stadiums should be built in the cities where the planning is to be carried out. In Kiev, this is the National Olympic Sports Complex. The new stadiums are already being built in Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk, Odessa’s “Black Sear” stadium, Lviv’s new stadium will be built at the expense of the local budget and also renovated in the city of Kharkiv. One of the weak points of the Ukrainian-Polish application is the hotels. Unlike our competitors, the hotel and tourist infrastructure in Ukraine is very weak. In the candidate cities in Ukraine it will certainly be necessary to build an additional number. Continuing the tourist theme, I would like to point out that in the event of the Euro-2012 event in Ukraine and Poland, about 400,000 people are forecasting to come to our country to see matches. foreign tourists for three weeks. As a result of the average cost of a tourist’s stay of $400 a day, the total amount of goods and services consumed by tourists will be 3.2 billion. United States dollars. The Euro-2012 will greatly increase the investment attractiveness of Ukraine in the eyes of representatives of international business circles, to which our country is so eager. In line with the findings of Munich’s Institute of Economic Research, the 2006 World Championship will have a positive effect for 15 years. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded with some remarks to the bill, which we plan to work on for a second reading. In concluding my statement, I would like to ask all of you to support the draft Supreme Council Resolution on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u75	Thank you. I don't think there's any questions, right? Yes, there is. Well, please sign up for the question. Yeah, 10 minutes. Tsapuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u76	Sergei Petrovich! Stepan Capuk, Party of Regions. Victor Petrovich, I'm sorry. I will support this bill, but I have a question. Football players, young football players in Alexandria every year participate in the Ukraine High League Championships among juniors and have been champions for almost a few years, that is to say, they have won “gold” on many occasions, “silver”. Unfortunately, however, when Ukraine is formed among the juniors of the High League, these football players do not go there. Here's a question. And what do these guys do when they're due, they're running out of age, like, prospective guys, to go somewhere? We were. To get out of this situation started. reported in the Second Professional League. There was money. Last year, there was a new bowl head, net money -- net prospects for the kids. Tell me, please, when will they have the prospect of going to the senior junior league for Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u77	I thank you for the question, but I do not think it is entirely relevant to the subject of my statement, but I would like to say that the Ukrainian Football Federation has developed a programme approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on the development of football in our country. Our ministry is doing its best to support this sport, but of course, the way the championship is conducted, the definition of the compositions of the assembled teams is the prerogative of the Ukrainian Football Federation. And I think we need to carry out further consultations, clarify the situation specifically related to your question. And I think the Football Federation with our participation will find a solution to the issues that you have asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u78	Hope is, isn't it? Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Victor Petrovich, well, the idea itself is very good, and we're all patriots, and we'd like very much to go to the final championship, of course, in Ukraine. Your calculations are good, everyone likes them. But please tell me, are we not in a hurry with this law? Is it possible that the adoption of this law gives you additional arguments at the time of the tender? Is that one situation? And another situation: if we adopt the law and the tender -- well, there's trouble -- we didn't win, what are we going to do with this law: are we going to cancel or what will be the fate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u80	I understand. The point is that the bill provides for it to enter into force in the event of our victory. That is, if such a sad situation happens, it loses its relevance. But I hope so much for our victory, and we all understand that this will not only promote the promotion of sport in our country, but this will be a tremendous impetus for the development of our infrastructure: networks, roads, services and so forth. It's going to be a tremendous boost in the development of our economy. So I hope very much for victory, and the support of the Supreme Council, at least on the first reading, is going to be an additional factor that will contribute to the consideration of this issue, I hope, in our favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u81	I understand that we're looking at the law in the first reading, first. For the second reading, if you could imagine that we forgot to write about this norm and did all that was provided for in the law and didn't even win the tender, that would be a good thing. But we have to expect to win and people will see football in Ukraine. And tourists will bring in some coins that will remain there in Ukraine. I mean, it's not bad in general. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, I would like to express my opinion on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u82	I, Victor Petrovich, would like to ask you this question using the opportunity and presence of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Roman Zvaric. I have great doubts that we will be able to conduct this training properly and win the competition. Look, we have President Yushchenk's extreme negative on the issue of the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of our airports. I'll tell you the truth, if someone, God forbid, gets to Boryspol and they're going to have luggage in there, we're not going to make money on it, we're all going to pay for it from our last pants. That's the first question: why is there such a negative attitude towards airport reconstruction when we have 2012 on the threshold? That's the first question. And the second question is, will it help to strengthen the material and technical base of this bill as a whole in the field of highway, rail? People will come to us with something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u83	Of course, there are tremendous numbers of problems, and I would say that the construction of the world level of stadiums also seemed to us. proved impossible, but today the construction of such stadiums is on its way. I, Mr. Dry, like you, am a great optimist. I believe in our victory, first of all, and I believe that the troubles and differences that are today will be overcome, and our nation will go through the path of awakening, prosperity and constructiveism. So I think we have to believe in victory and our powerful capacities, our opportunities for co-operation and the solutions to these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u84	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u85	The thing is, Catherine Semenovna Samolik has a very big kick in football, and she says she's one minute short. I give her my minute, and she's after her. So for two minutes we'll listen to the wise woman who will advise you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u86	Thank you very much for your statement. Alexander Petrovich, I want to tell you, I don't think we need to adjust to the fact that we don't play the tender, because in the past call, you and I have adopted a resolution, we have already made an application to participate, so that we can actually become the capital of the 2012 European Championship. But the main thing is, there's going to be stadiums, there's going to be hotels, there's going to be a lot of other things. And I see in the adoption of this law, on the contrary, as an incentive for us to work harder to create our sport base, our special economy, and so forth. Moreover, I want to say that we are at the right time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u87	Let him answer the question, then she'll ask again. And then she'll ask again. Answer this part. Oh, that argument was a question. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u88	I think the bill is very timely. And I want to contact you, Victor Petrovich. I was a witness, a direct participant, as we were working on the Athens Olympics, and you know what the results are. It was a breakthrough. And only because the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have made an effort. And I think in the new political environment the same thing will be done. Please tell me, which of us today, the Cabinet of Ministers do you represent today, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, more concrete measures are needed to ensure that the law is not general and not only for those who come, but for the law to work for the development of football and for the image of our state? What should we and your ministry do?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u89	Dear Catherine of Simeon. In fact, we realize that the vast majority of our achievements are really linked to such synchronous cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. I would like to point out that this law has a very specific meaning and is aimed at winning our, first of all, tender. And secondly, to create an enabling environment for preparation. And you are certainly absolutely right that adopting this law and winning it will give us the opportunity, for example, to apply for global games from the Olympics for 2013 for serious competitions in the future. It's not a secret that in 15 years of independence we haven't had any Olympic sports championships in the world, because we don't have a sports, material and technical base with the infrastructure. So the tremendous number of problems that we still want to put before the Supreme Council, and we look forward to your support, including for this bill, as well as for those that have already adopted the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u90	Victor Petrovich, as the question is being resolved, would you please tell the deputies about the construction of the area in front of the stadium?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u91	If you can, as a citizen, as a football and sports fan in general, I think it's a decision to build in front of the National Olympic Sports Complex, I think it's a crime in front of the Chinese, before the sports, before the future Euro-2012. But from a legal point of view there's a very difficult and not simple situation, a very sad situation, the permission to build data was legitimate, but I can't even pick up that argument right now and a word that would characterize what's going on in our sports circles and how it's being discussed today. It's a disgraceful situation and a disgrace, I can't tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u92	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u93	I'd like to make an ad today, with the opportunity, the first in the time of independence of the world's cup of art gymnastics, to which the world-class stars from 42 countries have come. We invite you, it'll be a beautiful holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Ravil Safiullin, deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, will now say the committee's opinion and we will offer him our condolences for the unfortunate failure of yesterday's Shaktar. Because it really upsets us, we have to say. So the game was in a second time brilliant and then such an ostrich. Well, you just can't pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u95	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. The distinguished Alexander Alexandrovic, distinguished people's deputies, the relevant committee considered the bill at its meeting on 6 March and unanimously decided to support it and to ask you, in turn, to support it on first reading. As our Minister of Sport said, the bill, its adoption, is a prerequisite for the preparation of the tender, which will take place on 18 April. There are a number of issues that will naturally be taken into account in the preparation and adoption of the second reading. I would like to say that holding such a forum for any country is a great honour. That's why I have the most compelling request to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u96	Thank you. Any questions? Alexander Pecklesenko has a question. Please have one question, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u97	The faction of the regions, Alexander Pecklusenko. I don't have as many questions as the line, Alexander Alexandrovich, and not to the rapporteur, but to all of us. The tender that we must go through includes many standards under the so-called Euro Standard brand, which necessarily includes issues of economic, political and social stability. If we now have a breakthrough in economic stability, in the situation we see in this room, we will never win a tender. So if we want, and I don't think there's one person who wouldn't want this contest to happen, this kind of sport is in Ukraine. We have to get started. We must declare a moratorium on politics in this Hall and there will be political calm in Ukraine, we will win this tender.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u98	I can have two words. I want to tell you, Alexander Nikolayevich, this was actually a basketball game yesterday. Our deputies, representatives of various factions, went to Lviv and played basketball. In fact, sport is not my word, it is Caberten who said: “Sport is the world!” You know, he really does unite. And your proposal is really business-oriented and I think the right half should listen and not be there today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u99	Alexander Mikolayovich, it's gonna be okay. Elections in 2011 and football in 2012. We'll come in strong and everything will be in order. Please have a seat, thank you. My word is Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we had a public debate the day before this question was discussed, where the professional football league Ravil Safovich represents, and the Football Federation, which Gregory Surkis represents, has been actively discussing this issue. And, of course, today's vote is very important in this kind of, I would say, ideological, worldview plan. But what I'd like to say is that when we discussed this issue and on the committee, very important things, our appeal to the government to get the second reading of the State Department of Resort and Tourism and the Ministry of Finance, because there are questions about economic calculations. We realize that we don't just promote football, we want to raise the country economically and make money in the budget. Here, I think we can say that at the moment these calculations raise some doubts. Economists estimate that we invest 4 billion 880 million, we get it! And we put in 4 billion 424. So in the dry balance, we make 456 million dollars. How do you know that? Billions of dollars are made of such measures. Obviously, we don't have any work to do here. So the position of the committee was as follows. Between the first and the second readings, right now, we're going to involve the customs professionals, the Minneconomys, the Minfinans to see where we have the gaps, to look at the pay-per-view. The premium portion is projected to be more than three billion rubles. Customs have to tell us if we're guaranteed here so there's no abuse, because that's just as serious a question. So what I wanted to point out in principle is that, aside from ideological imagery, we have to think about citizens and the economy. Considering that this is not a regular bill, I have decided for myself that I am also voting in favour of this bill to demonstrate that in the future the entire session room should generally support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u101	I have no reason not to put it to the vote right now. All the reflections in the questions made their own. I see no one wants to discuss it further. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the first reading of the adoption of the Act on, say, the European Football Championship in 2012 in Kiev. I'll put it to the vote. [[11:58:47]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. And I'm meeting with the president of UEFA today. I think that's just going to be a good argument for a conversation. Thank you, too, for having such an attitude. There's a break for half an hour, please. ..to get it right away. [[11:59:41]] For 240 240 deputies have been asked to work without interruption. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u102	Let us go to the chapter “Review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Act "On the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine" is being complied with with with with by the President. [[Registration number 2477]] Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please. Get ready for the Samuelenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to state that the President of Ukraine fully supports the need to address issues related to the definition of the activity itself and, in particular, to part of the official discipline of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. This is precisely the area that is important for the President of Ukraine, as evidenced by the fact that the President of Ukraine has initiated the withdrawal of this structure from the control of the Ukrainian security service in order to ensure normal functioning without any political interference or other interference with the work of this dual service. Instead, the law that came to the President's signature could not be signed for the following reasons. First, the law, which is under consideration, clearly does not determine the legal status of the service itself, which in turn, according to the President of Ukraine, makes it impossible to resolve the issues that arise from it. Under such circumstances, an attempt to resolve the above legal issues will not contribute to the establishment of internal relations, that is, the service, the provision of law and order, the prevention of wrongdoing, and the conscientious performance of employees in the service of their duties. It should also be noted that the law under consideration, contrary to article 92, paragraph 22, of the Constitution of Ukraine, does not clearly determine the extent to which persons of primary rank who have the right to give orders and orders, to apply encouragement and to impose disciplinary obligations, contains clear mixed positions regarding the application of disciplinary fees. As a result of what I said earlier, taking into account this situation, it is the coworkers of this service who refuse to obey the illegal commands of their leadership that could be the victims of certain political persecutions in the event of the imprecise setting of the standards that I speak of. In the end, the President of Ukraine also notes that legal shortcomings can endanger the public service, both in general and during a special period, especially in military conditions, do not give God, or a state of emergency in the event of such an emergency. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u104	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. No questions? Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee. Please, the first deputy head of the Committee on Safety and Defence, Yuri Pavlovich Samylenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u105	Deputies! At its meeting, the Profile Committee considered the comments made by the President to the Ukrainian Act on the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Relations and Protection of Information of Ukraine, which was drafted in accordance with article 10, part six, of the relevant Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information of Ukraine. I report that the Act was passed on 28 March 2006 without any comments or suggestions. And comments and suggestions. And by the way, he was visited and agreed with Minusto, and Mr. Zvaric was then Minister. These comments and proposals arose 11 months after the signing of the Act. Thus, article 10, part 6, of the law we have adopted, states that the right to serve by members of the State Service must be governed by a disciplinary statute, which is approved by a separate law before you today. Literally a few words on the need to enact this law. As is known, the State Affairs Service is based on the Department of Special Telecommunications Systems and Information Protection of the Ukrainian Security Service. By 1 January 2007, the Ukrainian Act on the Disciplinary Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine had been applied to members of the Department's HFS and, after their appointment to the State Service, that disciplinary statute no longer applied to them. This practically excludes the establishment of an adequate level of discipline in the State Service, which may create preconditions for destabilizing the management process in all areas, leading to inadequate performance of the tasks and functions of the Service, including non-conformity with the military and public authorities in the performance of tasks during a special period. I am no longer talking about the preconditions for the vulnerability and security of the system of protection of State secrets. The law defines the essence of performance discipline, the way it is achieved, the rights and responsibilities of members of the regular and senior staff. The adoption of the law will ensure the rule of law in the service, help prevent offences, educate individuals of high moral and business character. Having discussed the proposal of the President of Ukraine for the law under consideration, the members of the Committee unanimously, I stress, approved the decision on their support and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it in a new manner, taking into account all the President's proposals and taking into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of the law would not require additional costs from the State budget. Regarding the first comment made by Mr. Zvarić on what was the basis of the law. A vague definition of the Law on the Service of Specialization and Protection of Information on the Legal Status of the State Service, we are saying that today we are considering a disciplinary statute rather than the legal status of the law adopted 11 months ago. I thank you for your attention and ask for your support for the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u106	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, raise your hands, which one of you is using the "Statka" device. Clearly, how should we vote for the law? Please prepare for the vote. Two proposals will be voted on. The first is the President's proposal, which Roman Mikhailovich spoke of. The President proposes rejecting the Act on the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information. Registration number 2477. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:08:37]] For-0 This proposal is not supported. She didn't get a response. Now I'm voting on a proposal from a profile committee that took into account all the president's comments and prepared a new editorial that takes into account the President's proposals. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law “On the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information”, taking into account all the President's proposals. Registration number 2477. Please vote. [[12:09:27]] For 244 Thank you, the law has been passed. We'll expect his signature. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on energy conservation measures, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 09431. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please. Prepare Panasovski from the committee. Release Roman Mikhailovich. No, Nina Ivanovna must have held back a bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, allow me only a brief replica of the President's proposal to reject the law itself regarding the previous law. If that was the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I welcome you. This is the first time. And secondly, I would also like to ask Adam Ivanovich that, obviously, what comes out of the previous law is that the committee has made a different decision than what was taken when the President's representative was present at the meeting of the PIC, and I would therefore ask that the President of Ukraine be informed in such cases of what is going on, where other decisions are made by those who were previously taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u108	Roman Mikhailovich, do you mean the previous law?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u109	Of course. There was another decision, Adam Ivanovich, on the profile committee when I myself took part in this meeting at the direction of the President of Ukraine. I'm sorry for these kind of emergency trailers on my part, but I had to say it. Now, as far as I'm concerned, respectable colleagues, the Ukrainian Act of Amendments to Certain Laws. Ukraine's legislative acts to stimulate energy conservation measures adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 22nd last year. This law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. First, the first section of the Act provides for the creation of a State Budget General Fund called the State Energy Conservation Fund. This situation, according to the President of Ukraine, is not in line with part four of article 13 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which stipulates that the distribution of the budget to the general and special funds is exclusive, I stress, exclusively by the State Budget Act of Ukraine, not by a separate law. Secondly, the law that has been signed provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income, which is proposed to include in the group of four core funds separate types of energy-saving equipment based on the list established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In particular, it is about depreciating the funds of the enterprises involved. The proposal to define the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a list of types of equipment for which it is to be applied and whether other depreciation rules do not comply, according to the President of Ukraine, with the requirements of part three of the first article of the Ukrainian Act on Taxation System, which specifies that the rates of taxation mechanisms and compulsory payments and tax benefits cannot be established or amended by other laws other than those on taxation. In addition, the introduction of such a situation will reduce the income of enterprises from which budgeting is made. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes that paragraph 2 of chapter 5 of the first law be deleted. Third. Under the third paragraph of the fifth section of the first law under consideration, it is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Act on Taxation of Enterprise Income with a provision whereby 25 per cent of the amount of income tax payable to enterprises using equipment that operates on non-traditional sources of energy produces alternative fuels remains at the disposal of these enterprises. And the order in which the funds are accounted for and used is proposed to grant this right to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the President of Ukraine, this situation is not in line with part one of the first article of the second Ukrainian Taxation System Act, which states that, under taxation and assembly, compulsory payments to budgets and state-owned trust funds should be understood as a mandatory contribution to the budget of the relevant level or State target fund, carried out by payers in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in the Ukrainian Tax Laws. Moreover, the law does not set clear criteria for the application of such benefits. And the right to determine the enterprises to which it will expand is given to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which, of course, creates a basis for a corrupt situation. And in view of that, the President of Ukraine proposes that paragraph 3 of chapter 5 of the first law be deleted. Four. Under the fifth paragraph of the first section of the Act, the second part of article 17 of the Energy Savings Act is proposed in a new edition, which provides that, for overspent fuel and energy resources, over the set standards for the consumption of fuel and energy consumption are paid by the assembly for 200 per cent of the cost of spent resources. Such a congregation by its legal nature, according to the President of Ukraine, is indeed a financial sanction. And it's hard to disagree with the President of Ukraine here. In this regard, the President of Ukraine proposes that section 7 of the First Law of Ukraine be deleted. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u110	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Will there be questions? Fishcat, they do. Please, Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u111	Thank you. Rybuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Roman Mikhailovich! Often speaking from the faction “Our Ukraine” and rightly, let us keep the head of state from various accusations, he is indeed a guarantor of the Constitution. But look, the President is now proposing and devoting this law to changing the concept of “rational use and economics of fuel-energy resources” to “effective use of fuel-energy resources”. Firstly, I am an economist, and I understand that the issue of “effective” refers more to production. And the question of “rational” and “economic” is about energy conservation and so on. That's not right. But if so, it was not possible for the Office of the President to agree on the matter, to find it out and not take it all the way to the rostrum, and to spend time discussing the understandable apparatus today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u112	It was precisely, Mr. Sergio, that question you were raising that was exactly a mistake by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not by the President of Ukraine. Thank God that the President of Ukraine drew the attention of the country’s distinguished national deputies to this mistake. I didn't want to "wash" as they say, sorry for such a non-parliamentary expression, "nose" to the Ukrainian people's deputies and draw your attention to it. But you did it very successfully yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u113	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. And one more, so to speak, is what is meant by "or could not". We couldn't, because it's not provided for by the Constitution. They cannot negotiate with each other the Secretariat of the President and the Supreme Council, because there is a legislative procedure that is enshrined in the Constitution, which we follow with you. So we can't make arrangements here. Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Please, Panasovski Oleg Grigorovich, Head of the Subcommittee, Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u114	Comrades, I will be extremely brief. This bill has been reviewed three times in this sessional room, and throughout this period the bill has undergone many changes, adjustments and refinements. And after taking into account and adopting all the amendments, the recommendations, the harmonization of positions on all disputed projects, were endorsed by the relevant committee and recommended for adoption as a whole. May I remind you that, in reporting on this bill, I have noted an disproportionately high level of energy intensity of GDP and low energy efficiency in the production of energy resources in Ukraine, compared with the economically developed countries of the world, are the main and major causes of the crisis in the Ukrainian economy. He noted global trends in the development and implementation of energy-saving technologies and the search for alternatives to what is the basis of the current energy economy, reported and summarized the need for an effective public energy management system for Ukraine. The need for national energy saving policies and the need for existing legislation in the field of energy conservation in accordance with the economic situation in the country. This bill pursues these objectives and ensures the rational use of energy savings in Ukraine. In December last year, the bill was passed by the majority of members of the people's deputies as a whole, but did not come into force because of proposals made by the President of the country. I can report responsibly, in considering these proposals, on the basis of moral and ethical considerations, the relevant committee has shown the highest degree of correctness and respect for the Presidential opinion and has taken a balanced, agreed, constructive decision to adopt all the President's proposals without change in its drafting. There is reason to adopt the bill in its final form, as a law as a whole. A law that ensures the fulfilment of the tasks of special State importance. I request all the people's deputies to support the decision of the Committee and to vote actively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u115	Thank you, sit down, please. Although the basic laws should be similar to “energy conservation” and so on, because we create laws around every problem, we have thousands and thousands of them. As you have heard, the committee has taken into account all the President's proposals. So I am voting in favour of the Ukrainian Law “On Making Changes to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, ” taking into account all the President’s proposals. [[on energy conservation measures]] 0941 Bill. Please vote. [[12:22:02]] For 242 Thank you. The law was passed taking into account the President's proposals. The Act on Antarctic Activities, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is under consideration. [[Registration number 0810]] A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, reports. Get ready for Samilak. Perhaps in every convocation we adopt such a law and have a veto on that law. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u116	Yes, unfortunately, Adam Ivanovich and the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the situation with this law is just such that there is no way we can accept it, because the proposals of the President of Ukraine to this law, which was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine earlier, were not fully taken into account. In view of this situation, the President of Ukraine proposes some basic observations to this law and finally proposes to reject this law with the very purpose of making such a law that does not only correspond to the interests of our State, but also to the various international legal instruments, such as the Antarctic Treaty, the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources since the 1980s, the Protocol on the Protection of the Environment to the Antarctic Protocol of 1991 and other such legal instruments, which are also part of our national legislation. I would like to remind you that the main remarks of the President of Ukraine are that of the following positions. First. According to part two of article 4 of the Antarctic Treaty, no action or activity that takes place while this treaty remains valid does not provide a basis for claims of maintenance or denial of any claim to territorial sovereignty in Antarctica. At the same time, the law that came upon the signature contained positions that could be viewed as extending the sovereignty of Ukraine to Antarctica. In particular, the preamble to the law stipulates that it lays down the legal principles of Antarctic activities under the jurisdiction of Ukraine for the purpose of providing Ukraine in Antarctica. Again, this clearly shows that we are not attacking our territory, that is, trying to extend the jurisdiction of the rule of law outside our territory. In addition, the law extends the legislation of Ukraine to Antarctica, which is contrary to international law. It's different. The law under consideration does not provide for effective mechanisms to ensure coordination of the activities of various public authorities and scientific institutions, to reconcile their interests, and to make effective use of the budget allocated for Antarctic activities. Third. Article 18 of the Ukrainian law sets out general principles for the protection of the Antarctic environment, which in fact merely repeat international requirements in this area. Yet their implementation is not defined in the law. Fourth. The law went on to determine that the representatives of Ukraine in international Antarctic organizations and the inspectors were appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this connection, the President of Ukraine notes that according to article 2 of the Ukrainian legislation on Antarctic activities, which, inter alia, consists of me of the already listed international legal instruments, it is determined that each party, and the party is not the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as a government party to these treaties, these international conventions are the State of Ukraine, has the right to be a member of the committee and to appoint its own representative. Under these circumstances, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine cannot order the appointment of such representatives, since according to the Constitution of Ukraine this is the exclusive right of the President of Ukraine. And five. It is important for Ukraine, as a country party to the international treaties listed, to address a number of issues, such as ensuring access to relevant information on Antarctic research, the identification of permits to carry out such activities and so forth. Yet the law does not allow Ukraine to fulfil its international obligations. I would like to point out once again that in my proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in line with the veto, the President points out that these issues need to be addressed. However, in addition to a conscientious understanding of this responsibility by the President of Ukraine, he claims that this law does not carry out this basic task. In this regard, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law in order to pass a separate law that would actually carry out this task that I am talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u117	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. I think we're clear. He wants to ask you a question. We promised him the previous law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u118	Dear Roman Mihajlovich, I would like to ask you not so much about this law but about the current practice of interaction between the Presidential Administration and the Supreme Council. If you can, in two words, tell me what practice there is, do you have an analysis of the impact of this work? If the law went to the President's Administration, is it a separate group working specifically under the law or is there a direction? After you have detected a discrepancy, do you work with the legislative initiative subject directly through the committee, directly with the deputy, with the Cabinet of Ministers? So, what's the practice? We can't play ping-pong with you all the time, because, in a figurative way, the mineral is wrong once, after every mistake a surgeon has left a mark on his heart. I think that the unadopted law is also the marriage of our work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u119	The honourable colleague here, indeed, should be much closer coordination between the Secretary of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine when appropriate bills are being discussed so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can participate in the discussion of the President of Ukraine. To this end, even though this has not yet been established, and to some extent it may be somewhat unusual for the deputy corps, the President of Ukraine will be proposing his comments and expressing his views in the order of legislative initiatives to separate draft laws that are being considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there will be a request, and we hope that Ukraine's national deputies will still respond positively to this request so that a representative or a designated authorized person can be given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u120	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u121	To express the position of the President of Ukraine in discussing the relevant draft laws in their first reading mode. I assure you that every legal act that emerges from the walls of Parliament or from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a subject of careful consideration in the Office of the President of Ukraine, and it involves not only the opinion of individual national deputies, but also the examination of the transcript when the relevant bill is being discussed, joins the materials that are at the table of the President of Ukraine, the conclusions of individual revenges, including individual ministries, if they come along, and separate public organizations. That is, when each decision is made, there is a careful work to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u122	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. I think we've been happy to hear about this offer. It would be very good, the more there is an appropriate article, if I'm not mistaken, the 34th Rules, which say that the President of Ukraine and the other persons listed by him or her, or the President, or the person authorized by him, have a guaranteed right to speak out on all the issues discussed that relate to their authorization. And since everything we're discussing is about the President's powers, because he then signs the laws, no doubt at any time whoever I'm authorized by the President will have such a right, such an opportunity, and it would be appropriate for us to do so in order to take the previous one into account. That's a very good offer. And I, for example, am the absolute proponent of it, all the more so as I am the right norm of the Rules. Thank you, have a seat, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u124	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sergei Mikolaiovich. And your offer. He is the head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u125	The proposal is so good that the President needs to write, sign laws, and the Supreme Council has done nothing at all. I want to say this is the second veto of the President. Next time we beat the President's veto with 381 votes. Once again, 381 votes. Once again, this is the bill of Tarasjuka. Well, that's what everyone's talking about. What I'm trying to say is this law is essentially ours. harmonises our national and international legislation with those agreements that have been signed. There is no obsession with sovereignty. It's all nonsense that puts no one in the hands of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to see the signature of the man who recommitted this bill. I want to give only to all of you, the country's distinguished national deputies, information, I will not take long to take up the time: 47 active stations, only 19 working throughout the year, including the Ukrainian “Academic of Vernadian”. It's the best. Our scientists. And the President invites us to create a separate body. There's scientific research going on. And our research, our discoveries are recognized worldwide. We don't need an extra organ and spend money on it. At our station, everyone who arrives gets excited and says there is no better. Last year there was also an English princess, Anna, who gave the highest marks. I want to emphasize once again, Ukraine is implementing all the agreements, all the international agreements in this area, but we are not planting this territory, we are simply bringing national legislation into line with those international treaties that have been signed and ratified in our country. And that's why I want to say one thing. I want to see that person who wrote the first veto, 381 votes over the veto, 2nd veto, I want to see him. Adam Ivanovich, and all that others say is not true. We have on the committee, and our colleagues are going to lie down, both from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and from the President's Administration, and our public advisers, and public organizations, and so on, and so forth, and so much opposition and outrage, as under this law, I have not seen. People ask the question, the state is out of time, there are no problems except this problem. So I don't want to be emotionally trimming my energy anymore, and I'm proposing to beat the President's veto. And those who do not consider it necessary to overcome it will not be able to overcome it, and that is how Ukraine is treated, the state is treated, and the country’s public interests are addressed. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u126	Thank you, Catherine Seed. If our stations are better, why do they need the law? To be even better, right, Catherine Seed, right. Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. There are two suggestions that unfortunately do not receive support. The first proposal is the President's proposal to reject the Antarctic Act, 0810 Bill number. I'd like to make up my mind. Mikhail Vasilovich had a helper, an assistant. [[12:36:54]] For-0 Not supported. And the offer of a profile committee is to beat the veto. Let's do it. [[12:37:23]] For 240 240. I need another 160 votes. Oh, sorry, 60 votes. 60 votes. We'll get them, but the law is outlawed. Didn't the beaters make it? We'll make it. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, with proposals from the President, is under consideration. Registration number 0915. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric reports. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Let me begin by saying that the President of Ukraine is in principle in the position that the savings that have been lost by the citizens of Ukraine that have arisen in connection with known circumstances must be returned. However, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine is going to take this seriously, not to make a big deal of a decision on this issue, then this must be decided in accordance with the procedure defined by the legislation and, in particular, by the Code of Budget. Because in order to be able to pay back the budget or use the budget to settle the debt in this respect, of course, this can be done only by the State Budget Act. Now, essentially, according to the President of Ukraine's proposals on a law that is under consideration. The President's proposals come down to three separate categories, and I'll try to keep them brief. First, article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees and Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings is to be supplemented by the first section of the Act. This is contrary to part two of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which only the State Budget Act of Ukraine defines any expenditure incurred by the State on the general public needs, the size and purpose of the expenditure. So the President is proposing that these positions be included in the State Budget Act. The president's second proposal is the next one. The proposed law, which deals with the new edition of part of article 6 of the law that came to be signed, does not conform to the standard of the original article of this law, which provides for the right of citizens to compensation and to money savings contained in the institutions of former U.S.S.R. The second article 2 of the law, which came to be signed, provides, instead, that public compensation bonds are issued to compensate citizens for their lost savings and savings in securities. Meanwhile, the President notes that the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act, which is fundamental to the regulation of relations arising from the placement of securities, does not provide for the type of securities as State compensation bonds. And so the norm of this law, which is being considered, is actually empty. Third. Nor can it be supported, according to the President, that the second paragraph of the second chapter of the second final provisions of the law, which came upon the signature and which is proposed to settle annual payments of the State’s obligations under devalued monetary savings on the basis of the corresponding subsidy from the State budget, be paid by the local budget by paying off the arrears of such citizens for the consumption of electricity and heat, natural gas, solid fuel, and so on. The President of Ukraine supports such an approach so that such subsidies can be recalculated. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the same compensation mechanism for citizens of Ukraine for the loss of money savings was determined by the law of Ukraine on the 2005 State Budget. His actions continued after the corresponding law was signed by the President for 2006. However, by the State Budget 2007 Act, the current government has decided not to continue to act in accordance with the relevant law. And so we can't agree that this law provides for such a mechanism as a subsidy under these parameters that I've talked about, and in the State Budget Act, which should provide for the corresponding funds, to leave such a rule unattainable. In view of this, the President of Ukraine makes one single proposal in order to reject the law. Instead, I would like to point out that I think there is a need in this issue for the government to process the relevant proposals carefully and introduce an appropriate serious bill on the line to ensure that these lost savings are returned in order to change the state budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u128	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. But you said one more thing to yourself, there's no presidential reference to what you said in the 2007 series, there's a slightly different edition. Yes, thank you. Please sit down, but there is such a comment. Please, Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. The position he's in, let's see. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u129	Dear fellow countrymen! I think that today millions of people who really care about this problem are listening when we finally solve this issue. When our pensioners are destitute, the disabled will receive their bloodstains, which they have spent their entire lives collecting, if you will excuse me, their last journey. And what do we see, dear friends? The president's vetoing this social law one more time. I mean, we're often blamed when we come to the districts, that you guys aren't doing anything, why aren't you worried? So, for our radio audiences, I'm going to tell you that in ten years from 1997 to this year, the MPs introduced forty bills on citizens' savings. I want to remind you that on May 20, 1998, my first law was where I offered compensation for goods and services. Sadly, however, no law of the forty was signed by any president. And the same fate after. That's the law. I mean, your honor, something has certainly been done to get some of these savings back. I'll give you the numbers, too. In ten years, governments have allocated 3 billion 710 million. But that's 130 billion, very little. At this rate it will take 200 years. Regrettably, in 2005 the government of Timoshenko did not allocate a penny to recover these savings. In 2006, the government of Yehanurov did not make a penny. Since September alone, the new government has given 650 million, but the bank, our Savings Bank, has not been able to pay. We recently listened to this question on our committee. And it turns out, out of those 650 million, only 230 million have been returned. I want to ask more questions today, really, please tell me, when will we finally solve this problem? Or on a legislative level. I think we really need to do an audit of these savings, differentiation. Let's say that by 10,000, you have to turn right back. Next, let's say there's another approach. But this problem needs to be solved in the lives of the living. What the committee is offering. The committee is really offering to beat the veto. But I want the TV and the radio to know that it takes 300 votes to beat the veto. Why BOTH, why "Our Ukraine" who have seen that this law is planned for this week, why are they not in the hall right now? Come from the buffet, come from the basement. Catherinechuk, come back from the barricade of Harkow along with Zwania, with the others. Gather to this hall. A party of regions is ready with our colleagues, with the communists, with the socialists to overcome the veto. But we don't have the strength. And then what will you tell us that you were so much like the people?Oh, my God! So this is the question: where do you check your attitude towards the people? Come into the hall, stand by 300 votes. We beat the veto, and for the first time, the government will be able to find billions of money in order to recover the savings. So I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, now to ask the question of overcoming the veto. This is the decision of our Committee of Social Policy, and then show the whole of Ukraine: who cares about the people and how they care about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u130	Thank you. But first, let's make the President's proposal. No, no, wait. Discussion. Well, it's a shame we didn't hear Lazko during this week, but let's -- look at the Rules -- there's no discussion about when we're looking at the problem of overcoming the veto. No, look. None. Yes, please, Nina Ivanovno Karpachev, three minutes. In accordance with article 34, she asks for her word, since this applies to the rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm very short. In 2001, the Human Rights Commissioner addressed this issue to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, for the old authorities did not want to recognize the savings of our citizens as property. Then they were able to convince the reasoned Constitutional Court, which made a fair decision and then began to pay 50 dollars, they went as a piece of block bread. This was a very important step taken in 2001. As noted, only 2 percent were returned, only 2 percent were returned. New mechanisms have now been proposed: at least one and a half percent of GDP. This was actually my proposal, and I asked you to establish this rule in the law. I hope that today the people's deputies will make their choice in favor of our citizens' rights. Because new sources -- one and a half percent of GDP -- will allow for a real return next year, not symbolically, as it is now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u132	Thank you. So, dear fellows, we will be determined. Oh! The members of the friendly factions are being drawn up. Thank them. The President's motion to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Savings. [[Registration number 0915]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:49:36]] For-0 The offer won zero votes. Not supported. Puts to the vote the proposal Pres. [[Oh, I'm sorry, the President has already been identified.]] Committee on the Veto Overcoming of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. [[Registration number 0915]] Please take a friendly vote. [[12:50:13]] For 235 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 173, "Block Timoshenko" – 6, "Our Ukraine" – 0, socialists – 30, communists – 21, non-fractional – 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u133	In order of conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u134	Orderly, well, I'm doing the right thing. Please turn on the Chetchev microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. Indeed, we have now voted in favour of a vital law for millions of people deprived of their liberty. Indeed, we could have removed a million people from poverty. Therefore, as the two factions have practically blocked the adoption of this law along with the President, I propose that the results of the veto in the Voice of Ukraine be published. Let the people really know who's sitting in the hall working and thinking about people's lives, taking care of people's lives, taking laws, and whoever beats, does not work, and does not come to the hall, but only gets a salary!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u136	It's all right. Only I propose that you take the word “sit down” from your good speech and leave the word “actively working”. Who is in favour of the proposal to publish the results of the vote in the “Voice of Ukraine”, please vote. [[12:52:05]] For 241 A decision has been made, and that's all there is to it. Dear colleagues, let us mobilize to consider with you the very important questions in a literal five - minute period. The point is that we need to make decisions about the appointment of individual village heads. Please, from the committee of Zapuk Stepan Kirilovich, please come to the rostrum and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! On 14 March 2007, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government discussed the question of the appointment of out-of-court elections in two urban and 11 rural heads. This issue was raised in connection with the timely cessation of the authority of these urban and rural heads. 12 If desired, one in connection with retirement, four in health, the other in family circumstances, the transition to another job, one in connection with death. The relevant local councils have submitted a letter of appeal and all necessary documents to Parliament. The Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with local authorities and local authorities, believes that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the appropriate city and village heads be appointed on an orderly basis. Given that, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils, rural, urban heads are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in addition to the election of city and village heads. The committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the successive elections of corresponding city and village heads on Sunday, June 3, 2007, by adopting the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u138	Thank you, Stepan Kirilovich. Yes, please prepare for the vote. It is based on the vote of Decree 3322 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Lenin Rural Head. [[Crimea Republic]] Please vote. [[12:54:58]] For 241 Copy that. The Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the City of Chigirin, 3322-1, is put to the vote. [[Chestnuts]] Vote. [[12:55:24]] For 243 Copy that. Order for the appointment of the extra election of the Lulinecki Rural Head, 3322-2 registration number. [[Viennese Region, Kaliniv Region]] Please vote. [[12:55:51]] For 242 Copy that. Order on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Polosovski Rural Head, 3322-3. [[Ban Area]] Vote. Well, it says in the decree that it's a village head. There's a rural village, there's a village called Powsi and there's a village called Powsi. [[12:56:16]] For 245 Yeah, sorry, I didn't see how much, but the decision was made. Order for the appointment of pre-elections of Komarovsilski or Komarovsilski, Komarovsky, probably the village head of the Kharkiv region. 3322-4, we're voting on the bill. [[12:56:55]] For 243 I can't get through the list. It's not the packets. No, no, no. It's an election, let's not give the courts a reason to have a job with those who are unhappy. Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Bagachsov Rural Head Registration number 3322-5. Please vote. [[12:57:35]] For 243 Copy that. Order for the appointment of the Armenian city head, Crimea. 3322-7. Please vote. [[12:57:41]] For - 246 Copy that. Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sopian village head. [[The Colomia Region of Ivano-Frankiv Region]] 3322-8. Please vote. [[12:58:27]] For 241. Copy that. Order on the appointment of the next election of Paul’s village head. [[The Crusader Region of the Winnitsk Region]] 3322-9. Vote. [[12:58:52]] For 245 Copy that. Draft Decision on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Marine Rural Head. [[Beresov district of Odessa]] 3322-10. Vote. [[12:59:20]] For 245 Copy that. Order on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Yudian village head. [[Kharkiv Zoločiv district]] 3322-11. Vote. [[12:59:51]] For 242 Copy that. About the appointment of the extraordinary election of the Vassutinian village head. [[Blackbayiv region of the Cherkas region]] Order 3322-12. Vote. [[13:00:17]] For 241 Copy that. And it's as if we've missed the Order on Assignment of Subsequent Elections of Radelic Rural Head, 3322-6. [[Mikolai district of Lviv district]] Please vote. [[13:00:45]] For 244 Thank you, copy. And in terms of voting and so on, literally, for replication, your own experience. In March 1991, I was elected deputy of the Lviv City Council, where there was very democratic power, I was the first secretary of the city. And Democrats Lvov did not recognize my parliamentary powers on the basis of a single charade. The decision to nominate me was “Decision taken unanimously”. And they thought it was necessary to write: “We voted in favour” – so much “against” – so much “held” – so much”. On this basis, ten of me here, Jaroslav Kendzore, knows how democracy was prevented from joining the city council. But then they admitted it, but then they admitted it to the Supreme Council. Yes, dear fellows. We have two decisions left. Let's take them quickly and move on to different ones. It's a bill for establishing the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for the most talented young scientists. Probably in Ukrainian, "for the most talented young scientists." 2772. Catherine Samuel, please, a minute. I'll see you in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Is that us at the premium or at the scholarship?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u140	The most talented young scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u141	Huh?Oh, my God! Young scientists. You know, we have doctors of science up to 30 years of age all alone. And that's why the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the political system, right, I think I will if we introduce today's Supreme Council prizes for talented young scientists. There's 20 bonuses each. The findings of the Scientific and Expert Department, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, all support the adoption of this decision. And I think let's give you and me a gift to our young scientists and introduce these awards.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u142	Thank you, Catherine Seed, but a little bit of determination is written in a different way than you said. The Order states: “Institute since 2007 (you will not be founded by 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u143	Since 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u144	In 2008, 30 nominations from the Supreme Council for the most talented: 10 doctoral scholarships of 2,000 and so on. That is, as stated in the decree. I put to the vote a decree establishing the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for the most talented young scientists, registration number 2772. Please vote. [[13:03:51]] For 241 It's all right. Order 2772 won 241 votes. Now, rule number 2773. Draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to the best young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development. Please, Catherine Seminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u145	Okay. Thank you. I have already said that “the most innovative young scientists”, that's how we propose to write this down, not “the best young scientists”, we ask for 20 bonuses of 20,000 dollars each. And this decree has been in effect since 2008. It takes 400,000 dollars to implement this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u146	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. I'll tell you what. Vote 2773. [[13:05:03]] For 241 Decision taken. No doubt a colleague named Lazko tells the truth: At the expense of the Supreme Council. And we're going to take these costs at the expense of the economy on the wages of those who don't take part in the work of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Let us go to the section “Victory”. Please sign up. What law? The D.A.'s office? Well, he's out of time, and the reporter refused to report. And there's no time. The reporter refused to report the law, so talk to him, for he is from the U.S. Huh? So, we signed up for the Raz. Comrade Vezevski, please learn parliamentary discipline in the absence of it, because you are a little, sorry again for the non-parliamentary expression, because I will answer you the way you did, you have a little bit of work, I will be absent or absent from the session room. Please show me who signed up. One hour. Please, Teren, follow him, Andros. [[Taran]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u147	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! First, the first thesis is that there has just been a clear lie in this room that the government of Timoshenko has not budgeted the funds for the return. This is not true. Timoshenko, by the way, is the only politician in Ukraine who has signed a treaty with the All-U.S. Association of Frauded Investors about cooperation. It was the government of Tymoshenko that made up 600 million dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure to pay off the deposit debt. That's true, too. And it was Timoshenko who introduced a bill that envisioned the return of deposits through the housing and utility payment mechanism -- that's also true. Finally, it was Tymoshenko who offered the funds paid for the reselling of the “Criminals” to direct the repayment of the debt. And that would be a direct solution to the problem, not a declarative one, as in a bill that the President rightly vetoed and a bill that was essentially not decided on. This is the first thesis. The other one. As we discussed the changes to the budget, it became clear that nothing good would be done for people. The people had been boned in the form of several bracelets of wages and pensions, and members of the majority voted for this Janukovich bone. As a result, these pitiful supplements will simply eat up inflation. The government says there's no inflation and everything's good. Tell me, please, how can there not be inflation when the rates for residential services have doubled by three? I'll talk about the tariffs. Indeed, under the pressure of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the entire united opposition, the parliamentary majority did change the Housing and Utilities Act. And thank God, now all over the country there's going to be an order of tariffs, no matter where it was, east, west or center, Ukraine everywhere. At the same time, we suggested that Ukrainian cheap gas be sold practically at the cost of the population, and then tariffs would be reduced substantially. They didn't do it because they're using crazy money to speculate on gas. They didn't do it because the government is so corrupt. And I repeat: this is not just a government assessment of our bloc -- that's how this government in the world is described. I quote a report from the monitoring committee of the Council of Europe as part of today's government evaluation: “The new Cabinet of Ministers is filled with officials, as they identify the corruption of business interests with the government”, is the end of the quote. That is, the Council of Europe has already claimed that the government of Yanukovic is corrupt. So there's no reason to be surprised that there's no investment in Ukraine. And so it's much cheaper to run a new election than they're going to steal during their time of criminal domination.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u148	People’s deputies Andros and Ribuk convey the word to the national deputy Kiselov. Six minutes for the show, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to address you from this rostrum, to show you the document by which on March 1st the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine annulled the NCRE Order that those who consumed gas earlier than the central pendulum and then moved to an individual office had raised the price of gas two and a half times. This decision has been overturned, and I would like to ask Victor Fedorovich to find out who is there at the NCRE taking such decisions. Question two. I would very much like for you to listen to me today, and I want to tell you about the analysis of this ultimatum, which the so-called opposition has declared to the anti-crisis coalition. The first question is to determine at the national level of the referendum the form of the government of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you, following when the Supreme Council of Heads of the Supreme Council created a Constitutional Commission headed by the First Deputy, Martinyuk, to work with you on any changes to the Constitution and to accept them or to the Hall, or if there is a need for a referendum, the opposition has done nothing better than it came out of this committee. They don't want to work, they just want to "get laid" as they say. And then, you and I remember well the fate of the referendum that President Kuchma conducted in his time. A billion dollars were spent, a referendum took place, but the results were not carried out through the Supreme Council and were not implemented. The second question, they demand in their ultimatum a second point to protect Ukraine's foreign policy course. We also demand this because we are being pushed into NATO by force today. We also demand this point, but we demand to consider it civilizedly. We say we don't have to move away from the Universal, we have to deal with this, this question in a referendum on the state. It's a very important question. We must not draw it against the will of the people into an organization that today sheds blood, but we remember Iraq. We remember Yugoslavia, which has been reduced. And we're being pushed into this organization. I don't want my son serving in NATO tomorrow and lying his head down for American interests. I don't want that. Third, stop the next Ukrainian language and culture. Dear friends, it's cynicism, I'm telling you as a criminal today in Crimea. I don't mind. Because it's a state policy. Today, this law has decreased by 30 percent in Russian and has increased in Ukrainian. The Mayan has been shut down, which is being listened to by all Russian speakers. And given that in Ukraine today 12 million, 12 million ethnic Russians, I'd like to say: you can't get around today when countries are civilized in Sweden, you know, Finland -- two languages, Belgium -- four languages, Canada -- two languages and so on, I could count. We're stuck today, and we say we can't let people speak the language they want. If Russia doesn't want us to speak Russian, why deny it? The third question is, they write "The Send of Bear and Tsushka". Well, you know why, Tsushka. But why the Bear? You picked the Bear, that's your prosecutor, and today you're pushing him out. I won't go any further because there's no time left, I see, times. Time's running out. “Break the criminal link between business and power.” People good, I can only laugh after this question, because when I look at the faction of our Ukraine and the faction of the BUT, how many billionaires are there, I don't want to comment any more. And they raise that question, they sign and they vote. This confirms once again that they are, excuse me, shoopers. And the question is very important, I would like you to pay attention to it, it's very important to all of Ukraine. The sixth question is to move forward without intermediaries, agreements with the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, to break the deal with Rosukre Energo today. I want to remind you all that in 2005, when Timoshenko first and finished Yehanurov, they broke the agreement with Gazprom, the gas didn't cost us $50, which is why this tariff crisis went away. Why won't they admit it? I'd like the people of Ukraine to know that. Just after the agreement with Gazprom was broken, I stress. Today we're being pushed into a new breakup deal that today still gives us an opportunity to get $130 per thousand meters, but we know that the first bell rang yesterday, and I'm paying your attention: Russia began to build oil pipelines in Ukraine. And that's what people need to know. We will sit on our pipe, which no one will need in five years. But back to this agreement: those who propose today to break the agreement with the “Krirosenergo” and what do they give in return? I'm convinced that if we break this deal, it's convenient for us, because it's not 230 and it's not 320, like for France, in a thousand meters, it's just 130. And if, God forbid, the gas is going to cost us $230, the economy of Ukraine is going to lie down. That's why I say we have to think about what to say and what to write. Here's another question: Overcoming the tariff crisis. I already told you who created it. And we've talked about this in particular when we're on the district councils, where they're completely controlled. I ask you to read the newspaper of March 13, “The Voice of Ukraine” there, clearly, the secretary of the Lions says who is to blame for this crisis. That they sent Timoshenko away and refused to do so, she raised 300 percent and reduced by 10 percent the request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u150	The word is given to the national deputy Samofal. He passed the word "Perfect."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u151	I would like to raise today the subject that seems to be on the table. I spend about 12 meetings with voters every month. About 100 people come to my house every month for their questions, and everyone and many ask questions. Please tell me, people's deputies, what's going on in your Parliament? Why is Parliament turning into a criminal zone today? I mean the expressions that are sounding in Parliament today. I have not personally heard so many criminal expressions that I have listened to here, especially in this gathering. Everything sounds anything, and the most offensive thing is that these things sound sharp from a woman's mouth, from a leader of a respected faction. Here's the whole thing: both the gang, and the sixes, and the bandits, and so on. One trailer. Apparently, the six doesn't know the essence of this lexicon, it's probably that the sixes are the people who go to America and Israel to ask for support and so on. They're really sixes. And those who work for Ukraine today, in the name of the Power, I think they have a different name. But I would like to ask one question to respectable colleagues - our Ukraine and the Yulia Timoshenko bloc. Who do you call bandits? Because today it's the name, today it's about every national MP. So, as you say, it's about me, about Mr. Yavorivsky and so on. I want to give you an example. Today, in a coalition of anti-crisis 18 heroes, twice the Soctruda Heroes. Geroev Social Services and Geroev Ukraine. Who has the right to call these people bandits? This is the national pride of our Ukraine. I'm just going to give you some examples, and today I've seen the magazine, it's so beautiful, it's called Clean Sky, published by Golunenko Aleksandr Vasilevich, a Ukraine Hero with a gold star number one in 1999. A well-deserved pilot. The USSR, a well-deserved Ukrainian transport official, a well-deserved sport master of Ukraine, was 263 times a world recorder, a candidate. and so on, so on. Who, if you'll excuse me, has allowed this man to be called a bandit? I'll give you an example of Hero of the Soccer, Hero of Ukraine, Efim Zwiagilski. His mine that was working. It's more than it used to be. From that point of view, we seem to have a similar attitude. the authorities. For example, the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a request to the State Security Service. Adam Ivanovich Martinuk is making a request to the same address, so far there is no answer. I ask the Attorney General to consider this my request, to understand why the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy is being violated. And if there is such a need to open a criminal case against those responsible for violating this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u152	The national MP Bertash gives the floor to the deputy of the Horbatuk Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u153	Volin, Gorbück, Party of Regions. Deputies! The actions that were carried out on Wool and our Ukraine force me to speak from the Supreme Council's rostrum and give them an assessment of the position of the Party of the Regions. First. This is Lucenka's arrival, his statement of mass support. I'll say, if he hadn't been visited by the executive authority, he would have been met by 400 arches, and so in areas and cities the district for the promotion of the heads of the district government and their deputies were ordered by three or four buses, picked by the people the authorities were accompanying at the rally. City chief Mr. Shiba, in the first week of the Holy Post, watched calmly as the stage was mounted in the center of the cathedral for three days at the rally beat by drums, the singers paid for their songs about “patrons and ribbons, pass” and the new spiritual guru Lucenko called people to the next stage. [[BUT]] The result is another adventure and lie on Volin. The other one. The arrival in Lutsk Timoshenko after the failure of the Lviv tariff army. In vain at the city council, two hundred supporters were waiting for Julia Timoshenko to meet her. After the session, she left the room at the back door, and the people accordingly remained on the field without any questions to be asked by their leader. The city council’s decision to reduce tariffs by 10 percent to Timoshenko’s arrival is also controversial. Instead of dealing essentially with service providers, such as the Water Channel, Lutzteplo, on tariffs, the city’s budget authorities will cover the difference of 10 percent, thus promoting them in general not to cut tariffs but to keep them constant. At that time, only hundreds of thousands of bracelets are collected from people for water supply and water supply, repairs, expensive cars, fees for legal services to the private structure, computerization, and systems. The third question is a joint action agreement in the opposition of Volinska Butt and Our Ukraine. Such a step by these political forces does not make sense of the logic of things at all, since all the executive positions in Volina, in local self-government bodies belong to BUT, and to the executive authority of “Our Ukraine”. It turns out that the Volinian authorities have opposed themselves, will criticize themselves, and will fight against themselves. I wonder what's gonna happen. Such actions by the opposition in the West of Ukraine force us, as representatives of the anti-crisis coalition, to state that the local authorities were urgently identified. If you have already gone into opposition, please leave your cabinets, release your positions, go to the stock market, work for the party, and be an opposition to power. Or publicly step out of the party and work effectively in power, matching two positions, power and opposition, we won't give you, it's political adventure, absurdity that the world has never seen. And after the July Timoshenko press conference. If the leader is talking about how to consolidate society, how to connect, how to understand her experiences that the Constitution is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u154	Jaduh's National Deputy, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, respectable TV and radio listeners. I would like to go back today to the very important question that has already been asked. Over the years, the state, the authorities of all levels, the media have convinced the population to move to more economical use of energy, to autonomous heating of housing, to install gas, heat meters, and so forth. A large number of people responded and did the right thing, as we can see today, even though they did not spend too much money. But we know very well that the National Energy Regulatory Commission issued a decree last December that approved the new retail prices for natural gas used by the population. They entered into force on January 1, 2007. In the opinion of gas consumers, this regulation severely violates human rights because they are all somehow divided into different varieties. In particular, paragraph 5 of this decree is indignant, where gas used in apartments separated from centralized networks now has to be paid twice as much as other consumers. I'd like to give you an example of who our voters are. In particular, the elector Yacishin Mikola Seraphimovich, on behalf of the villagers of the village of Vinjkowci Hmelnicki district, turns and gives an example. He says: “In November I used only 70 cubic feet [70 cu m] of natural gas, and in December 80, for which I paid 25 and 30 dollars respectively. At the same time, in the same apartment, the bookkeeping accounted for more than 266 and more than 300 bracelets. But I would like to reassure our respected TV sets and our fellow countrymen. The government of Ukraine, which is still working on social standards, as evidenced by yesterday’s wage-raising decisions, pensions will continue for at least two years, has reversed the decision of this National Commission and has made a decision that has reduced the price of gas for consumers who live in multi-family homes and who have individual heating. They're going to pay depending on the volume of gas use, of course, not instead of the only tariff that was 686 dollars per thousand cubic meters, at the old price of 315 dollars per cubic meter?). Gas. And so I'd like to turn to everyone again, the bones in the direction and in the city of the government are being thrown by those who are just pulverized by the tongues that are unable to work for the development of the economy, which have been buried by the Ukrainian village, who have destroyed the footage that we are gathering in parts of the region today, so that they can actually work for people's interests, for the sake of our independent Ukraine, as Victor Yanukovich's government does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u156	The deputy Ledida gives the floor to the national MP Ribuk, the Party of the Regions. Next Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Recently, most of us worked in the districts, in the regions, I also worked in several areas of the home district of Žitomir and, when visiting schools, kindergartens, the hospital mostly heard these questions, if they were to raise and we had already heard the salary, the chief physician at the Red Army Hospital said: “I am not asking for myself. Here are the nurses, the younger medical staff, you help them, because I have already taken advantage of the parliamentary rostrum and the opportunity to inform you, the distinguished workers and nurses, that the Supreme Council for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers has taken a coalition majority vote on the first wage increase and will be at least twice this year." What I'm saying is let's just work so that words and deeds don't go away. We realize that the opposition, it may be more pleasing to people when it speaks, and the government and the responsible majority of parliament, is obliged to sometimes more difficult matters by works. So here is another question about the word and the work, so that it does not differ in us as in Parliament as a whole and in the human sense. Today we were, right now, an hour before the historic event in one second, if the opposition came and voted against the veto to give 10.8 billion dollars for the first time in these 15-16 years to the oldest and those who lost their savings for the known reasons. And I'm reading, 13th, although at the request of our opposition, as it were, what's most important is to remove all obstacles to the holding of local referendums. Tell me what's most important today: give away, and there's a chance, 10 billion a year, people who are the poorest and the elderly, or discuss referendums, even though I'm not against them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u158	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, next Knjazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u159	Vladimir Yavorowski. First of all, I would like to welcome our colleague Mikola Tomenko with a debut as chairman of the Supreme Council session. The other one. I'm talking to the voters, first of all. And I want to remind Kuzma Prutkova, who used to joke like this: the moon is beautiful, because the moon shines when it's dark in the night; and the sun is bad, because what it shines when you see it. I think it's kind of like that I don't want to go down to the political crash today because maybe these poor voters, they're already getting their head blown off by how much they're loved here under this dome and, as they want to do, they're going to have a skyscraper. Today, I will go to specific facts about a law that has not been overtaken by the veto. I want to remind you of December 14th last year, this very same law was voted in this room. It was voted in full by BUT 100 per cent of “Our Ukraine”, Communists and seems to be socialists. No vote was given by the Region for the bill. The law was voted when the budget had not yet been adopted. That's why you could vote, then you could find these in the budget, and I'm guessing it's 9 billion, but the Rib just said it's 10.8. Better yet, I thank him. That would be the way to put this money into the budget, and no one would have had any conversation on this subject today. You put in your budget, which we didn't vote for, just 600 million. Then why are you crying? What do you shed your tears for today, and you love this miserable Ukrainian people so much? So what's going on? I'm convinced that the President would not have to veto this bill, and if those 10 billion Yanukovich and Azarov were looking for it, and this government would have fallen in three or four months, it wouldn't have to go down. The same people who did not receive their savings would go against this government. The president in this situation has done very cleverly, because this madness is simple and simple, it's just a political game. That's why I'm addressing you and asking the voters first, how many people, how many charlatans, forgive me, have chosen a parliamentary mandate, promising you that they will pay you back these savings. The truth is, let them first tell you where to take this particular money, or put in some new tax or whatever, only then can they believe. As a result, I am convinced that this farce must be completed. We didn't vote for this bill because it's empty as a drum, and there's absolutely nothing in it. You didn't find any pitiful coins yesterday to raise five dollars' minimum wage and a minimum pension, and today you're lying to all of Ukraine that you're willing to pay people back that money. Have a conscience if you have a little bit of it left.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u160	Ruslan Knazevich, "Our Ukraine". The next Etukhov. Dear colleagues, we have not much left. Let's listen to each other. Ruslan Knazevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the truth of Ukraine is a unique country. I just don't know where in the condition of a modern globalized world, which country can afford such luxury, for months without a foreign minister. And this is all entirely due to the brutal unwillingness of the anti-crisis coalition to appoint a foreign minister, who, in accordance with the constitutional mandates introduced by the President of Ukraine, is responsible. Yesterday, on March 15, we saw another exhibition in this theater of absurdity, where the anti-crisis coalition decided to postpone this question for the reason that there was a letter from the head of the Secretariat that Mr. Ogryzko had not been present yesterday, not from the rostrum, but was present with the President of Ukraine, it turns out, in Denmark and physically could not be in this room. Well, it's ridiculous to add here. It is absolutely true that, since there is no basis for a de facto diplomat who, for 30 years, has had a cartolemous diplomatic career, starting with the attaché, after completing his duties as foreign minister, there is no other argument than to disprove him by refusing to answer the questions of the coalition in Ukrainian, and refusing to violate the Constitution of Ukraine. But for this he must be appointed immediately, for it is by this man’s desire to defend the interests of the State. On the other hand, yesterday, it was wise to immediately dismiss those officials who brutally violate the Constitution, refusing to speak in the national language, rather than speaking only in the language of the neighbouring state: the Deputy Prime Minister of Azarova, Rybak, Clovis, a number of ministers. For some reason, the coalition forgot to say so in its decision. Because, it turns out, Janukovic took charge and made a commitment to the President the day before the decision was made. He said, but he didn't, you see, because in the night, it turns out, there were some factors that worked. We understand what this is about. Perhaps someone had not been able to fully decipher the cryptography that had come from the Kremlin, and somehow it had to be transferred before Tuesday, because there may have been a change in the code due to the change in the situation in Ukraine. Your Honor, you don't need to have your eye caressed, you don't need to be hypocritical. In fact, the situation is very simple: no one was going to do that, because anti-crisis coalitions have long been operating from abroad, they've become the essence of anti-crisis coalition policies. In this regard, the faction “Our Ukraine” states that it is necessary to address this issue without delay and to comply with the requirements of the Constitution, according to which the Ogrezka candidature is the exclusive authority of the President of Ukraine. We don't need the President of Ukraine to make any suggestions about other candidates, you do your authority, that's enough. At the same time, do not forget the interests of your own State. You're her citizens first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u162	Vasil Evtukhov, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next Jaroslav Kenzior. Excuse me, Jaroslav Evtuhov passes the word to Catherine Samuelk, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u163	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Dear radio listeners! I want to apologize to you first of all for saying that we're unconscious, we're working, and you're going to the cash register, you're getting paid, you're going to the buffet, you're eating, and you're talking about someone who's unconscious! You really need to have an elementary conscience! I want to say, I want to express my concern about the perplexity of the situation in our country. [[Get down for God's sake! You got it!]] And the BUT faction and our Ukraine are involved. They destroy the Ukrainian state, they destroy the Ukrainian people. I received a letter from Herson of Mochalin, a veteran of the Great Homeland War, demanding that we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, stop ex-Minister Lucenk. He reminds us that the fight of rams, black clothes, loudspeakers -- all of this reminds him of the times when the Germans entered my own Herson. The same humiliation of people, the same blackness, the same impossibility, because it is better to manage and talk about some cloudy truth. We need her. Let it be that which is not, but the truth that is earthly. Maybe the President will eventually stop his ex-Minister of Home Affairs counsellor for the Ukrainian family, and eventually leave the people of Ukraine alone. Enough playing with the fate of the Ukrainian people, enough pressuring the situation. Give peace to both the farmer and the worker, the scientist and the doctor, the west, the east, the north, the south and the center of Ukraine, and give a normal life to a normal person. Today, as we did yesterday, we accepted the social issues that people needed so much. Which one of you wasn't among the people, and which one of you didn't approach an old grandmother or grandfather and say, "Dad, when will you finally give us our savings back?" We've made an effort today to defeat the President's veto, I stress, the President's veto in order to start paying off the citizens' savings. Regrettably, those who beat themselves in the chest and say that they are the best supporters of the people did not appear in the hall. It's the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the "Our Ukraine" Block. I think this is exactly the moment that's giving a real assessment. Once again, I would like to emphasize that we should not go to Albright or the United States, but rather go to the Ukrainian people, bend our heads, and say: “I’m sorry that we are for you. “ I don’t know
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u164	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine. Next up, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen of the electorate! I'm talking to you because there's 1, 2, 3, 4. Five people's deputies. The life of the Ukrainian Diaspora in the Russian Federation can be discussed with great pain. According to the official census in 2002, about 3 million Ukrainians, who identify themselves with Ukraine, lived in the Russian Federation. In 89, the census revealed 4.5 million Ukrainians. By comparing these two censuses, 1.5 million people have disappeared who identify themselves as Ukrainians. In short, we have an illustrative example of mass assimilation to Ukraine in the Russian Federation. In these days, you all know, the government of Moscow is closing down the Ukrainian library, which was closed in 38 years and restored by a tremendous effort last May. The year did not survive Ukrainian. A unique Ukrainian library in Moscow. For this reason, our esteemed, so-called, Ukrainian government, Vice Prime Minister on humanitarian issues and the entire anti-crisis coalition remain silent. What does this talk about? If you compare this Ukrainianophobia of Luzkov and what he's doing today, and what we're seeing in Ukraine today, here's Mr. Kiselov's bitter cry about what's in Crimea, it turns out that 30 percent of criminals have less spoken or learned Russian in this last year. I would very much like Mr. Acidov to look at these things and analyze them. As we observe the actions of the Anti-Crist Coalition, we can say without fail that it is guided — part, as it were, by our own anti-Ukrainian instincts, but mostly, as it were, from Biostone Moscow. Because last night, they reproached Ogrezka for not being the minister of foreign affairs because he did not speak Russian. It's acid again. Why, then, does he remain silent in what language does Mr. Azarov speak? I, if you'll excuse me, enter the orgasm when I hear his English. And you know, your colleagues, all that the Antichrist Coalition is doing today is Moscow's fifth column in Ukraine. And this is the scariest thing the Ukrainian electorate should remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u166	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u167	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, and above all, dear fellow countrymen! I want to express my sympathy to all of our voters who over the week have listened to a lot of gibberish speeches that are not practically listening to what is impossible under the umbrella and bromome, or even under general drug abuse. At the same time, I want to say that one lady who just got back from the buffet was saying something about cash registers. Indeed, the Ukrainian opposition to Ahmedov’s cassettes does not go hand in hand with the protection of national interests. And with regard to other cash registers, what I'm saying is that while we were legitimate, parliamentary actions were protecting the increase in pensions and salaries for our voters, that is, making changes to the budget, they decided to take away our salaries. But it won't, it'll be different. We, "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Timoshenko" wrote statements about it. So you can count the cost to the children's homes. Moreover, the system of child payments in Ukraine is a problem. You remember what was done with 8.5,000 bracelets. Today, they moved these payments from the workplaces where Mother came without a turn, sociospouses. Mothers with children in their arms, standing in line, return e to receive these costs. Thus, life has improved today, even for those who have been for several months. And now basically yesterday's budget vote. On this issue, how in the famous log with Lenin's history there are so many media. It seems that not only everyone in Parliament was carried but also outside Parliament. And the story of the question is very simple. Had it not been for the veto of the national president first and second, no decree would have been issued on December 22. That the budget changes will be made. I want to remind you of anthology and chronology. And the chronology of this question. In February, Prime Minister Janukovic said that there was no funds for promotion. But after the bill came out first, and this is what we call the "second" of the President of Ukraine and the unified opposition by Sivolski Kirilenko, Timoshenko and Bondar, money turned out to be. The question is: Who is responsible for the fact that the entire first quarter of our voters, when they received the increased payments, were left alone with hidden inflation and with such high payments. The point is that the funds, the 3 billion leftovers of the previous year, the 3 billion from the pension fund, the increased pensions, the 1.2 billion from the income tax, but it's all hidden. Hidden and hidden, and given the increase in several of the budget deficits, as the government's proposal today is, of course, a step that will ultimately affect the social situation of our voters. Therefore, yesterday’s review of the changes to the budget is considered a victory for the united opposition and for the President, but it will be an even greater victory when these changes will not be due to an increase in the deficit, but rather to the real funds that are now being hidden in the manual regime of the anti-crisis coalition and the Yanukovich government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u168	People's deputy Boki will share a position with the national deputy Kozuba, six minutes, please. Prepare Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u169	John Boki, the Socialist faction. “Relation to the President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenka. Dear Mr. President! On September 13, 2005, in an interview with Associated Press, you accused ex-Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko of having written down her debts to creditors since she headed the EESU Corporation of 8 billion dollars. According to the law, such acts are a criminal offence. I don't suppose for a moment that the Heads of State could have made such a statement on the grounds of political revenge or without testing the ex-premier abuse. Also, I don't suppose anyone could have used you, the President-elect of the world, to collect business accounts. I believe today that this accusation of yours had serious legal grounds and was true and honest in the face of the Ukrainian people and the world community. This is what I came out of when I asked Julia Timoshenko in the Ukrainian Supreme Council's session hall on March 15 whether she would repay such a large debt that she would allow Ukraine to have an inefficient budget and significantly increase the salaries and pensions of Ukrainian citizens. In the absence of an answer, the craftsmanship of boundless cynicism and speculative lies led to the hanging of labels and images. Today, Julia Timoshenko, accused of criminal activity, is your closest partner in the fight against the anti - crisis coalition that is sweeping the collapses of her free premiere. To be honest, like millions of Ukrainians, I am surprised by your friendship, by its palatological obsession with power and cynical methods of political struggle. However, Mrs. Timoshenko’s immorality is well - known and will not be rectified. However, your alliance with her, the satisfaction of all her demands and the silence of her insidious attempt to manipulate you as she manipulates a part of her deluded people, forces me, as a citizen and as a politician, to speak to you publicly: do you still support the charge you have made on September 13, 2005 against Julia Timoshenko for abuse of office and criminal activity against the Ukrainian State. Why did you, as President of Ukraine, not take steps to bring her to justice? Why do you allow her to use you in manipulating the Ukrainian people in her clan interests and thus demeaning Ukrainian statehood? Does your political alliance with Yulia Timoshenko mean that you are heading for criminalization and demobilization of power and political process? I dare to believe that you will not refuse to give a public answer to these questions as honestly and truthfully as you did on September 13, 2005. It's an honor. It's a signature. My signature. And in the course of the time I have left, I would like to inform our radio listeners about the issues that have been violated here by some national MPs, and what the head of the “Our Ukraine” faction Viacheslav Kirilenko spoke about yesterday. It is said that the anti-crisis coalition consulted the Kremlin, or Moscow leadership, on the acceptance of the Ogre’s candidature. So I can assure you that, yes, we advised, not Moscow and not the Kremlin. We consulted Papua New Guinea, whose colony became Ukraine because of the leadership of past power, and I mean Kuchma and those who acted in BUT and our Ukraine, who have always been the backdrop of Kuchma's abuse of the Ukrainian people and the collapse of its economy. And I'll tell you, the leadership of Papua New Guinea has really been asked, and why hasn't your president found a cannibal? We said there are no cannibals in Ukraine. Then the leadership of Papua New Guinea allowed us to vote in favour of Mr Ogryzka. And I'll tell you that this, this guide, this guide to action, will guide us further when Mr. Ogryzka re-places Mr. Yushchenko as Minister of Foreign Affairs. So you don't have to blame Moscow, there's a far more active and powerful ally in the anti-crisis coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u170	Oleg Lazko. Yulia Timoshenko's block, prepare John Bondarchuk for a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u171	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Ukraine can be shown sympathy when the allies of the anti - crisis coalition have Papua New Guinea. It's terrible just to hear similar statements from the Parliamentary rostrum. I would also like to make an appropriate message. Following the betrayal of her leader, Frost, and the rapid loss of voter support, the social party took the path of political extremism. This is evidenced by a published March 2nd interview in the newspaper “Day” by a member of the U.S.S.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W.W., in which he threatens to take under the strict protection of the IMF's troops the central executive authorities in the event that the President of Ukraine signs a decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council. The absence of Alexander Frost’s reaction to this claim indicates that it is made of his known identity. And proof of the existence of a plan of the U.S.S.O. to seize power in Ukraine is written by Volga’s handbook “The coup d’état”. According to his author, under the conditions of unformed civil society in Ukraine, it is enough to control the IMF and to take power with boldness. In the rule of law, a similar statement of policy, not to mention its authorship as a guide to the organization of riots, would have caused an adequate response by law enforcement agencies. But we are trying to usurp power as the next triumph of the summer of reform. In the absence of time, there is only one quote from the Volga Handbook. The identification of such stagnation policy in modern Ukraine is a strong opponent in the idea of the presidency, Comrade Frost. How would another recognized supporter of the parliamentary republic, Mr. Brutus, have acted in his place? I'd like to direct my campaign to sharpen the style and invite the first 12 people from the election list of the party to the first meeting of the Supreme Council with the participation of the President. Instead, let's think about the political significance of the supply of ice cream and how he was concerned about the housing and utility problems of the head of the young fellow Lucenko. And these claimed to take Ukraine from Kuchma, leading the rising masses all winter for their noses until they headed toward the pomegranates. Are you going to make a mockery of that? But you'll have to. It's a good thing that Comrade Frost has predetermined himself the price -- the price for which he's likely to have been bought on the occasion of the vote in the Supreme Council for constitutional reform. Thankfully, a practicer deprived of the need to give moral assessments is enough to note that each time he or she is scheduled to leave his or her property behind, the end of the quote. Please consider my request to the Attorney-General for a criminal offence based on the preparation of a coup d'état in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u172	John Bondarchuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u173	Dear radio audiences, television audiences, in particular, we are using this opportunity to contact you. I also gathered a whole directory of references today to me and the Cosatian City Head, and to the leaders of the cities of Žmernka, the Hopilnik, and others, about the problem that my colleague Jaduh had already encountered. But since the deputy of Kiselov has demonstrated a document that has just been adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which solves the problem. In terms of setting up or cancelling a previous decision on the price of domestic gas, I think our TV and radio audiences can be calm, that this issue has been decided positively by the government for their benefit. Yesterday we approved the changes to the budget, once again we confirmed that the government, coming out of reality today, intends to resolve the issue in a consistent and sustained manner, step by step, for the benefit of our electorate, for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Because if my colleague Yavorowski had gone to a meeting and listened, he would have known that, aside from the 600 million dollars that were recorded in the budget for the return of lost savings to the citizens, the agreement had been reached yesterday and voted that another 330 million had not been returned, and this is the first time that the government has shown responsibility for taking on the commitments of even those previous periods that had not been made before, that this debt had never been repaid. Therefore I would ask many and those who have already come out and gone out of the hall not to be Pharisees, for you should know that those who love the Pharisees did Jesus Christ with the Pharisees. With regard to Alexander Moroz and the charges against him today. I don't even want to waste this time, because it's an accusation of political pygmy and the confusion that has been made, so I don't think we need to comment on it. And for the rest. I would ask us to think that we should look at our people, not at the United States, not at Russia, but at our people, at their needs. If we do so, we will not have such questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u174	Thank you. Stepan Bulba, the Socialist faction, after this performance, we're doing a great job.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u175	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the radio and the television. I will not give an answer to petty frauds who have no right even to speak about people known to all Ukraine who have proved their loyalty to the people and their willingness to serve. I won't, because in the end, it's obviously unnecessary and everyone here understands it. I'm drawing your attention to something else. Here's the "17 Moments of Spring" in the third paragraph, more faithful in the second paragraph: "Protecting Ukraine's foreign policy course" -- that's what it's called, this point. But there is no reference to the efforts of the People's Union “Our Ukraine”, the Presidential Environment, the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc to involve Ukraine as quickly as possible in NATO, and this is not an accident. Yesterday I was able to attend one of the meetings where the Grantoids justified themselves in front of their foreign patrons about the Ukrainians' unwillingness to join NATO, talking about our zombieism with conscientious propaganda, and what he said, here we will overcome it, give new grants and everything will be fine. So I'm going to say to all of these: you're not going to get it. And far away from Ukraine, I'm sure they'll come to conclusions that you'd like to have today. Our historical experience shows, and history assures us that Russia is not a threat to Ukraine’s national security. At the same time, Ukrainians understand the reliability, convenience of maintaining good neighbourly relations with Russia. And that's a pragmatic approach, because it provides a solution, let's say, whatever the problems of energy supply, the problem of our work abroad, in Russia, is the problem of our industry. The pragmatism of Ukrainians is that they don't feel that citizens of NATO member states are safer than we are, say, with regard to terrorist acts in the territories of those countries. Therefore, regardless of the intensity of NATO propaganda in Ukraine, its effectiveness will depend on changing these parameters. In addition to everything else, it is incumbent upon us to say that any attempts to force a solution to Ukraine's accession to NATO beyond the limits of the referendum, as defined by the Universal, will exacerbate the situation in the country, which will certainly affect stability in Europe and not only in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-16-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we'll finish the job. At the end of the day, I'm going to say something very important: because yesterday I opened this meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Council of NATO and Ukraine on behalf of the Supreme Council, once again I want to say that we don't have any political power in Parliament that doesn't confirm the need to join NATO by holding a referendum. There is an appropriate document signed by the factions of the anti-crisis coalition and there is an appropriate document signed by the BUT factions and our Ukraine. So I am convinced that all the political forces will implement this document and the decision to join NATO, if such a need arises, will be approved exclusively in a national referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on March 20, 2007.
