ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u1	Good morning, national MPs, media, are invited! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system, we register. [[10:06:58]] There are 257 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare open the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. Please sign up for the performances. The factions first. Please, from the deputies. Please, 30 minutes: factions — five minutes, three minutes from the MPs. Please, Peter Cibenko. Matthew's passing on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear fellow countrymen! What is happening in Ukraine today is not just surprising, frightening, but shocking to many of our citizens. This is also evidenced by many phone calls from all over Ukraine to our faction, our party committees, people today say that they are accustomed to aggression, rematch statements, false leaders of the so - called opposition and its comrades, in paws, her loyal companions, during more than a month’s cold - war parliament. Here are the actions of the very guarantor of the Constitution, his statements, the assessments of the political situation in our country cannot, to say the least, be surprising. His participation in Saturday's rally, on April 28, I mean, in a rally of so-called democratic forces in the European Square, finally confirmed the conclusion, and we've already talked to you about that he was never, and that's all he's ever going to be is the President for most Ukrainian citizens. Here he demonstrated really European, in paws, approaches to a political assessment of the situation by openly taking sides with those who are in power, using any means to do so. The last two decrees of President Yushchenk regarding the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court have once again made it clear that by their practical actions, acts of blackmail, intimidation, ignoring the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the President is leading to an ever-increasing political situation, a deepening division in our Ukrainian society. This is because even his underprivileged lawyers confirm that under the Law on the Constitutional Court of Judges, the Supreme Council is freed. Indeed, after amendments to the Constitution have been made to the relevant standard, and we know this very well, it has been added “and liberates” but we should remember that under the Constitutional Court of Judges Act of the Constitutional Court the Supreme Legislative Authority of the State, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is liberating. In this regard, there may be some kind of legal conflict in this matter, but we all know that this part of the judges, I mean by the quota of the presidents, is being released by the body that appointed this part, but again by the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as to the intent of the reasons in the President's decree to break the oath of judges, it is absolute absurd. So today, Ukrainian citizens, all the political forces that stand in the position of firm adherence to the rules of the Constitution, the rule of law in our country, have claimed and stated that we cannot allow a gross violation of the Basic Law of our State, so we demand that the President make absolutely all legal decisions to enter the relevant legal field. We cannot allow such an act on our Constitution, the basic law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, from the Party of the Bogotier Raisa Vasilovna. Five minutes. And she's told by Hara. Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u4	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, journalists, dear voters! The political and civic situation in Ukraine is nearing a dangerous limit when, rather than the Constitution and the law, emotions become the foundation of state politics. The head of state has ceased to be the center of political life in Ukraine and a reliable constitutional arbitrator in its political system. In line with the principle of political relevance, not the responsibility for the fate of the State and the stability of its development, the President of Ukraine went beyond the national compromise achieved by the adoption of changes to the Constitution and the parliamentary elections of 2006 and has itself become a real source of political conflict. His subjective assessment of the real political scenarios of social development, his acute reluctance to accept the parliamentary-presidential form of government organization, has led to an institutional crisis in Ukraine. It quickly became a constitutional crisis when the head of state began to adjust the rules of the Basic Law to ensure the monopoly of its powers and to destroy the system of balances and restraints in the distribution of power in Ukraine. The President's move to the side of the opposition, his leadership in the political minority has finally provoked a systemic national-political crisis, which, by taking turns, is moving rapidly towards the general civil conflict. Under the form of a struggle for democracy, we are driven by pseudo-democracy goals that distort common moral values and artificially bring us back to our previous era. Under the protection of the President's constitutional rights, we are once again trying to inculcate our own understanding of the rule of law as the head of a single institution, the President. This is fundamentally contrary to the Ukrainian community's agreement, which was declared both orange and white blue. A hostage of this unprincipled and cynical struggle for power of opposition, which ruthlessly and irresponsibly uses the guarantor of the Constitution in his own interests, becomes the entire Ukrainian people. He doesn't want to be divided into an eastern and western electorate, destroy bridges between the left and the right banks of Dniper, and start a new 700-year-old war between Ukrainians. He expects us, from the political power in Ukraine, to take the necessary, responsible and honest steps to come out of the crisis, which is the artificial, aggressive technology of the Ukrainian urban opposition to the usurpation of power. We owe it to you not to let that happen. We can't bend to the brute force that is now being offered to us as an act of democracy. PARE urged its resolution of political power in Ukraine to submit to the Constitutional Court’s decision. It is a unique and unique opportunity to exit the deaf corner created by the President's decree through the rule of law, restore trust in power, and reconcile the Ukrainians. But the constitutional and just development of events did not set up the president and, first of all, his environment. In his second decree to end the powers of the Supreme Council, he destroyed a constructive dialogue as a civilized way to solve the crisis. Unsurprisingly and unjustly liberating the judges of the Constitutional Court who were at the trial stage of the advisory room, the head of State stated in fact that the only way to communicate was to become a political ultimatum. Its goal is not only to run-off elections, but to uphold the Constitution is actually to establish direct presidential rule in the country. To that end, the work of the government, the Constitutional Court, which could provide a legal way of overcoming the crisis, was under unprecedented pressure from the President. I call such a Presidential policy cruel, it has no public morals. It will not lead us to the one authority and unity of our people. I don't accept the power of ultimatums as the style of government. Democracy is the destiny of compromise for the nation's prosperity. I urge the President to abandon the forceful scenario of the reconstruction of Ukraine's political system and return to the constitutional field, cancel his orders to suspend the powers of the judges of the Constitutional Court. I also appeal to all of us not to give in to our emotions and to our collective provocations, to our radical calls for civil opposition. We have assumed the responsibility of political responsibility for the stable and effective development of the state, without our joint action, democratic elections will not be able to take place objectively. We need a plan and clear common ground. We have not lost, in my opinion, the possibility of restoring the constitutional balance between the President and the branches of power in Ukraine. This is not only his but also our responsibility with you. This needs to be done, in my view, in a democratic and legal way, without another war between the Ukrainians, which can dissipate us among other peoples. In this connection, the proposal may be to hold closed meetings of members of the Supreme Council, together with the opposition, with the President, the Government, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and to discuss on them the ways out of the growing political crisis in Ukraine, to hold perhaps extraordinary assemblies in the Ukrainian Chamber of Deputies from the coalition of all levels and to adopt a political resolution on the situation in the country and ways of coping with the political crisis, to give up on a political level the escalation of the conflict by adopting political decisions that may provoke civil instability and unbiased state and to urge the President of the country to refrain from using forceful means to govern the country. Dear colleagues! In the struggle for a young national constitutional democracy, we were challenged by opposition, by the President and, in fact, by history itself. We have only one choice: to accept it and get out of the conflict that we have imposed by peaceful and democratic means. First of all, we need to get out stronger. Early elections are always a cure for a sick democracy, but if they are a result of political compromise and are carried out in accordance with the rule of law. I think we have not lost the opportunity to embark on this single strategic path that leads us to a united Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u5	Thank you, Raisa Vasilevna. The word is Boki Ivan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, what is killing Ukraine today, is included in one proverb: “Everyone is bridged in Napoleon, and not everyone is running even to his needy.” Although, without having a hundred friends and having a conceited and yet adorned with gourmet gourmet gourmet gourmet gourmet glasses, you can still see that some of the famous four “co-co-co-co-co-co” sometimes demonstrate convincingly. But I went out not to learn about the modern paradoxical folklore, and I went out to the rostrum to repent, to repent on behalf of the socialists, to repent that in 2004 we supported the presidential election and helped get into the presidential chair of Victor Yashchenka. Without socialists he couldn't have won, he admitted it himself, the whole of Ukraine knows that. But he betrayed us first. And when now of all the rostrums, along with the well-known political vertigo and the apherist, the Jews of Vienna, Lucenk, the Baptist of Turkey, the thief Lyszka accuses us, the socialists, of treason, there is a need to point out the facts of the divine treachery, of the Juicy. We supported Yushchenk as a candidate for the Presidents in fighting the Uurpation of power by Kuchma, but we did not support his political power, and when he accuses us of betraying an orange team, we, the socialists, have never been orange, so we couldn't betray them. Here is the jutchen treachery and the subtlety of the subject and the obvious. He turned out to be a real political son of Kuchma and even spit him out as a usurper. It is known that the Socialists personally supported Yashchenka on the basis of the political agreement signed by him and Alexander Moroz on November 6, 2004, in which Yashchenko made a very specific commitment. First of all, Yushchenko made a commitment to implement the social cluster of problems offered by socialists: minimum wages and pensions at least a minimum of living, lower prices and tariffs in the municipal sphere, return savings to citizens, and ensure the implementation of constitutional standards on free education and health care. Have any of this Yushchenko done? On the contrary, it is only now that the coalition of the Party of Regions, Socialists and Communists is going to be living on wages and pensions. Yashchenko made a commitment to all the savings laws; he did not become the master of the word, and he never was. And in raising tariffs, it's his fault, because he's the one who broke Ukraine's deal on barter pay for Russian gas in favor of his environment. We were betrayed by Yushchenko and on the ground. He and Frost signed an obligation to immediately enforce a law banning the sale of agricultural land, and by becoming president, he signed an order for the sale of land. He was stopped by the Supreme Council, but he insisted on including the sale of land in all the well - known apostasus of the national Bible, Universal. The Yushchenka and Moroz political treaty stated: “The parties have agreed to promote a judicial distinction between acts of illegal privatization of strategically important objects”. As for the “Criminals”, this was done and a dot was placed on it. Instead, Yushchenko insisted on privatization of the Turboatoma, Odessa Airport and other strategic objects. As for the park factory, Yushchenko personally promised not to give up this high - tech enterprise at a rally in South America. Betrayal? Betrayal, of course! Similarly, Yushchenko and Moroz signed commitments to carry out political reform by January 1, 2005. Who today has led the fight against reform? Not a fight, but a war? Yuchenko. This idea of his fix is the reason for his war with the Constitution, the creation of an artificial political crisis in Ukraine. It's not just an internal-Ukrainian political betrayal, it's a betrayal of a new civilization with its humanitarian tendency. This is a course for the return of Ukraine to the times of Caligula, Nero, Torquemade, and to the fascist systems of Hitler, Salazar, and Batista. And then there's enough conscience to talk about some morality. Similarly, Yushchenko betrayed our agreements to promote a faster investigation of resonant criminal cases, political killings, the immediate withdrawal of Ukrainian soldiers from Iraq, the adoption of a law on the order of departure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u7	Let me finish. Kuzmenko gives him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u8	The current and future presidents of Ukraine, and so forth. I'm not saying that Yushchenko, like Kuchma, is holding back the signing of the law on special investigation committees of the Supreme Council. And his current fear of the Constitutional Court ruling on his illegal orders to dissolve the Supreme Council, the release of constitutional judges who do not support his adventure, in fact, he went on a full-scale coup. The cowards always go to hell, and it doesn't matter who's pushing him to do it, their bolognas and boys with delusional puppets, or those 20 C.I.S.C. who are supposed to be in charge of the coup, the responsibility for everything is vested in Yushchenko. And he will not be able to escape responsibility when the time comes to answer, he will be fully responsible for the betrayal. That is why we, the socialists, repent to the people of Ukraine for supporting Yushchenk in the election of the President. He betrayed us, but he betrayed you. Is it by chance all that he is making today? No, it's not. Yushchenko had long been on the team that had destroyed Ukraine, and he was the author and leader of monetary policy, which by compressing money, destroyed two thirds of the Ukrainian economy. Time will tell whether it was basic ignorance or a conscious course to break up, and there is no fight against inflation. Yushchenko always went against progressive forces and at the decisive moment of the action “For Ukraine without Kuchma!” he called the fighters with the totalitarian regime, people with a clear conscience “fascists”. Today, in manic greed, he is unlimited in power, but because of his own lack of control, he is unable to give advice, including open reactionaries, adventurers, people with a criminal record. With all the demands and traditions of the people, Yushchenko must resign, but he has no moral basis for doing so. Therefore, the simultaneous presidential and parliamentary elections, which were approved by the Supreme Council, are the only way to clear the political field of Ukraine and bring to power the honours that hurt the fate of Ukraine, its people and every man in Ukraine who can work and hold accountable for what they have done. To conclude, I do not have the revealed truth: “Cepical presidents and diapers have one thing in common – they need to be changed for the same reason, and it needs to be done in time not to turn Ukraine’s life into a diaper swamp.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u9	Thank you. Ivan Sidorovich. Mybeard and Korsakov are handing over their right to speak to Kiselov. Please check on the monitor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to ask you to continue to act within the Constitution and to avoid radical action and calls to prevent the President from introducing an emergency situation into the country, because even in two days of state of emergency in the country, there can be so many disasters that will be very and very difficult to predict. Just because we did not go beyond the constitutional field, we were supported by the European Union and PARJE, and, I'm sure, supported by Ukrainian citizens. And the voters have come to realize that Yushchenko and his environment are only interested in absolute authority, although at the time they had it, they did absolutely nothing good for the people. Today, they do not care that the state’s turmoil has led to a halt in reforms: both judicial and tax and health and the 7 billion that the Cabinet has allocated to the reform of the LHC may not be achieved today. We understand that, unfortunately, Ukraine, as an unarmed state, has entered the field of geopolitical interests and, above all, the United States, which, without asking our consent, are already deciding for us that we are going to be among the 12 countries in whose territory systems will be deployed, the anti-missile systems of the NATO bloc and said this co-worker of the U.S. Department on the second day after Yushchenko stated that this is not even the case. I also want to remind you that the U.S. Congress passed a law on the allocation of funds for Ukraine's accession to NATO. And I propose that these funds be sent to a nationwide referendum to ask the people of Ukraine, and whether they want to go to NATO after what happened to Yugoslavia that went off the map of the world today, whether they want to know what they did to Iraq, and they're threatening to do to Iran. And early parliamentary elections are not needed by Yushchenk to improve the lives of the people. He understands that without amendments to electoral legislation, the political timetable in parliament will not change. [[to be open, not closed party lists]] And apparently, the elections will be held until the political forces come to Parliament, which are dullly voting for Ukraine's accession to NATO. That's what this is all about. Regrettably, there is today a real threat to the division of Ukraine into two nations. Politicians from Lviv are already calling for this, and they are already talking about it on the Ukrainian Truth website. So I would like to invite the Speaker of the Parliament of Moroz Alexander Alexandrovitch and Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich, to address the leadership of the countries, the grants of our national sovereignty and territorial integrity, which you remember, first of all, Russia, China and other countries that signed the relevant political agreement when Ukraine took down missile complexes with nuclear warheads on board. The next and most important moment. The President of Ukraine, by issuing Decree No. 2 on the early termination of parliamentary powers, admitted that his first decree had lost legal effect. And the second decree signed by him and the decree published today has no legal force because he was accepted with a violation of the procedure, because no matter how many orders he has signed, he has to go through the procedure, he has to consult with the leaders of the Supreme Council, the leaders of the parliamentary factions and the committees. He did not do so, so his decree is invalid; Parliament is today legitimate. And the consultations are not meant to inform us that we have to be removed from power, but rather that we have a common position on the future, if they are recognised by the court, of the future parliamentary term elections. And the decision to release the judges of the Constitutional Court. Without the Supreme Council's decision to be released for breach of oath, this is an illegal decision, so the judges today are legitimate, the President's order is invalid. In the jurisprudence of small things, this will be proved by a court of law. Dear colleagues, considering that no President of Ukraine has had such insolent disregard for the Constitution if the President's decrees were to be annulled by the courts as those issued in violation of the Constitution. And also realizing that Yushchenko himself will never resign, nor will he voluntarily agree to undergo a medical examination, I propose to address the people of Ukraine as provided for by the Constitution and through our political forces to organize a three-way referendum. The first question is, are you in favour of or against the holding of parliamentary parliamentary elections for the term. You are in favour or against the holding of presidential presidential elections in the first place. You are “in favour” or “against” of holding simultaneous parliamentary and presidential elections. And let the people say for themselves what they think about it, it's a constitutional norm, by the way. And the last. I would like to warn once again that we have warned the Cabinet of Ministers that by no means before the Constitutional Court's decision, they have no right to issue loans, no reserve fund, no money for illegal parliamentary term elections from Ukraine's budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u11	Thank you, Vasil Alexiovich. Smushuh is passing on the word to Hannih Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, yesterday on one of the television channels, a deputy from the Sivuli faction, finally confirmed that the scenario of the force option is possible in Ukraine and that the President is actually ready for it and does not consider it impossible to do so. The fact of this confirmation cannot help but call an association at a time when military conditions were introduced in the neighbouring Poland, things were calm, quiet at night, and there were tanks on the streets for the morning, and TV screens were told by the commissioners. It has been a long time since that day, but Jarusel still has problems with the law and has not been washed clean for years. I, just in case, wanted to remind Viktor Yuschenek how to remind another story more freshly when, in the time of “Ukraine without Kuchma”, the second President of Poland, Alexander Kwasniewski, said to Leonid Danilovich: “Leonide Danilovich, democracy is like a suit, it can be awkwardly disguised, but when taken, you can stay naked.” [[the stock]] Victor Andryovich, you've always been very elegant in wearing a democratic suit, but it's been a month since your costume has been eating the sugar mile. And I'm afraid, Victor Andryovich, you can stay naked! We fear that your actions, Mr. President, will not split Ukraine, because the story of the West Ukrainian People's Republic may repeat itself, but will the story of January 21st and the Fourth Universal be repeated, and whether the Ukrainian Assembly Act will be announced again, and how many generations of Ukrainians will have to wait for Ukraine to reunite. Consider this, Victor Andriyovich, and consider your role in the history of Ukraine, a story that you know so well and that, as Winnichenko said, you cannot read without a brooch. Now in front of you, Victor Andriyovich, as in the classic Ukrainian story, there are three roads: you go left, you find the split and you go right, you find the split. And you go straight, follow the way of the law and the way of the truth, and the truth will free you from those nets that your lieutenants, those Komsomolians, the secretaries who came around you and suddenly put on a mask of Ukrainian nationalists, and those thugs from.. who hope that someone has forgotten their past. European Commission Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner has just stated that the political crisis in Ukraine is a matter of concern, the internal affairs of Ukraine. In other words, the world waved its hand at us, but do whatever you want. That's why you, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u13	Let me finish. Because they're talking to me right now. Let me finish, please. Louder.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u14	That's why you, Victor Andryovich, and you, Victor Fedorovich, and you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, are called upon to enter the negotiations again. Don't look at the world waving its hand at us, make sure our people don't wave their hand at us. Let us sit at the negotiating table and resolve our political crisis peacefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u15	Galunenko Verni Dubov gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u16	Verni Dubov John, Ukraine. Dear friends! The cause of the political crisis in Ukraine is a series of unconstitutional decrees by the President of Ukraine and, first of all, chronologically, these are decrees of the so-called dissolution of the Supreme Council. You say, talk-talk about it. Yeah, that's what it's supposed to be, probably talk about, and we'll take the court's chances, if it doesn't work, we'll release someone from the judges, and then they'll turn around. No, it's not. Without a legal constitutional solution, all matters cannot be resolved. We're being pushed in 2004, in a year of political decisions by the Supreme Council and the Supreme Court, and now by political decisions by the President, the Constitutional Court and so on. If we do not stop and allow the Constitutional Court to reach conclusions, we will not follow these conclusions ourselves – it is a repetition of lawlessness. And the dismissal of the judges of the Constitutional Court just in the process of dealing with a case that has not yet been completed by direct presidential decrees without any specific charges, with the violation of all procedures and without any opinion of the judicial authorities, is a demonstration of power, the acquisition of imperial powers, the deliberate suppression of fear in society and the intimidation of all judges and civil servants of all authorities and, above all, the law enforcement agencies. See, this will be the case with anyone who may have a different opinion. Where are the constitutional principles of the activities of judges in general and of the judges of the Constitutional Court in particular referred to in article 126 of the Constitution, which the President is based on in the decrees on liberation, independence and inviolability. The Law on the Status of Judges contains a whole chapter three, which deals with guarantees of the independence of judges, ways to ensure this independence, which speaks of the inadmissibility of interference with the work of the judge in the exercise of justice. And here, for the first time in the history of the world's judiciary, the judge of the Constitutional Court, who is in the process of bringing about the unconstitutionality of the President's actions, is the President and is in the process of deciding whether to release this judge. Can you think of a more cynical pretense from the judiciary at all, because it's really a show, speaking as the term "guarantee." I've never seen a show like this before. This will enter the crossover of textbooks under the constitutional law of all countries. In accordance with the principles of independence and inviolability, the breach of an oath should be initiated by the judiciary itself, in this case by the judges of the Constitutional Court. I think colleagues of wheat and stanic will express their own views, but the Supreme Council cannot today stand apart from such lawlessness and stand firm in defense of the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u17	Let me finish. And try.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u18	I mean, the Supreme Council has to take its decision on this. Because we're being pushed to go to the President's Administration with our sticks. No, we're not going to do that, we're going to go there, but with the Constitution and maybe. with the Bible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u19	Thank you. We've used the time spent speaking from the deputies, from the factions. Let us briefly sum it up. This is where Vasil Alexiyovich called the head of the Supreme Council a speaker, and I ask that we do not confuse the Ukrainian and Russian language with foreign words. There is a position defined in the Constitution, the Head of the Supreme Council. I'm not an insult, I'm just saying it to keep my word clean. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists that we continue speaking again from the deputies, from factions for 15 minutes. If you don't mind, I can put it to a vote, but that's, you could say, a deviation from the rule. What do you think? Please, who's in charge of continuing the discussion for 15 minutes? [[10:44:52]] For 247 Please, Popescu instead of Mironenko. I'm sorry, Kolechenko's on his way. Wait, Koleschenko, and then Mironenko, and then Popesko instead of Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u20	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. I must say that the guarantor of political instability today is pleased to play the role of a politically attractive ring. This sick, sick person who was poisoned by Mrs. Timoshenko today has set up a farce called "Not a Day Without Order". It is becoming increasingly clear to us that all actions by Mr. Yushchenko are outside the Constitution, outside the framework of the law, beyond the bounds of common sense. The open debate on the legal thrust of where the paragraph is correctly written, where an article is correctly spoken is smoke. The most important smoke behind this smoke has been the preparation and organization of the coup d'état that is being implemented since the autumn of last year. Whatever we say and call for here, this plan is, in a methodical manner, being pushed into our lives. The challenge of this coup d'état: a change in the state order, the construction of the Yushchenkov monarchy at all costs, the destruction of dissension, the construction of monotonum, a mono-State that will speak mono-language and go to the mono-church. It's all clear and obvious. Today, it is becoming increasingly obvious that a solution to this conflict is being prepared. There are already military units that have already sworn a written oath to the citizen of Yushchenko to comply with his illegal decrees. As a rule, they are people who have already passed, according to the Ukrainian schools in NATO countries, and it is understandable why they are willing to take action against the people. But I must say that there are already military forces and units ready to defend the Constitution and against the illegal actions of Mr. Yushchenko. I would like to remind this gentleman of the fate of the Ukrainian People's Republic, as it all ended when the nationalist corner and the desire to be a monarch led to the fact that the country had broken up and that we had received only 40 to 50 years ago a great State, which is 15 years old and the State of Ukraine is independent. That is why I would like to recommend to this Mr. Yushchenko that his corner and those companies that are taking him to war with the Ukrainian people today will end up sadly first for the people -- he will escape and his call will escape, and Ukraine will be crushed here. I would therefore like to point out that the people of Ukraine are much wiser than certain political clowns who see themselves only in politics, not in our country of Ukraine. The people of Ukraine will be able to stand both against the army and against the villains who are willing to break the Constitution to satisfy the political ambitions of certain political villains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u21	The word has Popescu. After him, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u22	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Honorable colleagues, noble Ukrainian people and citizens of all nationalities! I want to pay attention to what our colleagues in this rostrum have already said. Yesterday, Ukraine's National Deputy of the President's BUTa Sivuliski on the “5 channel” stated that the President in his actions could go to a strong option, but I would like to remind all patriots, if they are Ukrainian citizens, of part 4 of article 17 of the Constitution: “The armed forces of Ukraine and other military formations cannot be used by anyone to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens or to bring down the constitutional system, remove or impede their activities.” We repeat and draw the attention of the Minister of Defense, the heads of the BSC and other structures, that the norms of the Constitution are the norm of direct action. Moreover, article 19 provides that the legal order in Ukraine is based on principles that no one can be compelled to do what is not provided for by law. So we ask the generals, the officers, and the soldiers not to comply with illegal orders and instructions. This is true of government officials at all levels. It will now be very urgent for all to read once again the 60 and 68 articles of the Constitution, according to which no one is obliged to carry out manifestly criminal orders or orders, and for the issue and execution of a manifestly criminal order or order there is legal responsibility. In addition, ignorance of laws does not absolve us of legal responsibility. Hence, there will be no age for illegal orders. From the foregoing, we urge everyone to act only in the constitutional field, because this is the only way out of the crisis, to avoid civil opposition, to preserve the integrity of our nation. Dear colleagues, when I became Ukraine’s national deputy for the third time, I swore an oath to Ukraine in which I swore in my activities to adhere exclusively to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen. I urge the President of Ukraine to act in the same way, within the framework of the Constitution and in the interests of all citizens, not only in the interests of adventurous destructive opposition. Victor Andryovich, make your final choice. If you feel like the President of Ukraine, return to the constitutional field. If you are only a leader of the opposition, resign, at least that will be fair. And may God help you in this election, and you are a man of faith. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u23	Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarchuk speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u24	Dear colleagues. National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. From what I've heard, that we're going to get hot and we're going to call the President's next and second appearances of the constitutional beating, the trampling of rude, cynical and stupid, I think it's going to change a little bit. Because our calls remain as in the famous fairy tale of Krilov, when one character “listens to eat”. I think you can do this analogy in this situation. Although we certainly need to use our capabilities, including the help of the media, to prove our point and explain the situation to people, to continue because more and more people understand who is pushing us and where. And the first-class rallies that went to all the district centers, including us in Winnitz, showed, and communication with people that people understand all of this very well. But I think we need to activate the legislative activity now. In our Committee on Social Policy and Labour, there are more than ten bills now being prepared that are already ready for the second reading procedure, such as the Employment Act, the social dialogue that has been introduced, by the way, by the head of state, the Labour Code of Ukraine and others that we absolutely need today. And such bills are on all the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to start preparing and discussing here, in the Supreme Council, changes to the Constitution that we talked about, changes to the law on the election of national deputies in order to really make these lists transparent, controlled, and so on, to work these documents out for the future. I, by the way, registered a bill amending the law on election of Ukrainian national deputies, which provides for the mandatory provision of mental - health information to candidates in the national parliament. I think you're gonna support me right now. I think we should accept the document today, as proposed, and stand up for the judges of the Constitutional Court. We are aware of the scenarios of a force-driven solution to this situation that have taken place on Victory Day. But we will not allow this or allow the President to ignore Parliament as the only legislative and representative body of the state. If he doesn't come, on May 9, we'll start a signature assembly for the president's resignation. And it's going to be normal, and it's going to be logical, and it's going to be symbolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Instead of Bertash, the word is given to Platinum, with Bertash’s consent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, national deputies, distinguished representatives of the media, the road and the Ukrainian people, I do not want to repeat today and stress how many violations our President has committed by his instructions. I want to remind you that they started a long time ago. According to the Constitution, the President should refer annually to the people of Ukraine and the Supreme Council with a message on Ukraine's internal and external policies. Unfortunately, this didn't happen in 2006 or 2007. It is more important for the president to sneer on the basis of his closest associates ’ line of work, and to seize as quickly as possible the power that the minority loses, and more precisely, the opposition is hostile to the people. Why do I say that? Because on May 1, or two days ago, the people of Ukraine received increased pensions, wages. The government of Viktor Yanukovic and the majority of Parliament have found an opportunity of 7.5 billion more coming into the budget, and they have already been distributed. A government decision is being prepared tomorrow, and we, the coalition, the Economic Policy Committee, which I have the honour to lead, have prepared, and the government will decide to further improve the lives of the Ukrainian people in increasing the income of every Ukrainian. The opposition is in shock. When there is still an opportunity, not today, to do what is being done, lawlessness is about to return to power, because every day the government and most people do better and better the lives of the Ukrainian people. I would like to say, Victor Andriyovich, to you as President of Ukraine: first, according to the Constitution, no one can usurp the power that belongs to the State, the people. Orders like that. You've seen that the Constitutional Court's decision is prepared legally and constitutionally, and as an explosion, two decrees for the release of judges. But end up having fun all over the world, and I want to give you advice. God will support Ukraine, most of it, and the government in what they do. So do not waste your time: issue a decree, release the Lord God, and prepare a place for yourself to work in the event of an impeachment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u27	I'm asking for no hints. Please have the word of Taras Cranowil instead of Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Alexander, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, our television and radio listeners! The fact of the legal wayward that is now taking place is aimed at avoiding a decision by the Constitutional Court, avoiding political, I am speaking again, not about any legal, political responsibility of the President for non-constitutional actions. With regard to the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court, this is a totally illegal act. This implies that, according to the Constitution, the President does not have the right to dismiss the judges of the Constitutional Court, article 149, referred to by the pseudologists of the President, speaks of guarantees of the independence of judges that he no longer allows a single decision of their fate, plus refers to article 126 on the grounds for the dismissal of judges. Once again, the grounds, not the order of release. The order of release is described in 153 articles in the following words: the order and organization of the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is carried out under the law “On the Constitutional Court of Ukraine”. This law places a very complex and serious responsibility with legal conclusions, with appropriate commissions, committees and all the proper legal functions solely on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so the President's action in principle is unconstitutional. Why did I mention this legal nihilism in this context? Because there are two moments that are disturbing enough. The first moment, the June 24 election can't take place. Shortly before his decree of April 26th, the President himself had said that the legislative framework that existed did not allow for the legal and legal financing of elections, in addition to the short-term elections. Then his decree appears, there are unconstitutional actions. We knew about the schedule of these actions, we had already announced in advance from this rostrum that the judges of the Constitutional Court would be released, that other actions would be taken, and that the next point would be the President's decree that a completely unconstitutionally unconstitutional private composition of the CWC should be conducted in an illegal manner by new successive parliamentary elections. Yeah, well, we won't let that happen. We have sufficient legal grounds to prevent such illegal acts from taking place. The President may go to other harsher things, but in such a case, the President should remember that he will bear all the responsibility for what will happen in Ukraine, for the actual division of Ukraine, for the Lord's sake, so that we do not get to it, but this is only a matter for the President. We understand that it is not possible for the Parliament to work in a normal, peaceful way, to work in a peaceful manner by acts of opposition and not by the constitutional President. We agree to an extra election, but only in legal order is not based on ultimatums or constitutional decrees. There will be a decision on behalf of Yushchenka, we will execute it, there will be a decision of the Constitutional Court on our behalf, we will gather, we will come to a consensus and we will conduct the elections honestly and legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u29	Thank you. I would ask all of us to use both the rostrum of Parliament and to speak anywhere, not to ask for anything. Once again, I emphasize to no one, to ask nothing, to do their job. Even in the Holy Scriptures, I remember in Russian the words: “Do not put your trust in a prince, nor in the sons of men. And the people will stay. And the Supreme Council, as the expression of this people will remain, work and work, I think we should get out of this. That's the first one. Secondly, with regard to some comments, summarizing the performances of today. Ivan Sidorovich's essay on repentance. He probably wasn't full in explaining the socialist position in 2004. No one is doubtful, especially among those present today in the Hall, that we needed to change the system of power, to make changes to the Constitution so that there was no reason for usurping power through the system of authoritarianism. And that's exactly what we came up with. Without the votes that Victor Yushchenka was then supporting, it was not possible to raise the necessary number — more than 300. So on November 6th, Victor Yushchenko and I signed the agreement. That's another thing that he refused many of the points he spoke about, John Sidorovich, but to vote differently, and voted 404 deputies for making changes to the Constitution was necessary. [[It's something to remember.]] And another way to say it is that we supported Viktor Andryovich's candidacy, because otherwise there would be a third election for the third term of the previous President, with all the consequences that have been put in place. And everyone knows, especially from the Party of Regions, I think they might be able to go into more detail, their leadership, tell us how a new election scheme was developed with a third term vote. If that had not been done, all the questions would have been settled in the first round from the very beginning. But we will not go back to history, we have today's history with which to look for the right way out. Why are the two judges of the Constitutional Court released by Presidential Decree today? Taras Cranovil was right about the violation of the principle of the independence of judges, which is the basis of law. And the whole point is either to demoralize the Constitutional Court or to block its work, because there's no guarantee that the court will take a decision in favour of the initiators of the President's Order and its own. That's why we understand it perfectly, and I hope the citizens of Ukraine understand it, there's only one, I'd say so, a moral condition. Notice, every day, especially on holiday days, when people would somehow like to calm their souls, we get steps once and for all that destabilize people's moods, the situation in the state, and it raises obvious questions to who's responsible for these things, why do all this. The proposal made here by Hanna Mikolayevna Herman is absolutely correct. But I just want to remind you that we've always been negotiating, and we've always been looking for compromises. I want to say that in the debate on the Constitutional Court Act, on the Universal, on the frame, on the same orders, our interlocutors wanted only conflict, because they chose their way and negotiations, it was an entourage just to camouflage this path to conceal it in order to find a basis for themselves. We don't give them reasons, they're getting more and more, as Hanna Herman said, with a suit where the mile has already eaten everything, where it can and can't be. Tomorrow, the Cabinet of Ministers will consider extremely important issues related to the social sphere. I realize that some of the dependent media will try to distort the steps that we saw even yesterday during the demonstration, the aid, the payment to war veterans, the participants in the fighting, and so forth. It was like it was falling down there without the efforts of the Cabinet of Ministers, without the influence of the coalition, and so on. Let us be worthy in this regard and not be contentious in this regard. But in itself decisions are of principle important, and people need to understand that the coalition and government it created are fulfilling the commitments they made before the elections and during the creation of the coalition. Ah, as far as we're concerned, we're in the legal field. We don't go beyond it. We're true, we're tolerant, we're enduring, we're witnessing strength, because it's only a weakling who's experiencing hysteria. We're not going to be hysterical, we're going to be right behind us, and we're going to prove that the truth is based on the Constitution and the law exists in the state and we're going to do everything we need for society. Thank you. Now, with regard to questions to be considered. But before that, we wanted to remind them that 1 number and 2 numbers had no denominators, and we didn't congratulate them. 1 number: White Alexei Petrovich and Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich were born. [[Applause]] It's got to be like a holiday to make it cheaper, I get it. And the 2nd number is Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich, Kostinov Evgen Semenović and Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] We have to say that the third number went a long way from the second number, which is for Alexander Mikolaiovich, the suggestion was from colleagues by faction. We need to consider a simplified procedure if we, if you agree to do so, draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. I'm asking you to support the very procedure of dealing with this issue, i.e. a reduced procedure. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:09:16]] For 245 Decision taken. Report by Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u30	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft Law is intended to resolve one important detail in the rights of economic operators in the exercise of their basic functions; it is a system of permits. Today, we have a situation where the subject of farming is to receive about 35 arbitrary acts from local self-government authorities. And the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, its 7th article, established that operators should receive documents of a permissive nature within five working days. The Local Self-Government Act, which regulates the activities of local councils, does not allow these issues to be resolved within five days, since the Council session is to be convened no more than once a quarter. And the executive boards of councils are not less than once a month, but when there is a need, they can do so at least every day. So there is a proposal from the government of Ukraine that we complete the 26th article of the Law on Local Self-Government yet another right of the Council so that the board can adopt a decision on delegation of powers in the field of the issue of permit documentation to the executive board. If the board makes such a decision, it will be up to the executioner who will be able to deal with the issue of granting permits to economic operators. That is the essence of the draft law that is proposed for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u31	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, Your Honor, I would like to pay attention to one thing in this law. The committee supported the bill in principle and asked the Supreme Council to adopt it in the first reading. At the same time, attention should be paid when preparing for the second reading. There are two groups of powers, local self-government. There is a group of plenipotentiaries who belong exclusively to the council and there is a group of plenipotentiaries who are behind executive committees or behind a rural, rural, urban head. Regrettably, this project does not specify exactly what authority they want, is passed on to executive bodies or heads, and this may lead, for example, to the granting of permission to land sites by no council, namely the exclusive authority of the council, but by individual government officials, individual officials. You can't let that happen. Therefore, when preparing for the second reading and committee, it will be necessary to pay attention and I think we will prepare ourselves in such a way that we can distinguish the mandate more clearly and not allow abuse for individual officials. In general, the committee asks the Supreme Council to support this project in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, who wants to participate in the discussion of two – “for”, two – “against”? Yes, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please, the Communist faction. Get ready, Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u34	Pomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u35	Madmarenko Georgie, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, it is clear that the procedure for granting local authorities and local self - control of permits, documents of a permissive nature, must be rebuttal. And so I think that the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue, which provides for the transfer to the executives of their own powers regarding the issuance of documents, can be adopted in the first reading. Such recommendations have also been issued by our committee, the National Building and Local Self-Government Committee, since April 20, and the same proposals have been made by the Chief Expert Office. But a number of comments will have to be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. WHAT is meant. First of all, the situation of these changes needs to be aligned with the Law “On the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities”, which is the case. The Law “On Local Self - Rule ” 26 stipulates that there are a number of powers that are attached to exclusive powers of counsel and counsel. Clearly, these questions are necessarily discussed at meetings of counsel and cannot be passed on to other authorities or officials. So for the second reading, we need to determine what powers the board can delegate to executive bodies, but, or council heads. I think that, and here Kuzmenko's speaker said that land affairs are the most important issue, in any case not to be included in the list of issues that might be referred to executive bodies. So the second question will have to be clearly defined by the list of these issues that are being passed on, and we'll take it now in the first reading, and we'll take the observation and the scientific export.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u37	Gorbenko Natalia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u38	The bill in question really regulates today the rules between the law on local self-government and the law on the free system in the field of economic activity. These are vital changes today, for all the subjects of the household have been given these permits for a very long time. And these changes will allow today’s operators to get permission to do business more quickly. Well, I suggest we take it on the first reading, but we still have to, if we're going to do this, set up a list of the permits that need to be given, and give the executive authority the right to make decisions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u39	Thank you. Question completed. We'll make decisions. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. Bill number 3032. Please vote. [[11:17:55]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let us go to the chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision - making. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of Bill No. 3250, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on social protection of persons with disabilities. Please vote. [[11:18:37]] For 252 The question is included. Let's get to it. The word is given to the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Heleny Vasilyvny Hotchy. Please be prepared by the Radziewski Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! A bill that provides for a number of essential benefits for people with disabilities, including those with disabilities, is brought to your attention. With the adoption of this law, children with disabilities and the disabled of the first and second groups will have the right to be enrolled in higher education institutions with positive results. We increase and propose in this bill to increase the age of children from 16 years to 18 years in order for these children to receive assistance in the event of loss of a caregiver if the father is lost in production, insurance payments under the Social Insurance Fund due to temporary loss of employment. It is also proposed that public support be provided to those media that will address the issue to raise awareness of social protection for persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been reviewed by our Social Committees in the Supreme Council, and has found support in the Science and Experimental Authority. Please support this law in the first reading. We will consider your suggestions and your comments to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u42	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Olena Vasilovno, I rather have no question, but rather a position as head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, as representative of the faction of the Company of Ukraine. Of course, the document that is being submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is necessary, timely, I am grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for initiating it. I want to say more. In view of the fact that the committee had decided to take it on the first reading, a number of other committees of profile had suggested that it should be accepted in general, taking into account one amendment that did not apply to entrance examinations, but rather to preliminary examinations. So my suggestion is that this document should be accepted not only in the first reading but also in general, taking into account the proposal made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I think this document is timely, it needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u43	Dear Peter Stepanovich, distinguished national deputies! We are prepared to support such a proposal by the Supreme Council Committee, and we will be grateful if, in view of this amendment, the law is adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Stoyan Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u45	Dear Olena Vasilevno, certainly the law must be passed, but unfortunately there is no person here who is directly concerned with the disabled, Mr. Suškević, who should be on this issue, is not politics, and this is the life of many persons with disabilities. I have a question for you. Please tell me how the introduction organization will be provided, will any quotas be allocated as quotas, as a list, or how? So, what is the mechanism, really, to create the tax conditions for people with disabilities in higher education? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, distinguished national deputies! The procedure for enrolling in public procurement is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers and will be amended accordingly, so that children with disabilities and with disabilities of the first and second groups will be able on equal terms with others when they receive a positive result when they are being tested, and they are entitled to enroll in educational institutions. And in doing so, Alexander Mikolaiovich, I want to remind you that there is a rule of law that presupposes a dominant right when you get equal grades to count those children with disabilities who. and children who are raised in homes where a father or a mother is disabled in those families where mother and mother are disabled. So there are a number of other advantages that children with disabilities use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u47	Helen Vasilovna, and I'll have a question, although this is the Cabinet of Ministers, but I have a question. They suggest that this law takes effect from the day of publication. In my opinion, there's an extra cost to the budget. Is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the social insurance funds, which are self-governing organizations, have approved budgets, and within the budgets of these funds, we will be able to do it completely from the day of the adoption of this law, from the day it was published, without any additional expenditure from the State Budget, because these are the costs of self-governance organizations. They supported the bill. As far as government procurement is concerned, it is within the budget that has been approved for this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u49	And that's why I'm asking that it's all self-governing and self-governance, but counting students takes place at the expense of the State Budget, not social funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u50	Adam Ivanovich, but the number of seats will not change, only the use of funds for government procurement will change.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u51	Well, it's bad that the number of seats doesn't change because the number of seats is going to decrease because we're expanding the audience that's going to be accepted as a government order. So a hundred people are being accepted. If 50 or 90 falls within the category of this law, only 10 seats remain. Well, that's clear. All right, have a seat, please. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the fact is that every year in the State Budget there is a social cost of increasing assimilation. So I wouldn't think they'd be exactly the same size. And we'll take your offer into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u53	Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, the head of the committee Alexei Vasilovich Radziewski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u54	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Honourable National Deputies, a bill submitted today by the Government of Ukraine, provides for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation, including article 22 of the basic law on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities in Ukraine. And the purpose of this bill is to establish, at the legislative level, State guarantees on the predominant inclusion of disabled persons and children with disabilities in higher and vocational and technical institutions, as this issue is now regulated and regulated only by legal regulations. The rest of the changes in this bill are purely technical. The bill was also discussed by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the Committee on Legal Policy. It is also supported by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, with a single comment on the clarification of one term in this bill, namely, a term of association with a positive result, and in considering on a professional committee in principle, we have come to the conclusion that you should consider replacing the words “introduction exams” with the words “introduction trials”, since today the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science has introduced a test regime. In general, as a result of the drafting and discussion of this bill, introduced by the government, we are proposing to adopt this law as a whole in today's session. This will be another step in the way of ensuring equal opportunities, rights for our category. our society that needs it, that is, the disabled and children with disabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u55	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sign up. There's a question. There's a question. Stay in the rostrum. Please, almost your neighbor, Capuk, wants to ask you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u56	Stepan Capuch, faction of Party regions. I support this bill. And I have a request to the deputies and to the committee: to support and adopt this bill as a whole in order to allow this season for persons with disabilities to enter higher education institutions. I therefore fully support this bill and the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u58	Well, that was a wish. Okay. Thank you, sit down. Please, who wants to participate in the discussion, the faction record. It's a complete procedure. Yes, please, who of the deputies wants to participate? Yes, please, nine minutes. Please, Zybenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u59	Dear colleagues. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear citizens of Ukraine! In my speech, I would like to stress that in society today, especially in the so-called opposition, there is a great deal of talk about the legality of those legal acts adopted by the Supreme Council. I would like to confirm once again that during the April-month period, and I am happy that the beginning of May confirms this trend, among those bills that are being considered by the Supreme Council, many documents that are of a very social nature. I mean, according to the initiative of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, amendments have been made to the Pensions Act for special merit before Ukraine, which has allowed for the expansion of the circle of persons entitled to this pension supplement. A decision was made in the first reading of changes to a series of laws regarding the introduction of a cumulative component of pension insurance. So I would like to say that the continuation of this trend and today's document is a powerful confirmation of the coalition and the Supreme Council's efforts to solve these problems. I want to say that this initiative that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by passing this bill, is very timely, is socially and life-sustaining. That is why I am proposing to uphold this bill today. Why support, as I said, by asking questions from the place, not only in the first reading, but also in general, because things are absolutely obvious, things that people with special needs are waiting for, and things that we're going to be grateful for from the public organization of people with disabilities who are waiting for this document to be adopted. So once again, I'm proposing this document not only on the first reading, but also on the whole, taking into account the proposal that was made on behalf of the committee, where the initial examinations are replaced by the initial trials. So what we're talking about is that with today's testing, you can also use these possibilities. Thank you, Your Honor, for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, John Bondarchuk, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, speaking on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Committee on Social Policy and Work, which I have the honour to lead, I want to say that we will support this bill and vote for it in general, not just in the second reading, more faithfully, in the first reading. We will vote for him in general. Our committee, which has a direct bearing on social issues, has also considered this bill at its meeting and made such a decision. I would just like to say here that the adoption of such bills in our country, I have already said, speaking earlier, that there are some more than ten ready people who, in one way or another, complement existing laws, polish them and make them, as it were, better evidence that the Supreme Council intends to step by step, “step the steppe”, to improve the current legislation, to make it more humane, and to adapt to the needs of the modern world. For it is precisely, when it comes to this bill, that it is accepted with numerous references to us as national deputies during the election process, for it is directed specifically, in a narrow sphere, but specifically, to the support of individual citizens who have certain health problems. So I don't think we need to convince each other here. We both agreed on the Conciliation Council, both on the Committees of Social Policy and on factions, and let's vote today, and it will be signed, and in a few weeks, it will take effect and it will take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u62	Thank you. Boyko gives the word to Matthew, please. From where? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleague! The problem of people with limited physical capacity is indeed a very serious and sinister problem. And if the primary education system is somehow solved, the problem of higher education remains open to this day at the legislative level. Indeed, the subject is very serious and very vicious, since a person who has completed secondary school or received secondary education has sufficient training has sufficient levels to continue his education system and must be able to obtain higher education in order to find a place in life. And usually, experience and practice show that such people really find their place in life and indeed have a tremendous impact on both society and the State. That is why we are “with” two hands to support this bill. The only thing that I would like to say is that, perhaps if we accept it today on second reading with the amendments and observations that have been made, perhaps this should be taken into account as changes to this law? And if we take it first-reading, we should think about that when we refine it to second-reading so that we don't change the amount or number of people coming to public, so to speak, and for this category of people, we have created a quota. Because, in this way, we do create conditions for children with disabilities, for children with limited physical capacity, but we are thus compromising another category of people who will enter an unaltering number of places. And you should think about that. It may also be necessary to enact the law in a subsequent manner and to amend it since 2009, 2010, but by reserve a certain funding system in the budget, but by reserving a certain number of places in higher education for this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I also stress the importance, social significance, of this bill. And it's a pretty positive fact that I'm particularly stressing that it's not an initiative of the people's deputies, who are quite often initiating those or other bills that don't have their own financial confirmation, but with this initiative, the Cabinet of Ministers came out. And that is encouraging, and this, as it were, gives hope that this law will work. In terms of what we've been talking about. And I've been asking questions and now I've been talking to my colleague Matvienkov, really, there's a problem here, a purely arithmetical problem, and a moral that the number of students in the government order is already defined in advance. Now we're essentially expanding this number, but we're not increasing it, we're leaving it the same way, reducing the possibility of other categories. Since I think we should agree with the committee's proposal, I see that it is not against the government, namely the Ministry of Social Policy, to adopt this law as a whole now as a law, because the state exams are approaching, so to speak, its implementation is approaching. If we stretch it a little bit, we won't be able to do it on these introductory exams. So maybe let's take it as a whole as a law taking into account the amendments that have been made, but let's think about, let's see what this year shows us. And then, given the practice of 2007, it's no exception that we're already going to have to make changes to this law, or to other laws, and for 2008 to expand the public procurement base, but I'm repeating the 2007 practice again, because we can't predict how many children there are going to be in that law. Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee agreed with Kabmin, but to adopt as a whole, as a law under number 3250, namely, the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the social protection of persons with disabilities, taking into account the proposals that have been made here. What instead of induction exams do you write down, testing, or what? Trials, and I would suggest leaving behind the introductory exams, or trials. I mean, what would be the norm for both of us to take into account? Is there no objection? So two rules are recorded then, taking into account this vote, the number 3250 law as a whole, as a law, please vote. [[11:39:41]] For 253 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We had to put it into the agenda and consider a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning social services for social insurance, the author of colleague Hara. But he's asking us, he's calling off this bill for further work, and I'm asking you to vote on this proposal. 3458, about the bill being revoked. [[11:40:28]] For 251 Decision taken. The bill was withdrawn, although it was not included. But let Vasil Georgiyovich work, when he's ready, we can go back to him. We need to incorporate a number of laws into the agenda of the day session. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Registration number 3185. It's a government project. Please vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[11:41:21]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is included. We need to get the bill number 3175 into the agenda of the day session. Draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State and Municipal Property. It's a government bill. Please vote. [[11:41:54]] For 254 A decision has been made. The law is included in the agenda. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. Registration No. 3231. And the subject of the legislative initiative is the government. Please be supportive. [[11:42:32]] For 255 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Priorities for Innovation in Ukraine. Registration number 3388. The subject of the legislative initiative is the government. Please vote. [[11:43:07]] For 255 Decision taken. The vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 3305. Our colleague, Tkachenko, is the author of the legislative initiative. Please vote. [[11:43:46]] For 255 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations". [[concerning the prohibition of the import of certain goods on a duty-free basis]] Bill number 3161, project of colleague Selchenka and others. Please vote. [[11:44:26]] For-47. Work with factions Undecided. It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Masters of Ukraine. [[on the regulation of energy supply issues]] Registration number 3182, author of the legislative initiative of colleague Martinenko. Please vote. [[11:45:05]] For the 15th. So, dear colleagues, I'm addressing the heads of the committees of profile, those bills that we've now included in the agenda, and they're basically bills that have been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, and I'm asking you to work quickly on the committees so that we can look at them as soon as possible. What we planned for today, we did. Before the session is closed, I'm literally a few words, I think maybe you haven't all been able to get to know each other yet, but in some online publications, especially in "Ukrainen Truth" in the last few days, there's an article that estimates how much time we work with you in Parliament. I would like to remind those who have written this material and those who have read this material, that the work of the national deputy is not just a job in the session room, and we don't have to count who is in the session hall. Because the work of the national deputy is two weeks' work in the session room, one week's work in committees and factions and one week's electoral work. It's all the work of the national MPs. And, excuse me, such “incarnations” as you or anyone who has done it in this material, you have to sort out, read documents, the Constitution, first of all, what the national MPs are doing, and then make such calculations. Please, we're going to continue our work, we're working on the committees today, starting work tomorrow at 10 a.m. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Paul Gnatovich, we'll talk to you tomorrow morning.
