ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, radio listeners, television viewers. Today, May 8, Parliament continues its work. I'm asking the MPs to register, we're running a roll-call. [[10:04:08]] The morning session is open. Deputies! Taking advantage of the opportunity and realizing that tomorrow's greatest celebration of our people is Victory Day, I would like to convey on your behalf the greetings to all war veterans, to the participants in the war, to the underground, to the members of the guerrilla forces who are still alive, to the children of war, to the families who remember the advancement of our people during the Great War. To welcome them and to wish them, first of all, good health, confidence that peace will be in our country and that there will be prospects for a better life in the family, to wish them patience, to assure them that none of the war veterans, the participants, especially the war effort, can reproach themselves with anything and no one is right to reprimand that he has come this way of life. It was their feat, which will remain in the memory of the entire nation forever, to welcome them with this festival, I think it is truly the greatest festival of our people. [[Applause]] Today is the birthday of Kuibida deputies Vasil Stepanovich, Odajnik Mikolayovich and Panasovski Oleg Grigorovovich. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Yes, thank you. Then you can arrange where you will celebrate the festival later. In accordance with our decision, we have time to communicate on the situation and effectiveness of Parliament's work by all authorities. I'm asking you to sign up for this. First from factions and then who wants to. Please, it's personal now. With that amount in mind, the offer came in for 45 minutes. Is there no objection? Let's vote because it's still different from the Rules, please for 15 minutes. [[10:07:56]] For 239. It's a matter of procedure, it's supported by deputies. Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich from the Socialist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to start with a popular anecdote. On the basis of the work of the third president of Ukraine, the second president is recognized as a Democrat and a Legal Officer, and the first president is recognized as the image of the saints. Yesterday turned out to be a sign, Victor Yushchenko openly confessed: his willful dream was the elimination of polytreform, the return to the authoritarian model of power that led people to the playgrounds in 2004. Such a step is a natural finale for a man who was never a Democrat but killed himself with the myth of his own messiahry. In time, the public position of Viktor Andriyovich became just a reflection of the absence of any position on the most important issues of state building. Three quotes. Victor Yushchenko. August 2003 I quote: “With political reform coming to an agreement, the next president must give up part of his mandate to the government.” April 2005, quote: “I give you the word: a review of the reform flights, a referendum, or anything else, I will not initiate.” Finally, May 2007: “There is a need for a popular referendum, I insist.” Comments are said to be unnecessary. During today’s state crisis, both in our society and abroad, Victor Yushchenk’s reputation as a democratic politician finally faded. Surprisingly, Europe has found that the guarantor of the Ukrainian Constitution is its main violator. Now we don't see any more among the European leaders of public support for Viktor Andriyovich's actions, and Viktor Yushchenko himself is more concerned about the situation of international mediation. Yuchenko accepts and repeals any decrees, not paying attention to the law. He canceled one illegal decree of dissolution of parliament, issued another. Now he's ready to cancel the second order, issue the third. A year later, Yushchenko declared his decree of resignation of Attorney General Piscoon illegal, and he also annulled it. There are many other examples when the President had to abolish his illegal decrees because they were directly in conflict with legislation. Victor Andriyovich says anecdotally that the opposition must return to Parliament for adoption of a number of laws. First, the opposition cannot return to Parliament without proper procedures, because the opposition has stated that it has already exercised parliamentary powers. Secondly, why would the President change electoral legislation? Let Viktor Andriyovich save the paper, do not save the paper, and issue new decrees, and the Supreme Council will see for itself and determine the order of its work. Third. Without stopping arbitrary interference with the judicial system, without stopping blocking the work of the Constitutional Court, Parliament cannot view it as the President's primary legislative initiatives. Because a man who calls himself President has come a long way in breaking the law. And it can't be justified by the decisions of the Supreme Council, because otherwise, this or other President will think that in Ukraine the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution can act as a guarantor of lawlessness. Fourth. If Parliament agrees with any illegal action by the President and leaves the facts of unlawful interference with the work of the judiciary without a legal assessment, the consequences will be unpredictable. First of all, this will affect the course of future election campaigns. The judiciary will see that there is no opposition to the illegal resignation of judges in the state. The courts will become a toy in the hands of the Presidential Secretariat. If the President’s judicial authority was still far from European rule of law, all formalities will now be rejected definitively. Only the restoration of the status of the Constitutional Court and the legal decisions on the legality or illegality of Yushchenko's decrees can form the basis for political compromise in society. Everything else, it's legal lawlessness and usurpation of power, which cannot be sanctified by the Supreme Council. And I'll remind all of the initiators of lawlessness, these crimes don't have a statute of limitations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u3	Thank you. Peter Simonenko has the word for Kravchenk. He will be followed by Hara from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u4	Dear veterans of the Great Homeland War, guerrillas and subterraneans, soldiers of the rear, dear compatriots! Allow me, on behalf of the Communist Party of Ukraine, to warmly welcome you and to congratulate you on the greatest celebration of the era and all our peoples on the glorious anniversary of the victory. 62. It was the Soviet people who, in support of the anti-Hitler coalition, defeated fascism. It was the Soviet Union that was the core of the struggle and in fact demonstrating to the world the fundamental advantages of the power system, the power of the State. Clearly, our people have defeated the Hitlerites not only with weapons but also with the firmness of the spirit, unwavering faith in the truth of our work. The people of Ukraine have made a worthy contribution to the general victory, and we are proud of it, this victory, which was won by great blood and great then in the ranks of the Red Army, in the guerrilla forces, in the factories of defence, has been forged along with their brothers from other republics. The names of the great generals and the simple soldiers of the great victory will remain in our memory. The names of Alexander Matrosov, Nikolay Gastello, the families of the Sossenites, the young guards, the Olshans, the heroes of Aji Mushkay, all those who have forged this great victory on their personal front. The public sacrifices were paid by our great people, who put on our altar, on the altar of the fight against fascism, and these sacrifices were in vain. Thanks to the transformations that have been made in our country by the attitudes and friendships of our peoples who have helped each other in vain, Ukraine has quickly recovered from the ashes, and many of the members of the Supreme Council have witnessed and witnessed the great achievements that have enabled us to revive our native Ukraine. It has been among the most economically and culturally developed countries in the world for a short period of time. Unfortunately, there has been another disaster in our home today. The so-called reforms that began 16 years ago led to the collapse of the population and the vast majority of Ukrainians to poverty. And we all know how painful it is for a soldier to see the destruction in Ukraine today. The destruction brought about by those who try to destroy the memory of light destroy the graves. And I believe that on this day, we must, all the deputies, express strong opposition to what is happening in Estonia and in Europe, destroying the monuments and graves of those who have defeated fascism. Under the benevolent eye of the orange President in Ukraine, Fascism has lifted his head. Hitler's UN-OPA associates and the SS-Galicin Division are declared heroes and fighters for national liberation. Political adventurers from the ocean are seeking to establish a nationalist dictatorship in the country. For all who want to protect this abuse of the past to ensure a decent future for the people, the relevant slogan presented in Grozno in 1941 “Our cause is the right one — the enemy will be broken and the victory will be over us”. We all call for unity today. We are confident that the present generation of patriots of their people, patriots of their grandfather and great-grandfather will realize that victory in 1945 has not been easy. But today this victory must be again. Dear veterans, 62 years ago you saved the world from fascism. A low son's gift to you for it. Be healthy, happy, and long - lived. Your wisdom and your courage are more important to us today than ever. You are our memory and conscience. You're back on the front tonight. We are proud of this and assure you that we will continue these great advances in the new calculation and in the new dimension. But I would like to welcome the veterans from all of us today, and to address our young people. It is for us today that we need to pass on this experience and teach them to follow the example of our grandparents. They know how to defeat fascism and defeat poverty and destruction, and our victory, along with future generations of young people, is yet to come. And when I conclude my statement with respect to my colleagues, I would like to ask your consent. Let us be one of the unique representatives of this great victory – Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov, who burned four times in the tank, is headed by the Veteran organization of Ukraine, a real army general who deserves to carry these stars on his own.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u5	Thank you. And to John Alexiovich, thank you, and to Peter Mikolaiovich for the kind words of thanks. The word is Hara Vasili Grigorovich of the factions of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u6	Dear veterans, we are your children and grandchildren once again to admit that we remain before you, the saviors of the world, in an unpaid debt. For over 60 years, we've been separated from the light festival of victory, and you never really got a thank you for your feat. During Ukraine's independence, there have been attempts to make our country happy, rich and you special citizens of Ukraine. These attempts were made by the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic in 2004. At that time, the minimum pension, the poverty pension, rose to the minimum of living when social benefits were increased. But it's 2005-2006, and we've lost a lot of it. Today, once again, the Supreme Council, the coalition, the Januković Government, is taking giant steps, I am not afraid of that word, to address the social problems of veterans of the Great Homeland War and of the entire population of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree to increase food and medicine costs by 2.5 times for veterans of the Great Homeland War. The subsistence minimum is increased three times this year, and thus the wage. Pensions of all veterans. Since 1 May 2007, the Cabinet of Ministers has established minimum pensions for the special categories of participants in the Great Homeland War, persons with disabilities of the first group of 1,041 bracelets, which is 100 per cent of the average wage on the economy of our country. Today, this pension is 850 grevens, for the disabled, 937 grevens, representing 90 per cent of the average wage. The economy and persons with disabilities of the third group are 833 bracelets, and today they receive 530 bracelets. This increase will affect 388,000 persons with disabilities and participants in hostilities. I would like to emphasize that the minimum pensions for this category have not been revised since 2004. Retirement for labour veterans is increasing, as they are still, unfortunately, lower than those established after 2005. The social protection of the entire population of the country is improving. Minimum wage from 1 April to 420, from 1 July to 440, from 1 October to 460. This means that the salaries of all categories of workers will be increased. For the first time since 2004, wage differentials have begun. A second phase of the single tariff network has been introduced since 1 June. The salaries of a doctor and a teacher increase by one and a half times. There has been an increase in salaries for other budget workers as well. The average salary of a surgeon, for example, increases from 1,380 to nearly 2,000, a teacher from 11,59 bracelets to 1,600. The budget salary will only increase by 40 to 50 per cent until October and new increases are expected as of 1 October in connection with the decision of the Parliament and the Government. This will affect 17 million citizens of Ukraine. Reimbursement for Chernobyl victims is increasing tenfold. The monthly allowance for children has increased by five times since 20 April. In short, Ukraine is emerging from a new higher level of social protection for the entire population and is expected to do so twice by the end of this year. Everything seemed to be remarkable and all the political elites of Ukraine needed to support the country's progressive movement towards well-being. But it wasn't there. I can't help but say about the paradox next time in our country. Yesterday, this was highlighted in the forum by all its participants. The Coalition is working, the Supreme Council is working more effectively than ever before, the Cabinet of Ministers has addressed the economic, financial, social and other crises from August to January 2006 and has prepared an entire perspective for the development of the economy and social life of the country. The growth rate for the first quarter of the economy is eight per cent and inflation is 1.3 per cent. An economic and social development programme is in place by 2011. How can you understand the head of State? What if the President and the opposition require illegal early elections? By the way, both the President and the opposition who ignored the national public forum yesterday. What's wrong with them? Economic development and social issues? Society waits for no shock, no improvement in the quality of life and quiet work. Dear veterans, I want to assure you that a party of regions and, in general, a coalition will do its utmost to normalize the situation in the country and achieve a high economic and social level.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Stepan Bulba, get ready for Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u8	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Dear fellow countrymen, on the eve of May 9, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan warmly welcomes the people of Ukraine with the Day of Victory in the Great National War, longing for good health and well - being for the frontists, the war participants, all whose efforts have won the victory over the Fascism that saved mankind from the brown plague. Regrettably, instead of being so grateful for their feat, we often witness events that cannot be appreciated differently from morals. The demonstration of abuse of the powder of Soviet soldiers is the actions of the Estonian authorities, which, contrary to international humanitarian law, have dismantled the emancipator's monument in the centre of Tallinn and have buried the remains of the fallen soldiers without a proper report from Ukraine. The principle position of our veterans has always been that the right to a decent burial, respect for the memory of the fallen soldiers, respect for the burial places of those who died or died as a result of war are fundamental human rights. At the same time, the ostentatious position of the official Ukrainian authorities cannot help but worry. It is clear that the President and his nationally concerned environment are not yet the entire people of Ukraine, the President and his surroundings, but the Soviets. We have no right to forget the millions of fellow countrymen who have fallen in the fields in Europe and Asia. It is stated that 2 of the 20 more faithful, of the 12 military officers buried near the monument of the liberator soldier in Tallinn, were born in Ukraine. This is Varsavska Olena Mikhailovna, born in 1925, a native of the Dikana region of Poltava. This is Kapikalo Stepan Ilarionovitch, born in 1920, a native of the Novosanjar district of Poltava. The Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan, a faction of socialists, supports all decisive steps aimed at protecting the honour and dignity of war veterans, preserving the memory of the fallen warriors. History needs memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Catherine Samuel. What a name to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u10	Thank you. The most respected John Alexanderovich, the venerable veterans of the Great Homeland War, we are just before the day of the holiday, Victory Day. World War II is the bloodiest thing in human history, but in this war, the Soviet Union took the lead. She became the Great Motherland. It has become sacred to every family, to every citizen. In front of the enemy, people gathered themselves, not wanting to be entrenched. It was strange for me to hear Timoshenko claim that it would be necessary to gather the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 May to win another victory. Ma'am, let's go! This is your role in life. But can we compare great feats, love for our earth with your powers, to occupy the highest level of government in order to transform Ukraine, its people into hell, which we have already had the privilege of experiencing? You're only able to open an exhibition, by the way, so the veterans know, at the Great Homeland War Museum tomorrow about the President's father and father, Catherine Chumachenko. Or would it be better to protect the memory of those two Ukrainians who are now being faked in Estonia?Oh, my God! The war included 61 countries with a population of nearly two billion. Fifty million died. Did the memory reflect?Oh, my God! The price of victory is also high for our people: 25 million dead Soviets. Someone was unloved, someone did not wait for his father, he did not feel the warmth of his hand, he did not feel the true masculinity. There's a new invasion in our country today. Bombs don't drop, tanks don't go down, but there's a noiseless, creeping occupation of our land. The venerable veterans, the widows of the soldiers, the descendants of the victors, with the celebration of you! May you never forget your courage. I want to wish you all that no one will ever betray you again in your life, that no one will shoot you in the back with a trick, that no one will ever catch you with words of treachery, that your memory may not be trampled upon in order to be honored by the state, family, and youth. Good health, good luck. And as a moral factor, let God give you a long, happy life in our country whose name is Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u11	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Please, Mikola Yakimenko. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Stoyan, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u12	Respectable colleagues, respected war veterans, have more than 60 years since the end of the Great Homeland War. But her interest in history does not weaken. The unprecedented atrocities of war, many tens of millions of people killed, maimed in war in Hitler’s concentration camps, who lost relatives and loved ones who have experienced the horrors of war, have caused even non-warring generations to ask questions: Who is to blame and what to do to prevent this from happening again? The war was a cruel test for countries with different social systems, systems of moral values, traditions, culture. The great Soviet people, their armed forces, played a major role in defeating fascism. In this feat, which has not yet been known by history, the highest professionalism of the military and the greatest courage of the soldiers and the self-loathing of the soldiers of the rear were combined. On Victory Day, we celebrate the immodest feat of our people to the warriors on the front, the line of the front, the soldiers of the rear, the hymn of immodest heroism, courage, fearlessness, the dedication of the Soviet people who all gave to victory: labour, blood, and 20 million of them life. Victory Day is the day of grief, the day of memory of these 20 million people who died on the front, in concentration camps, in the temporary occupied fascists of the territory. Victory Day is a cruel lesson and a formidable warning to those black forces who invent the idea of a new war that threatens the death of mankind. The day of victory is the triumph of mind over madness; it is the day of peace. A day of hope that mankind will never experience the horrors of war, that eternal peace will prevail on our wonderful planet, whose earth it is. Today we feel the heroics of our Family, whose feats of gold are forever recorded in the heroic chronicle of the history of our homeland. They will always be remembered by grateful descendants. It is vital that we honor the singing of veterans for future generations so that this knowledge becomes a lesson for them. Dear and beloved veterans, among many festivals, this day is a special place in the history of our State. Congratulations on the momentous date, the low gift and the admiration for the heroism shown. Thank you for the great experience of life, wisdom, citizenship, patriotism. With all our heart we wish you optimism, health, unscathed vital energy in serving Ukraine's future. Your youth, dear veterans of ours, beset by the Great Homeland War. You have not spared yourself under any circumstances, ensuring the power, invincibility of the Fatherland. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers has made a great deal of efforts to change the philosophy of attitudes towards veterans. Systemic broad-based work has been initiated to improve the social welfare of persons with disabilities of war, participants in hostilities, workers in the rear, and children of war. Our internal national dialogue on the search for historical truth is ongoing today. We all need to learn today to continue it without emotion, without being divided into fronts, and in a way that will demonstrate the great culture of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Alexander Stoyan. Get ready, Freeman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u14	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Respectable fellow countrymen, respected colleagues. For days we witnessed the first Vice Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov, laying out a whole more serious program of social policy in our country. Trust me, the man who led the Federation of Trades for 12 years working with all governments in social policy, the person who heads the subcommittee of social guarantees, it was a great discovery to me of what this government did in a short period of time. And I'm very surprised when the opposition immediately said, but nothing like that, it was for the elections that the government made another social policy. What is more, it is said cynically that elections should be held each year, and social life will improve each year. Nothing like that. I want to remind you again what my colleague Basil Hara was talking about. 2004 2003, 2004. The professional government of Viktor Yanukovic. Retirement at the minimum of living. Salaries are rising, and a single tariff grid is being introduced. They didn't make it to the end, and the government of Timoshenko-Jushchenko, 2005 comes. What did they do? I'll remind you, not a single penny has been allocated to return the citizens' savings. But Timoshenko was able to raise his salary to 28,000, the ministers to 17,000, raise his prices for sugar, gas and so on, and they couldn't work as professionals. And once again in 2006, the professional government of Yanukovic comes, it took six months to eliminate the crisis created by the previous government. And what do we see today, dear colleagues? Think about the numbers, I'm calling them special for our people with disabilities. A war invalid gets 851 bracelets, he gets 1,000 41 bracelets, a war II invalid gets 937, he gets 659. Moreover, especially for our middle-retirement pensioners, there will be a review of the pension that was assigned before 2004 and was the same. The salary, as in 2006, will increase the average pension from 508 to 588 dollars. I want to say that for the first time, there's a single tariff grid for teachers, for doctors. Here's two figures, today the doctor gets 840 dollars, he's going to get 1 thousand 146, the teacher is 786 dollars now, he's going to get 1 000 83. This social policy, which is really going to contribute to raising people's living standards, and it's a "wrath" of opposition, they've come up with nothing better than what they've come up with to make the next election. They're not going to help, they're going to reject our six-year economy, they're going to reject social policy. Because as an MP, despite the fact that our political power is deciding on the next election, I'm against the next election, for the stability of our state, for the stability of the government, for the stability of the work of our parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Slobodanuk passes the word "Peklushenko." Please, Alexander. Get ready for Hani Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u16	It's a faction of regions, Pecklusenko. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, on the eve of the Day of Victory – May 9 – we politicians must say the main thing except congratulations to our veterans. The political crisis, which has begun to become a threatening one for the country and for the people since 2 April, has been halted today. At the same time, we, the politicians, must recognize the fragility of the peace dialogue and the process. In order for the stabilization process not to be reversed, we need to tell the truth, and above all, to ourselves, to ourselves, to each other and to our constituents. And the truth is that there are five parliamentary parties that have been divided by their quantitative, political, regional signs of nearly 50 per cent. And whoever's not in the majority today or tomorrow, or in the opposition, if we don't come up with civilized rules of conduct and life in this room, we're not going anywhere and we're going to lose everything we've worked out in 15 years. Another important aspect was that the negotiating process had several formats: the format of the President-Prime Minister, the coalition-opposition. And when President-Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic made a possible proposal for a political solution to the early elections, Viktor Fedorovic's statement signalled the transition to a peaceful political solution to the conflict. And we need to make it clear that we, the regionals, will only go with our coalition colleagues: the Communist faction and the Socialist faction. The coalition is unbreakable, and one. Another very important moment. The situation has shown that today's constitutional rule, article 90, is only three paragraphs on which Parliament can be dissolved. In the decrees, no matter how many references are made in the second option, there are no actual conditions for dissolution, there has never been, and there will never be. At the same time, we see that de facto, when the opposition relies on the full potential of the President's Institute, in fact, politically and, after the decrees, legally and economically, attempts to paralyze the legislative executive power at the centre. Therefore, we do not exclude the possibility that there might be a political settlement. To that end, a constitutional rule must be drawn up here, and if all five political parties are to conclude that there is no alternative to elections, we must constitutionally establish this rule, vote and, on that basis, we can go to early elections. Unlawful decrees will not pass in the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u17	Thank you. Herman Hanna's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, “politically there are no eternal friends, there are eternal interests” – this phrase has been repeated in various parts by different politicians. You and I, in our coalition partnership, have never been guided by the standards of tolerance. Our eternal interest is the interest of the people, and our friends are not welcome to betray us. We were taught such principles by people like John Alexanderovich of Herasimov and all our veterans of the Great Fatherland, and all the patriots of Ukraine, who have done much for its independence, for its freedom. And that's why our strength here is that we're not cheating, and that's why today we're called the strongest coalition in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, and that's why they need to be cleansed. And by the way, October 14th, which is already called the press, as a possible term for doterminian elections, is a good day, because it's the Holy Mary's Festival, a beautiful day for cleansing. But today before Victory Day, I wanted to say something different. Whatever happens in Ukraine: there will be preterm elections or there will be no, we will form a new coalition here, or we will not – we should all be guided in our decisions by our experience, by how we were able to work in our coalition. We have to remember how the bells whistled here, and we've approved the laws; how the blue and yellow Chinese seats were painted here, and we've approved the laws; how we've thrown MP mandates here, but we've taken free parliamentary apartments, and we've approved laws. And when we are guided by this experience and the memory of these events in our decisions, present and future, we will always be victorious and not only on Victory Day but every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Igor Alekseus is handing over Peter Zybenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u20	Communist faction, Chairman of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Peter Cibenko. Respectable voters, respected colleagues, Ukraine, peace, humanity in the face of the most holy, most important holiday of the 62nd anniversary of the great victory over fascism. All other holidays and memorable dates in our history are derived from it. There wouldn't be this great victory over fascism, there'd be nothing. Today, in advance of this holy date, I would like to bow low to the heroic frontists, the fearless partisans and the underdogs, the famous interns of the rear for their great feat, for what they have done for the country, for the people, for mankind. Historians and philosophers claim that every generation has its own war. So if these wealthier wonders had only done one thing in their lives - to break the back of Hitler's Fascism, then each of them should have a monument in his life. Fortunately, they did much more, and then the land was restored with blood after the heavy ones of the warriors. This is the work of the entire dependent land. It is they who have lifted up space ships and brought our common great family into the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in the tens of the most developed countries of the world. I just want to say one more thing. Today, to a generation whose famous frontists passed on the glorious estaphet of generations as a pupil of the eye, we must keep the truth about war, the truth about victory, the truth about the price it has achieved. Because if Mr. Sergeychuki and Yuhnovsky continue to be so active in copying our country, fighting the Great Homeland War, it will be tomorrow that Berlin was taking US troops in a coup with UN-OPA troops. It is bitter to realize that in these sacred May days, spiritual heirs of fascism are preparing another victory over their people. It's impossible to think of a greater church. Given the age of veteran health, every anniversary of the great victory, we are obliged to observe today as the most important, most important, most important, we must hurry to repay our eternal debt to this category of people. Once again, live long, share your precious experience with the growing generation, your children, and your grandchildren! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u21	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna has a word behind her, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! The esteemed voters and veterans of the Great Homeland War and those who survived that war, who restored our homeland! We congratulate the veterans today, and we are talking about them in front of such a bright, big holiday, but I would like to address again the problems that veterans are facing today. Today, my colleagues, Hara and others have already said that, by fulfilling our duty to the voters, to the people of Ukraine, including the veterans, we are trying to make decisions that will help them to live better, create real conditions for their lives, we realize that we will not return their youth to them, we will not bring them back to health, but we want their old age to be better and happier. However, at meetings with veterans, I heard the following words: "Alla Alexandrovna, you often speak very much to the veterans, that the remembrance of our feat will be eternal. But let's be honest that human life is final, and unfortunately, memory can go away with that life if that memory doesn't become a nation's policy if that memory doesn't become a policy that will be pursued by all society. And in that sense, today they say we can't. We can't help but worry about the processes that are taking place in Ukraine, because today the grandchildren are coming from school and they're saying that your grandfather might have told us, and we're told in a history lesson that the Soviet Union, together with the fascists, won, captured Poland, and then failed to share it, and that's why they went to war with each other. This is how our children and grandchildren today are told about the feat that their grandfathers performed. That is why, I think, our task is to address the material aspects of the lives of our people and veterans. But we must turn to morals. How morally moral is the power that tomorrow, in flower columns, will go to the monuments of the Great Homeland War and, at the same time, their policies today are trampling that memory, humiliating those veterans and doing everything to make the memory of this feat forgotten. And we must necessarily judge these politicians and, unfortunately, our President is a clear example of such a policy. And here the veterans are telling me, we can't help but worry, and we don't feel any gratitude to this man, who is heavily dependent on him in our country. And what was set before the Victory – it does not add to our peace, it does not add to our confidence that our children, our grandchildren and our grandchildren, including for whom we have given our lives, our youth, their health, that they will live happily. And this is the most important concern of veterans and we must respond to our work. I congratulate everyone on the upcoming holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u23	Thank you. Bondarchuk, follow him, Shibko. And Shibko, behind him Bondarchuk, come on. I was thinking, as tradition was in detention, Comrade Shibko will speak, and now he is no longer in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u24	It was in the past, Alexander Alexandrovich, and now a few other times. Dear colleagues, Shibko, the Socialist faction. I have always had to communicate with our colleagues from parliaments from other countries. And I want to say that nothing but surprises and disappointments today are causing events, including the President and events in Ukraine. I can call you the names of the people I have to communicate with -- the MEPs of Freedom, Muscat, Jeshev, Doboli, as well as the deputies of the national parliaments of Sweden, Alia Poland, and Winsky, and others. They are surprised by the fact that it is possible to ignore the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and thereby cancel the Constitutional Court. But all the time, this resolution stressed the need to hold a meeting of the Constitutional Court in order for it to determine and assess how legitimate Presidential decrees were one and the other. That's the first one. The other one. Surprises and misunderstandings also cause the activity of the President’s Secretariat today, when it is possible to agree earlier on some of the President’s travels, official travels, such as in Russia or Italy, and then one day they take the responsibility of cancelling these trips, explaining them in some way that they understand in those countries. I am not jealous of the employees of our embassies today when they have to explain why the head of state who was to make an official visit today refuses to go to one country or another. And I'm not jealous of that receiving party, as she can't understand the reasons for the President's actions. I want to say that all the time I've been talking to our colleagues abroad, I need to hear, and are you ready for today, gentlemen, that you have made a commitment today to hold a meeting of the Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 21 and 22 May? Would that not hinder your topic, which is being considered so actively here today, for the holding of such, perhaps, an international forum? On the other hand, would it not prevent the situation in Ukraine today to hold the OSCE Council Parliamentary Assembly scheduled for July? And of course it's very hard to answer here. But are we ready for “Euro” in 2012 as well? They say, "Dear gentlemen, you've been trusted today to build a country, and you haven't even been able to make this committee to deal with these issues. So I want to point out, it's very difficult to win trust in foreign and foreign partners, but it's very difficult to break it, and that's what the previous experience of the presidency, which ended in 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u25	You were going to say, it's very easy to break up, yes, to break up, because you said again: it's hard. It's hard to create and it's easy to break. Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome my fellow countrymen - the warlords, the frontists, the guerrillas, the guerrillas, the workers of the rear with the 62th anniversary of our Great Victory in the Great Indian War, to wish the veterans who are the moral backbone of our society to live long among us and to provide us with the necessary direction. In the presentation, I would like to address only one question that is widely asked today, how are we going to work? I would like to calm everyone down, we should and will work in strict compliance with the Constitution and the Supreme Council Rules, the President actually wants to trample the Basic Law of the State, if we don't repeal the Constitution at all, then, at the very least, suspend its action. He lost direction in space and time. This is the only way to explain his merciful permission for the Supreme Council to gather in the south to print out the laws that it will prepare, to be more precise, the office of their greatness, the Bologna, and so forth. Apparently, he would like to make a report from the Supreme Council session with a loop on his neck. As a national deputy of Ukraine, who has the honor and dignity of his own, I am not going to play games with him. I'm sorry, I'm not going to relax and enjoy a familiar situation. Convincedly, my point of view is shared by the vast majority of fellow MPs. I come from the fact that the political decision to hold the early elections is de facto made. But all about securing the legal side, the legal purity of the procedure for early elections is the prerogative or exclusive right of parliament, of us with you, honourable colleagues. It is worth reminding Mr. President, who is obviously reading the Constitution, where he swore to the Ukrainian people selectively, that he is not the self-reliant of all Ukraine, Crimea and the island of Snakes, and the Supreme Council is not the structural unit of his Secretariat, it is the highest representative and only legislative body of the state, whose legitimacy is similar to that of the President. We will not sign the verdicts of parliamentaryism, in other words by the peoples of Ukraine, we will not put those who come to this room after the elections in a position of illegality, nor will we allow them to legalize a fool. And in closing, I want to make an announcement that tomorrow we're all going to invite you to 10 o'clock at Besarab Square to participate in the Victory Day celebrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u27	Thank you. [[Applause]] We used the time spent on performances, announcements, and reasoning from factions and individual MPs. You can sum up the short summary, which is that today is the day of the greatest holiday in our country, and naturally, that's reflected in the performances of many deputies. I think it would be right if we once again expressed our gratitude to the veterans of war, to all those to whom such words may refer, to those who ensure victory and peace in our land, to express words and greetings and thanks and respects. I mean, the political situation today is really complicated, and although we understand perfectly that it is artificial. But this artificially created thing is sometimes heated by some things that need to be analyzed from a legal or criminal point of view. There was a train-trap programmed. You know, it's quite recent, and today's investigation is convinced that this is really a terrorist act that, thanks to God, didn't end in life's tragedies. We have to pay attention to that. Why is this being done? But it is done to show, you see, the executive authority, the government is not coping with these obligations. We have seen similar things in other countries on more than one occasion, but we did not want it to be in Ukraine. And I'd like to warn those who are taking such steps that nothing secret is forever secret, it becomes clear at the end and has to be held accountable for everything. There's a suspicion that we're going to make the right conclusions on the accident on the Pomari-Urengoi-Uzhgrad gas pipeline, because. Urengoy-Pomari-Uzhgrad, because it happened in my homeland, I know it better. There's no human sacrifice there, but it's a very serious matter, and it's not an accident that security personnel will do a background check on the evil people for some reason, but probably for that reason that I've been talking to you about. We will expect that in this case the BPO will be governed by an objective analysis of matters, not, say, political dependence or service dependence on specific officials. Victor was mentioned here. Vitali Yakovic said that we should literally hold the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Ukraine in a month. Each country chooses this right. I have had to attend such Assembly meetings in Switzerland, Sweden, Poland of my own time, and I must say that every country that takes on such matters considers it a great honor. Thousands of representatives, about thousands of representatives from other countries, about 200 journalists accredited to this event will be in Ukraine, watching how we work, how we live, what our perspective, including from the point of view of Ukraine's participation in security and cooperation in Europe, which our proposals can take into account and so forth. We are preparing, as you can see, a meeting room for such a conference is now in our Parliamentary Hall. And I have to say that the representatives, I take it, of the President's Institute don't seem to matter. We've got the money in the budget for this. This is the face of Ukraine, I mean. I would like them to turn their attention now to this particular problem, and not to be foolish, but to help solve it in a way that we can present Ukraine with dignity in international companionship. Or take such a topic as preparations for the Euro-2012: the European Football Championship in Ukraine and Poland. Poland will be easier to prepare, I want to say, because they've gone far in social infrastructure. And we need about $10 billion, including foreign investment, to build our stadiums, sports other buildings to build hotels, roads, and so on. We shouldn't hit the dirt with our faces. This is one thing, but even more important: we need to take advantage of the moment, because the world is coming to us, to raise the social sphere. This is a higher level that describes Ukraine accordingly. We need to do that. No, we start giving each other political powers because we think someone's going to win. Nothing like that. So our approach remains the same: The Constitution is at the heart of everything, the laws are at the heart of everything. Everything can be done: elections can be held in two months if this is enshrined in the Constitution, if this is the case in our legislation. That's why Alexander Pecklesenko was here, and I think he was convincing in his arguments. Please go into the hall, make changes to the Constitution, they're not complicated, by the way, prepared changes, we vote, we make decisions, then we make a decision based on this clarification into the Constitution, we make a law, we set a time limit, and we go ahead. And prove to the people that you're the best, that you want them well, that you're the one who got the salary raises, the pensions, wants to see the "ICTV" from the representatives of BUTU saying that the coins were added. Well, look how from 380 to 590 you can raise an average pension and think it's a penny, well, and so on. But these laws need to be signed, they need to act. And when we get a draft decree that says, "see if such documents are legally voted on." Who's in doubt? There is order in the Constitution, it is not the Supreme Council's decision to do so. And it is reinforced by the President's signature to enforce it, this Law. And that order will be ensured. That's why I'd like to meet our working group, meet them today, say you stand up for positions not factions, not coalitions, you stand up for the truth and the Constitution. Then we can find compromise on that basis. There is no other basis. Once again with the celebration of all those who are concerned, our citizens, the whole nation. And we're continuing our meeting. Thank you. We are invited to consider the issue of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Law on the Distinguishment of State and Municipal Property. And the draft Act “On amending certain laws in connection with the renaming of individual government authorities”. If you support this procedure, the procedure is shortened. Then I'll put it to the vote. Please. [[11:04:44]] For 252 Decision taken. The draft Act “On Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State and Municipal Property” is under consideration, registration number 3175. And this project will be reported by the First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Kurulenko Svetoslav Sergiyovich. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u28	Okay. Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, Honourable People's Deputies, draft of the Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property, designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the Law on Education. The draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State and Municipal Property aims to implement the provisions of existing land legislation. This bill provides for the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Distinguishment of State and Municipal Property in addition to the list of land of state property which cannot be transferred to municipal property. According to part two of article 63 of the Ukrainian Education Act, land areas of public educational institutions, institutions and institutions are transferred to them for continuous use in accordance with the Ukrainian Land Code. According to paragraph “in” and “is” of part three of article 83 of the Ukrainian Land Code, land areas that are secured by state-owned vocational and technical educational institutions and higher educational institutions of state-owned property cannot transfer this from state-owned municipal property. Amendments to article six of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State Municipal Property on the Prohibition of Transfer from State to Municipal Property of Lands, where there are professional and technical and higher educational establishments of State ownership, will allow this law to be aligned with the Ukrainian Code of Land and will facilitate the provision of regulatory regulation on the delimitation of State and municipal property. In view of the above, the Ministry proposes to adopt the draft Ukrainian law as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u29	Thank you. Please sit down, Holy Sergiyovich. Jadhu Vasil Stepanović, member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u30	Dear colleagues. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee on 25 April of this year reviewed the draft law amending article six of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Delimitation, registration number 3175 of 15.02.2007, which proposes to bring this article into line with article 84 of the Ukrainian Land Code and notes the following. The revision proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine contradicts the wording of article 84 of the Code of Land and changes to the code will be necessary if the proposed revision is to be adopted. This disagreement is also noted in its conclusion by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which does not decide on the main issue of the codification of land legislation and therefore cannot be adopted as a law as a whole. In addition, questions of a different nature were raised at the committee’s meeting. According to the amendments to article 6 of the Act, it is concluded that, when the land of state and municipal property is separated, it is not possible to transfer land to the land of municipal property, where there are professional and technical areas of higher state educational institutions of state form of ownership. The question was immediately raised, and what was the proportion of secondary special educational institutions such as colleges, technicians, and the proportion of land areas of the so - called infrastructure — stadiums, sports courses, dining areas, research sites, and so forth. I mean, there's a lot to work on in the second reading. The Committee on Science and Education proposes to adopt the bill as a law as a whole. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. In view of the above, the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, short procedure, two in, two in. Please sign up. Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It is proposed that the bill be included in the list of State ownership land defined in article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Communal Property, to include land in which the professional and technical and higher educational institutions of State ownership are located. I fully agree with the opinion of a speaking colleague that there are some disagreements with other legislative acts, but this problem needs to be solved. So I support the committee's view, to adopt this bill as a basis, and the proposals and observations that were taken into account in the process of preparing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u33	Thank you. There are no other speakers. Dear colleagues, then I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property. Registration number 3175. Please vote. [[11:11:29]] For 245 Decision taken. There was a whole offer as a law, wasn't there? Then, well, then we work, although there's not much work to really reconcile these changes to the law and to the actual edition of the Earth Code, where, in my opinion, this rule is more precisely written, namely, with regard to public educational institutions or institutions of public administration. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[in connection with the renaming of individual government authorities]] Registration number 2712. Lebedev Pavel Valentinovich, author. I can't see. Please, Galunenko Alexander Vasilovich, head of the Subcommittee, Committee on Transport and Communications. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u34	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications, has considered a bill amending some of Ukraine's legitimate laws relating to the renaming of certain government bodies, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Lebedev and Kruk. The bill has been introduced to ensure compliance with legislation and regulations in connection with the reorganization and renaming of individual central executive bodies. To this end, it is suggested that they define existing legal practices as central executive bodies on matters within their competence. This would prevent the subsequent practice of amending laws in the event of a change in the name of those public authorities. The adoption of the law provides an opportunity to remedy the non-compliance in the laws on the Ukrainian Air Code, the Code of Merchandise, on Transport and Others and to avoid legal conflicts and inconsistencies in the adoption of new legislation, which is drafted by reference to the laws noted. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the bill be adopted on the basis of comments. The Committee also received conclusions on the bill from the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on State Construction, Regional Policy and Local Government, the Committee on Legal Policy. There is no objection to the adoption of the bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee considers it possible to request the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. I beg your pardon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u35	Thank you, Alexander Vasilovich, sit down, please. So who wants to share in the discussion? Two "for" – two "against", please register. Sergey Chukmasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u36	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Indeed, what was said from the rostrum was purely technical because, during the adoption of previous legislation, the names of various institutions, ministries had been changed. Therefore, we need to bring them into line with a number of laws in order to avoid misunderstandings. I also call on you to adopt this bill in the light of the comments of the Legal Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u37	Thank you. Tuck, please, microphone, or on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u38	Thank you. Tuck, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I believe that the Law, which has been passed today, must certainly be accepted as a basis, no questions asked. But I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that, not long ago, the Cabinet of Ministers had taken an anti-State decision to eliminate the State Department. At a time when we only adopted the Land Cadastre Act a month ago, a moratorium on land sales ends seven months later, and at that time the Cabinet of Ministers adopts the Anti-State Law on the liquidation and subordination of the Ministry of Nature. Cynicism is fundamental. I don't blame the Minister of Ecology, I understand he has a lot of issues to work on. How can a ministry be subordinated to a specific state committee? which should be the foundation of our being - the earth? So I think we need to adopt this law, but in the coming days after Victory Day we have to go back to this question and put Janukovitch and the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole cancel the decision and renew it not by the Statecomme, but by the Ministry of Land Policy, which should soon be brought to this room by the Law on Earth's Price Mechanism, if we think that from a new year the land will become a commodity. If we don't, all the decisions we've made, including the Constitution, and the changes to the Constitution, are nothing against one Land Cadastre Act and a price mechanism on earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u39	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote as a basis in the first reading of the Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the renaming of individual government authorities. Registration number 2712. Please vote. [[11:18:20]] For 248 The Law was adopted in the first reading. We need to include in the agenda and consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. [[concerning the market price definition of sugar]] Registration numbers: 3199 and 3199-1. A motion for inclusion in the agenda shall be put to the vote. [[11:19:07]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's move on to the drafts. My word, Soslov Eugenius, I can't see. Please, Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich, please. 3199-1, I get it, right? How many minutes? How much do you ask? Five minutes, please. Get ready for the Ribubu committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, at the same time, I would like to address all of our laborers of the weeding farms, the sugars of our long - suffering agriculture, because it is this very bill that deals with solving one of the problems. Yeah, last year, there were 22.2 million tons of sugar beetroot in sugar factories, or this is the highest gross collection in recent years of independence, and this enabled over 2 million million tons of sugar to be produced at an internal demand of about 2 million tons due to the increase in sugar raw materials, the cost of processing, the cost of sugar from its producers is an average of 3,000,100 dollars per tonne. The loss of traditional external markets, overcrowding of the internal market and uncontrolled functioning of the internal market have led to dumping and the fall in wholesale prices to a level that does not cover production costs. The absence of clearing costs for the calculation, repayment of credits, the provision of current costs forces sugar factories under various financial schemes to implement sugar at a price of 2,100-2300 grevens per tonne, much lower than the minimum price set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is 2,850. Producer losses from the implementation of quota A and B sugar at a price below the set minimum price will amount to over 1 billion dollars. Last year, there were no full-scale, unfortunately, stabilization measures in the financial support to the industry through the debt lending mechanism, nor were they purchased by the state food reserve agrarian fund of 185,000 tons of sugar. It should also be noted that more than 50 percent of the sugar beet was processed according to the donor scheme. Such a situation with the implementation of sugar leads to bankruptcy and the closure of sugar factories, as well as agricultural enterprises, which reduce the area of sugar beet crops, lose jobs, and reduce the availability of budgets at all levels. Today, the internal market for sugar is in serious trouble. Some structures block the implementation of sugar; sugar factories are formally subject to fines, which are then prosecuted in courts for contradictions in existing legislation. The situation in the internal market for sugar remains complex until now and is characterized by oversupply of demand, which has even declined recently. The estimated sugar available for May 1st consists of at least 1780000, of which 700,000 tonnes is the amount of sugar for internal consumption from May 1 to September 1, 507,000 is the transitional sugar residue for September 1st at sugar factories and producers, which is the mandatory availability of sugar in terms of the three-month need of the internal market. 573,000 remains an export potential. With a view to unlocking the situation in the sugar market, enabling manufacturers and sugar factories to fill their own circulation costs, and avoiding the application of fines to economic operators in the case of the implementation of sugar, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes a legislative solution to the issue through the following changes. The adoption of this law will allow the Cabinet of Ministers to change the minimum price for sugar if the sugar market changes. Sugar market developments during marketing year, unlocking the sugar market, and allowing businesses to partially secure their circulation costs, including stable tax calculations to all levels of their budgets. Ukraine's draft legislation is supported by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. The adoption of this law does not require additional budget spending. Therefore, when considering the bill, I ask you to accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u41	Thank you. If you have any questions, please sign up. Please, Tsakchenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say that we need to support this bill, which is being passed by the national deputy of Kaletnik. The point is that we should give the Cabinet the right to change conditions over the course of the year, to change prices, both to raw materials and sugar itself. So I think this bill and its proposal, which is timely and we have to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u43	Thank you. It's a wish. Please, Little Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. I'm proposing that this law should be adopted in the first and second readings, because it doesn't compromise, as they say, our budget, but it compromises the seller and the buyer. We saw that by March of the month, for example, in the Jashkow district, I had been approached by 12 heads of farms, where more than 10,000 tons of sugar had accumulated, at a cost of 2.85 per kilogram, no one wanted to speak. As soon as they said it was 2:30, they started taking sugar. So they went out of their way: they bought the GSM, they bought the mineral fertilizers, they repaired the technology, and they planted it. So I think this law needs to be adopted in a second reading, and it doesn't take long to ride with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u45	I thank you for such balanced questions. I think I can go to my place now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u46	And you're thinking the right thing. Sit down for a moment. From Ribuk Committee Sergey Mikolaiovich is the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Please, you have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u47	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Production and Implementation of Sugar, introduced by the Kaletnik People's MP, and fully supported the bill. And the committee has also supported and proposed to the Supreme Council to consider this bill, not only as a whole, but as a whole as a law, as now proposed by the honourable colleague, Omelyan Nikonovich Parubok. Why? First, we allow the Cabinet of Ministers to show flexibility in economic policy and to respond quickly to market connectivity and in such important areas and products as sugar. Secondly, the situation of government and economic governance has changed significantly in general. We have a coalition government, and the Supreme Council will always be able to adjust, control and make appropriate changes if necessary. So if we already have a government appointed by the Supreme Council, we need to get rid of the Supreme Council more and more, if not entirely, of the economic functions, of the issues, and hand them over directly to the executive authority, in this case the Cabinet of Ministers. The first step with regard to the implementation of zinc sugar, the regulation of price policy, is that when we adopt this law, we will do it with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u48	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If you want to participate, write down the factions first. Who else wants the MPs? Wait, Mikhail Vasilovich, the record's coming from the deputies, I'll see, then we'll be. I figured it wasn't. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We are now looking at two bills: Bill 3199 of the People's Deputies of Souslow and 3199-1 of the People's Deputies of Gregory Kaletnik. Project 3199 provides for changes to articles 1 and 6.9 of the Law by deleting provisions that set minimum sugar prices and propose to cancel provisions that provide fines for infringements of the established pricing order in case of intra-market transfers of sugar above the established quota or at prices lower than the defined minimum price. I believe that domestic sugar prices are influenced by seasonal fluctuations, and this may result in a certain production deficit. In addition, the cancellation of the supply quotas can lead to the destruction of the sector at all. Project 3199 of National Deputy Gregory Kaletnik is intended not to revoke the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to set minimum prices for sugar, but rather to give the government the right to react promptly to changes in market conditions. And in my opinion, and in faction's view, this law of the National Deputy Kaletnik 3199, it corresponds to today's development of the field, and we propose to adopt it not only on the first reading, but we support the opinion of the Committee, and the government to adopt this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, John Bondarchuk, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine As a representative of Winnitzkina, and this is Sugar Donbas, I will certainly vote to support the bill of the landowner of his Grigori Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, and our faction will also vote in favour of this bill. Its advantages are comparable to that of others, more loyal to another bill already drafted clearly by Michael Chechtchev, so it is really necessary to vote not only on the basis but also on the whole. I am convinced that the adoption of this law and its entry into force will allow, among other things, not to provoke a future sugar crisis, as Julia Timoshenko did in her time. So I'm irrigated or I'm calling for a vote in favour of this bill right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I'm voting, be careful, I'm voting for acceptance as a basis, because here are two bills, bill number 3199, author Suslov Evgeny Ivanovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:21]] For the 18th. Dear colleagues, I see that the absence of opposition has led us to relax a little bit, be careful. 18 votes in favour of the bill. It is now on the basis of the first reading of Bill No. 3199-1, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar, the author of the bill by colleague Kaletnik. Please vote. [[11:33:05]] For 249 Decision taken. Yes, we had suggestions to accept. The committee proposes to accept it as a whole, but there are some observations from the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Yeah, that's where they apply to the budget. It's suggested, yes, we have the law to introduce since the day of publication, but it has an impact on the budget. Does this law affect the budget? Please, it's a Kaletnik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u53	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The science-expert management has made a note of changing the concept of marketing year to marketing period. But when we look at it, we suggest that the Supreme Council accept it as stated in the bill -- the "marketing year" -- because it is the marketing year that is bound to all budgets and budgets, and so on. As for the impact on the budget, I said this from the rostrum, and all the calculations say that the introduction of this bill does not have a negative impact on the income part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u54	This is in your opinion as a member of the Budget Committee. Okay. Let's count it. Then, if there is no objection, I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. Registration number 3199-1. Please vote. [[11:35:18]] For 255 The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues. Yes, be with the sugar. I'd like to include it in the agenda and consider today's Bill of 90 Years since the founding of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, registration number 3503. Please vote on inclusion and consideration today. [[11:36:00]] For 249 The question is included in the consideration. Please also contact the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Samuelka Catherine Semenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen. How many minutes? I don't remember shorthand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u56	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, in November 2008, and we will work with you for a very long and fruitful time, I am more than certain, 90 years since the founding of the National Academy of Sciences. And given this, and taking into account the great contribution to the development of the National Academy of Sciences, the development of science and economics, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, and invites us all to join in marking this date and to make the appropriate decision. You know, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine has brought a lot of scientific and technological progress to the altar of fundamental, applied research at the world level. And they account for more than 90 percent of the discoveries made by all the discoveries made in Ukraine and a number of other achievements that have been made in industry, agriculture and other areas of the national economy. I don't think we should call it, all of you know that there have been a lot of science schools in the academy that we're proud of, not only in our country and in our former state, the Soviet Union, but we're proud of the world. It's also Grave, Krilov, the famous Ukrainian power-generating schools, the Glushkova cybernetics, that have become widely recognized by economic, humanitarian schools that led the economics of Vtuh and Vabli, historians – Gruszewski, Yavornicki and so on. During the years of Ukraine's transition to the market for economic, market economies, scientists at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine have developed dozens of new technologies that you. The National Academy of Science has made great efforts to develop international scientific connections, to integrate into the world’s scientific community. And it has made creative contacts with the world’s fifty nations, including the world’s leading countries. The National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine participates in the work of more than 20 authoritative international organizations, including UNESCO, MAGATES, and others. We propose a small, small decision that is proposed to commemorate in November of the following year at the national level of the founding of the National Academy of Sciences. We recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approve the plan of action to define the 90th anniversary of the establishment of the Academy. We also suggest why I asked you to accept it right now, before we begin with you, we will definitely consider the state budget of Ukraine so that we can anticipate some funds before that date too. We invite the State Committee on Television and Radio to highlight all of these gains that exist at the National Academy of Science in various areas of our economy as they come into life. And also, of course, do a very wide-ranging information work on discoveries made by scientists at our National Academy of Sciences, scientific achievements, and so forth. And, of course, what's going on with absolutely things that have already become purely mechanical. It's also the signs, it's the coins, it's both the stamps, and so on. I think our best support for the National Academy of Sciences will be to make a significant improvement during the review of the National Budget of Ukraine, even though we are taking progressive steps towards financing our science. And I think scientists should also give everything right to our economy, less political reflection. There's someone here to do business. There are, thank God, political parties, and we have opposition and coalition, and that's why we're going to deal with these issues. And here's to the realisation of scientific achievements, I think we should work on that. As a result, I would like to ask you to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u58	Thank you. Don't go, Catherine Seed. Perhaps you have a question. Any questions? None. Then sit down, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? I understand that a day without Sulkovsky's word is a wasted day. Please, Sulkowski, a microphone from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u59	Well, Adam Ivanovich, they don't call you my friend for nothing. Thank you. I just heard from a reporter, a colleague of mine. And I want to say that I know that from this point of view, although we have not yet adopted the rulings in Parliament, but already Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic and Vice-Prime Minister Mr. Tobacco have been given the mandate to work on this issue. So, really, this decision is practically going to help the government. And I think the government is going to do everything in its power to mark this date at the right level. And with regard to voting, that's why there weren't any questions about the rapporteur in Parliament, because today, none of the parliamentarians except the populists who are not here today are on the run in Ukraine, no one here in the room is against it, only for the support of such a decision. So I think we really need to vote for this decision, and we're just being thanked by scientists and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u60	Thank you. But to be more precise, their gastropods go far beyond Ukraine. Bondarchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I think we really need to vote, because the question is quite clear. What's more, yesterday at a meeting of the government committee, we've already discussed this issue, the approved agenda, and I think it's going to be implemented, and we're going to use this Jubilee to support our country science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. Question completed. The fact that the speakers emphasized that the Cabinet of Ministers had joined in was only one thing: that the cooperation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Coalition is as close as ever and we work in one key field. Let's really vote, we'll vote in favour of the 90-year decree since the founding of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, registration number 3503, and we'll give the government the full opportunity to implement these Jubilee measures. Please vote. [[11:44:44]] For the 250. Decision taken. A decree marking the 90th anniversary of the National Academy of Science was adopted as a whole as a document of the Supreme Council. Let's go to the agenda section. shall vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law amending article 101 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Registration number 3285. Please vote. [[11:45:32]] For 251 Questions are included in the agenda. A proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on the Limitation of Legal Aid Costs is put to the vote. Registration number 3286. The Cabinet of Ministers bill. Please vote. [[11:46:06]] For 252 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the State registration of legal acts of authorities and officials of local self-government. Registration number 3408. The subject of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers Take down the vote. Please, Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u63	Sergei Kuzmenko, State Building Committee. Adam Ivanovich, we sent this draft law to the local authorities, because, directly to them, we have not yet received everything. And the committee has not considered this issue, so we ask that we do not discuss it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u64	And we're not looking at it today, and we're now looking at the inclusion in the agenda for this session. When you are ready, then we will consider, so it is not a matter of consideration. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the State Registration of Laws of Authorities and Officials of Local Self-Government. Registration number 3408. Please vote. [[11:47:42]] For 247 The question is included. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 25 of the Law on Military Obligation and Military Service, registration number 3390 of the legislature's Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:48:17]] For 254 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on the Commodity Exchange the registration number 3256 subjects of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:48:46]] For 255 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks, registration number 3387. The subject of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers Please vote. [[11:49:21]] For 257 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Auditing. Registration number 3471. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:49:54]] For 255 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of business, registration number 3391, subject of the legislative initiative, Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:50:26]] For 255 And it's about voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the State Lottery and Other Gambling Act. Registration number 3491, subject of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers Please vote. Please take down the vote, Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I also address you because you are very well-known in the Rules and will instruct us. We have in the past convened, the drafters of a bill similar to the bill, we have adopted in the first reading a law that is practically the same as what is being proposed today. These drafters of the bill in the hall: Matvienkov, Tsusko, me and the others, there are five men. [[Former Ukrainian National Deputy]] I don't understand why when we first adopted the bill and it's practically ready for the second reading, why should we accept it? I don't get it. I don't know what it takes. And just a little differently it's called, "The state regulation of lotteries and games," slightly differently, and the same thing doesn't change. So why do we have to store it so much?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u66	On the one hand, you're right, and on the other hand, it's hard for us to say one thing or another, because we haven't looked at it yet, and we're just putting it in the order of the day. By including the committee of the day in order, we will find out what to do next with this bill. That's one thing. And second, of course, we have to work on that bill, and I can't remember what kind of situation he's in when he's getting ready for his second reading. And it is not excluded that this bill will then be taken into account. And third, most importantly. Let's not forget that we're a coalition of parliamentary governments, so we're working together with the government that we created and we're going to have to consider the wishes and proposals of a government created by a majority of parliament. I don't see any problems here, everything's gonna be fine. And Sulkovsky agrees. I'll put it to a vote. No, he wants to say a word. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u67	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I really wanted to support you, and so I ask you to vote in favour of Adam Ivanovich's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-08-m0.u68	Thank you. I think you're very peaceful today, not a word about politics. That makes me happy. I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft session, the order, the draft Law on State Lottery and other gambling, registration number 3491. Please vote, and we'll figure it out. [[11:53:33]] For 249 Questions are included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, what has been planned for us for today's plenary day has been done with you. As we conclude our session today, once again, I would like to say those words that many of you have spoken today at the beginning of our morning session, as the son of a frontier, I would like to extend a warm welcome to everyone who has participated and forged our victory. Thank them for this great sonhood. And secondly, let us all do our utmost tomorrow to celebrate this holy day for our people. I'm calling, please be all nationals with veterans to celebrate this holiday. And then the next announcement, we're working with you in a decision-making mode that allows the Head of the Supreme Council or the First Deputy to convene a plenary meeting if it's necessary. When that happens, we'll tell you, and as long as we're doing this, we're working on committees and factions according to our plans. And I'd like to ask the committees to work on the laws, because since we've been working with you almost all the time, not almost, but we've been working exactly for a month now, we have practically no laws left to consider. Good for you. Once again with Victory Day, dear colleagues. Once again with the festival of Victory you, dear fellows, and all who listen to us. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
