ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. Please register. [[16:02:38]] There are 254 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council is open. The bill on amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2426, is being considered, reports Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich, to prepare Bebelzenka. [[on the right of religious organizations to use land on a permanent basis]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, the issue of the legislative definition of the right of religious organizations to use the land permanently is not something new or unknown in the legislative practice of two branches of government. I would like to remind you that since January 1, 2002, religious organizations, including thousands of nonprofit organizations, including disabled organizations, have lost their right to use the land on a permanent basis. Thus, in July 2003, the Januković government passed Bill No. 4023, which was proposed to complement the list of permanent users by religious organizations and organizations of persons with disabilities. I remind the MPs of those calls, after a heated debate, the bill on November 18, 2003 only received 207 votes. In 2004, Bill No. 5291, author of Peter Cibenko, introduced the amendments to article 92 of the Land Code by introducing a more faithful restoration of the lost right of permanent use of land for the organization of persons with disabilities. I would also like to remind you that the explanatory note to this bill also refers to religious organizations, but neither this amendment nor other amendments to other social organizations have been made. In June 2005, President Yushchenko, at a meeting with members of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches, claimed the need to resolve the issue of permanent use of land for churches and religious organizations, as well as the message of the President. As January 1, 2007, several drafts were registered. For various reasons, none were accepted. One of the last attempts of the fourth call, number 8409, the second half of 2004, the authors of the National MPs of Ukraine's fourth call: Stretović, Belarus, Dry, Pecklusenko, Makeenko and others were not accepted, and in this call, a bill of 1101, 2260 was introduced in our year, all of which did not receive the support of the Hall. Bill 2426, which was commissioned by a group of authors to report to me, which is proposed for your consideration today for adoption, introduced all the previously proposed standards, all the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Professional Committee. It is complex because it also changes article 141 of the Land Code and the basic law on freedom of conscience and religious organizations. It solves the problematic aspect of the land use of religious organizations by introducing a special guaranteed admission to land. He has all the positive reactions, so I would like to ask the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill as a whole. Now I'm answering the possible questions why we can't go on a lease, But they must follow the path of constant land use. The point is, dear colleagues, the rent between permanent use and rent is three principles of difference. First. Rent is a term form of land use and provides for a certain period of permanent use, does not foresee setting a time limit in advance. The other one. The wages for permanent use are regulated by law, accounting for a majority of only 1 per cent, or may be deducted at all, while the rent cannot be reduced by law to about 10 per cent of the normal value of the area. And the third. The law lays down the benefits of paying for the land. The constant use of free use while land use on leases does not provide for such benefits. In a similar way, the problem is solved in countries that we either know about or know about from their draft laws. In the Netherlands, Poland, Germany, Israel, and the United States have the right to use the church forever. Recently, in Kazakhstan, the right of permanent use for religious organizations has been restored or preserved. In September 2006, the State Duma of Russia, which reviewed the bill and approved in an explanatory note the legislation of the Russian Federation under article 395 of the Russian Federation Tax Code, provided for the benefits and opportunities for religious organizations to use land on various titles. So I'd like you to listen to another report from the head, a member of this profiling committee. I would ask this bill to be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u3	Yes. Are there any questions? Sign up. It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Fast, socialist faction. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, please tell me, as you say in today's language, the monitors the attitude of the canonic churches to this problem. Is there a contradiction? Or which churches today want to take precedence over this, in view of the fact that they are canonic and that there are some other religious creatures in us who seem to have no view of it. That's the first question for you. And the second. You know, I've been doing my best to keep the land inside Kiev's monastery for the Moscow Patriarchate. I've been doing this as a deputy for two years. How we can now influence these lands to be allocated to local self-government authorities, but in the end they will decide. I mean, what we're going to do today is we're going to give the authority to the church to go through that new circle that other creatures are going through with this topic in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u5	I'll start at the end. This aspect is not to be fibrous and then there are no complaints or abuses that this land is being used in the wrong way. I mean, this hair. or the reason for launching such a fibula, so we complement section “b” of section 1 of article 141 of the Earth Code as follows: “The cessation of the activities of religious organizations, and I will also note that the land areas provided to religious organizations for the continuous use of religious facilities, as well as for the construction and maintenance of religious and auxiliary facilities, are prohibited from being used to carry out entrepreneurial activities.” Thus this complaint or remark cannot be taken into account. One more thing. You can see that this bill was introduced in 2006. All this time, this bill was in agreement with the churches that are represented and registered in the Minusty. I'm not going to tell you what kind of canonic, non-connotic attitude it is that of the churches. I'm actually a proponent of the church being a non-citizen organization and I'm deeply wrong about the president who's trying to create something. Because our local church, the Church of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, exists from.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u6	And you're doing the right thing because it's a different problem. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u7	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I unfortunately did not know that this bill would be considered today. I could ask you in detail on my committee, but I have a few questions. First. What are the limits of the land area, because not only is there a fence around the church, but there are monasteries that also have agricultural land. Do they also consider passing them on for life? The other one. Do they have the right to rent parts of these land? And the third. How to be or anticipate something in the law you're proposing, because I'm going to support it. Don't be distracted by Jaroslav Mikhailovich, don't be distracted, because you won't hear that I am. And the third. What about those who have already occupied land areas, will they be legalized on their own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u8	John Mikolaiovich, regarding monasteries, monastic peasants, was in our history and we taught this subject of the history of the Soviet Union. This is the case, the law provides for the maintenance of religious and auxiliary buildings, as well as for the construction of religious and auxiliary buildings. About land plots, about plants that candles produce, there are factories that produce attributes, it's not about, it's about entrepreneurship. By the way, it's tiny and the taxes they pay there too, they don't make the weather in our tax-filled budget. What about it? You can see that with us from the Ternopil region of the village of Rahmanov not the first year in the tent has been the broken church of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which has literally been thrown out, regardless of all the courts that have passed, and they continue to serve here. That's why I think it's not before this bill, it's before the bills that we do sometimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u9	Turkey, please. None. Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u10	Thank you. I have a question for you. I wouldn't be so careless about all the churches that are registered in the Ministry of Justice, because a lot of them have their centers abroad, and you know, in the United States, it's in Germany and all that. And even the United Nations has adopted a special document on this issue — opposition to destructive sects. That's why you don't just wave your hands. And how would you like to see, Mr. Jaroslave, tell us, please, that we are opposed, because we have traditional religions in Ukraine, and there are those that we will say so, we will fertilize and send out here and understandably what they are doing? We must still protect our traditional religions, for them we can create conditions, because this is part of the spiritual life of our society. So how would you have seen this warning, these objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u11	Dear Catherine Seminally, I fully share your concern at the point of view that we really do have a presence under the flag of some religious organizations actually pseudo-religious sects, because, in the Scriptures, to the Gospel, to the Bible, they have nothing to do with these sacred truths for believing things. That is certainly true. But at the same time, I don’t think it’s a place where we can discuss with those nontraditional churches, as we call it, or canonic churches. I would like this matter and these things to be agreed between the churchmen themselves and not to let their affairs be interfered with by either the President or the Supreme Council or anyone else. Moreover, I would not want any legislative act in Ukraine to be used as a pretext to say that we were here in the session room, in the area of discrimination against religious organizations as a sign of belonging to a particular religion. I don't think we've ever let that happen before, and we're never gonna let that happen. In this case, I was asked by Vitali Jakovic. I can say that there are positive reactions from the Ukrainian Orthodox Church about their interest in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u12	Only, I think Katerina Semenovna in vain called you a gentleman, even though you're from Ternopolish, but you're not an adult yet. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u13	Thank you. I'd like to thank my colleague, Jaroslav Sukhoma, for this bill, because I hope this bill is, indeed, and we will support everyone. I'm calling for a socialist faction and a communist faction to support this project. Why? First, the problem in Ukraine really is with land, and I want to say that from election to election, we had this populism -- Mr. Turkinov, deputy and party, and faction -- around Yulia Timoshenko, who had always initiated similar draft laws before the elections, especially the evangelists voted for them, and then, after the election, they forgot them. That's why we're not before the elections today, we just want to solve this problem, and so that we know all the believers -- both Orthodox and evangelists, that there are populists like Julia Timoshenko and the Turks, who always speak words, and they haven't actually done it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u14	I want to thank Mr. Sulkowski for evaluating this bill. And for the people's deputies of Ukraine, especially for Mrs. Samuelk, the distinguished Catherine of Simeon, the virgin, I want to tell you that we have 12,000. 592 religious organizations officially registered. They own today, more faithfully, they run 10,000. 300 acres, it's not an orno-earth, it's a land under a cult structure. Of these, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church or, if its journalists are called the Canonic Church, it has seven thousand, more, with something. Particularly large areas of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church occupy under our ancient primordial monasteries, because they cover laurels – Pochaevska or Kyivska or Donetské region – large lands. So I think and I would like to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u15	Yes, thank you. Bevanzenko Valerij Fedorovich is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u16	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On December 12, 2006, the Committee considered at its meeting a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the right of religious organizations to use the land on a permanent basis. The bill proposes to amend articles 92 and 141 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, as well as article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, according to which land is intended for permanent use by religious organizations solely for the construction and maintenance of religious and auxiliary facilities. But it is forbidden to use such land to engage in entrepreneurial activities. The cessation of the activities of religious organizations is a reason for ending the right to use the land. The Supreme Council had previously considered similar laws, but many comments had been made. The bill has been drafted by the authors, taking into account the comments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, and therefore the committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Well, I think we said everything we wanted to. You won't be adding any more, believe me. Are they insisting? Sign up for factions. Yes, please, 9 minutes. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, you know that I in vain thanked Jaroslav Dryma as the author of this bill. I want to tell you that really in recent years there have been a lot of unresolved issues about land and local self-government, and other executives have different approaches to solving this issue. And this question is practically referred to. On the other hand. I would say that today there are differences of opinion between national MPs and politicians on this issue, but I want to say that we can't be judged. For example, the community is founded, it registers -- it's like it's going through Minust and it's all about blocking that land. Blocking the land and not giving it to communities that live and lead in a way that is not in favour of Ukraine. This is how we should approach ourselves in principle and not give. And that's why I think today any church in favor of Ukraine is praying to the Orthodox, who believe in Ukraine, for the better life of the Ukrainian people. I think there should be no blocking in solving this problem. And that's why I didn't in vain today, and I told some politicians, because you know very well that, especially in the previous summons, as a national MP, I've met the positions of this Mr. Turkinov, who calls myself an evangelist. And here's this Evange. Evan. Evangelical Baptist Christians, they just voted in favour of this party -- "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block," where in western Ukraine today I visit and ask them, "How so?" And they all say that we are, indeed. We're wrong. We were not wrong simply because there were evangelists who believed there. And the lie is that they're not the masters, that they can only destroy the entire economy and so forth. And about no welfare of a better life, these political wasteland, they can do absolutely nothing to Ukraine. So today, really, let's do the people's deputies who work honestly and conscientiously for the benefit of the Ukrainian people in Parliament, let's do this bill anyway. Indeed, he will bring no harm in Ukraine; he will only bring harmony, good, and better life. And we will calm the Orthodox believers in this problem, because there is a problem, indeed, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u19	Vitaly's out of control.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u20	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, a faction of socialists. I want to say on behalf of our faction that, well, we think that this is, that the relationship between religious buildings, the communities themselves, whether they have or not to have land and the relationships there should be, is absolutely necessary for today. Everyone knows that all the religious buildings of today have land to rent. And no matter who tries today, no matter what cult buildings or churches or chapels are built there, they're still going to stay, no one is going to destroy the cult buildings today, no matter where they are or who they are. So for today it is necessary to bring this in order to resolve the question of how this will continue to exist, on what basis? And still, in order to figure out how new cult buildings are going to be, if there are any such intentions, there are these relationships. It's very important, or we can just lose the ability of one side of the state to track this process today. It's very important. On the other hand, I would like to point out that if there are leases today, how do we get out of this? The bill that is proposed, and this bill is absolutely necessary, it doesn't tell us how to get out of this situation. As those who are in the leases of the earth, they will then be used, but they will be reprofiled in the fact that the earth will be passed on forever. In fact, if Jaroslav Mikhailovich here today spoke faithfully and analyzed access in other countries, it must be said that in some countries there is a concept such as concordat, when the State and religious communities conclude, contract with each other as to how to continue to exist, including the use of land. And the third question that we really need to solve today is, you know, I'm going to remind our listeners and colleagues that monasteries have ever been built on land that was far from the population. That is, the brothers have always conquered these lands, and then the population has been gathered around these monasteries, and where there are some or others that have already been inhabited. Today, many religious buildings are in cities that are now reserves or other areas. Well, for example, the Church of Saint Nicholas is in a park called Grishka. How is there to be divided into today? Today this bill does not indicate how to divide what is acquired today as a reserve, as a garden where thousands of our citizens walk, and at the same time as there is an opportunity for this church to really feel comfortable for use. Therefore, we need to accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u21	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dearly beloved, our radio listeners! In fact, we are today considering such a long - suffering bill that we have not supported once. And perhaps not the drafters of the bill were because he did not find support in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this law and we will do it for our constant, systematic support of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, I emphasize. And by supporting traditional religions. But I wouldn't be so happy to draw a picture, let me give you an example. We have such a recorded “Maharish” sect, for example, in my Herson region, it holds a pioneer camp on the seashore. Moreover, it gives people a job, but if you get more in the cult than the person who didn't join the cult. There are sects that specifically involve our towns, our people taking property from them, and here I want the drafters of the bill, the Honorable College of Sukhoma to say that we have to go very carefully to this issue. We need to understand the great role, first of all, of Orthodoxy, in the spiritual state of our country, but we must, after all, protect both society and our state, and if you want to know our Orthodox faith from these activities of all sects. Right, they're going to have money, they can still pay today, bribes to carry in Kiev, in district centers, pay and get a better piece of land and build churches that we both see, and different churches that don't apply at all to our traditional religions. And so, I would insist and I would ask everyone to back up, we have to adopt this bill in the first reading, and then we have to work on it. But a better gift for our Orthodox Church would be if we adopted a new edition of the Ukrainian Freedom of Religion Act and religious organizations, a basic law that would decide all the issues that would define Ukraine as an Orthodox state. Because some, even from the leaders of the state, are afraid to say that Ukraine is the cradle of Orthodoxy. And so, I would like us not to rush into it, to accept it in the first reading, and to prepare ourselves for the second reading, for acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u23	Thank you. Question completed. I would like to stress once again that both the reporter and the speakers have stressed that the bill is, as they say, "with the beard". It should be accepted and let us vote in the first reading. And I would ask the committee, and the authors, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, I'm addressing you, and the committees, I would ask those people who are considering this issue, not so much on land, because there are not so many land issues here, there are other issues. And I would like to do everything we can to make sure that by accepting it in the second reading, we have really established positions behind those church organizations that refer to the direct understanding that it is the Church, not the many thousands of sects and sects that will want to use this law and not use it for the benefit of our society. Because you know how they sometimes work, decomposing our morals and morals of our society, especially young ones. So in the first reading, let's vote and ask, once again, to do everything in preparation for the second reading, to take into account that these benefits, these preferences we give to the church's organs really pits, not sects and sects. Well, let the experts write down who has the right to use this law. I am betting on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 2426 on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the right of religious organizations to use land on a permanent basis. Please vote. [[16:32:00]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Suhi wants to thank us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your support in the first reading of this bill, now this bill belongs to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you of Adam Ivanovich, who responded to your remark. The point is that the comments you and Catherine Semenovna make relate, not to permanent land use, but to status. Thus, the law needs to be changed about freedom of conscience and religious organizations. In this case, it's just about the constant use of land, they're still going to get that right. Or through rent, and these get through constant. For six months now, our churches have also been through tax administrations, so ask Tetjana Ivanovna, and they are claiming, “When will you be taxed on the ground? ” But we simply put ourselves in a difficult position. Imagine, by the end of June, when we can still prepare for the second bill, what's more, the second reading position is not about the warnings you said. They apply to another law, freedom of conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u25	I can't agree with you that they don't apply. Sadly, we have read what they want to read, including the Constitution, not to mention laws. And they will read, not the Freedom of Conscience Act, and religious organizations will read this law, and thousands of sects will use it, not use it. We'll be back with you soon, and everything will be fine. Yes, a second reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution contracts, registration number 3302. Please, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Ukrainian people's deputies, we resubmit Bill 3302. What happened to him during that time. First, the committee, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, finalized the bill and the outcome of the drafting, and it was finalized in the light of the comments made here in the Chamber, the People's Deputies, as well as the comments of the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result, new amendments or revisions of previous amendments have been introduced, with regard to amendments 5, 6, 9, 11-17, 18, 19. Second. Here in the previous Chamber, when the bill was under consideration, there was a discussion as to whether any additional tax benefits were granted by the bill. You're given a comparative table, a comparative analysis. The issue of taxation that the bill regulates. It is also included in this table in the explanatory table of the Ministry of Finance, from which you can see that the bill does not introduce any additional tax benefits, but simply details and clarifyes the tax matters currently in place. Next question. This table is distributed on the hall. Next question. There is. Why does this bill need to be so urgent? Why is he moving out so fast again? If you remember, our Russian neighbours, in due course, had a very interesting situation in a zone like this called Sakhalin. That's what this is about. When such an agreement is concluded with investors under the SSR treaty, the treaty regulates all relations and future relations, including as of the date of signature of such a treaty. If legislation changes, the investor will operate in Ukraine under conditions that existed on the date of signature of the treaty. As far as I know, the Cabinet of Ministers has confirmed, in August, a serious treaty on the division of products with a foreign investor, an American company, will be signed at the beginning of July. Thus, Russia was in a situation where an investor brought material values here, including those that had nothing to do with the work, recreational yachts there, consultations of foreign professionals and so on, and this was all compensated by Russia for the gas obtained there in Sakhalin territory. We want to correct this and not allow it in our country, we want such compensation to be paid to a foreign investor only within the framework and in accordance with the rules approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u27	Allow me to finish, but remember, this is the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u28	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u30	This is about amendment 5 to this law, it's very important, please bear that in mind. And the last. The Cabinet of Ministers sent a letter supporting the bill, but he drew attention to the fact that, unfortunately, one boring fingerprint had been stolen from the bill. If you don't mind, I'll give her a call. It's on page nine in the comparative table. This is the case with respect to article 25 of the Act, in particular the return of article 22 of the Act, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. This is where export duties are initially referred to, and in the end, why did they appear “surprising”. This is just a technical seal, it needs to be corrected and the word “input” replaced by “visit”. That's it. I'm ready for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u31	Yes, of course. Dear colleagues, we have already voted on this law. I mean, as amended, we've been through some new amendments here besides what we're counting, I'd like to ask you to take into account the technical amendment that the reporter, Yuri Mikolaiovich, spoke about. We will not vote on the amendments. The point is that we needed a few votes to adopt the law as a whole. The only thing I'd like to ask you is, and the Minfin, as long as they're here, the law has become effective since the day it was published. And he has some pretty serious, pretty serious reasons for reducing the state budget or increasing it. Well, anyway, we're intruding in here on the subject of customs and other preferences, and according to the Budget Code, we can't accept them. So consider this, and I think it's worth putting it in if we're going to accept it from January 1st next year. But the proposal from the day of publication, let's keep it from the day of publication. The table is comparable to or more accurately not comparable, but an explanatory table of what and how, what we talked about when we first failed to get the support given. Surrendered and, I think, you've met her. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements. Bill 3302 registration number. Please vote. [[16:40:49]] For 218. Show the factions, please. Region Party – 173, Socialists – 28, Block Timoshenko – 6, Communists, “Our Ukraine” – zeros, non-fractional – 1. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[16:41:26]] For 230 We're back. I am voting on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements throughout the Act. [[Registration number 3302]] Please vote. [[16:41:57]] For 232 Copy that. The law is passed. Second reading. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Proceeds by Crime. [[Registration number 2847]] Giga Mikola Vasilovich. Please. Now we have every opportunity to accept it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear national deputies, invited! Your point is to propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of the Proceeds of Crime. It should be noted that the committee has taken into account the proposals of the General Legal Directorate for the presentation of the title of the bill in this edition, entitled “To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine to prevent the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the financing of terrorism”. This is due to the changes made not only to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime, but also to the Ukrainian Civil Code, Banking and Banking Act, Financial Services and State Markets Regulation. The proposed changes improve domestic legislation aimed at depriving criminals of the proceeds of crime, their means of obtaining them, and their fight against terrorist financing. The bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, developed by the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine, is consistent with the professional ministries, namely those institutions that directly applied the laws of Ukraine on preventing and combating the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and on financing terrorism. The study of the practice of applying these laws is based on the proposed project. The bill takes into account the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, international agreements, the recommendations of a group to develop financial measures to combat money-laundering, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe Directives on preventing the use of the financial system for the purpose of money-laundering and terrorist financing. The committee dealt with 32 proposals and amendments that came from the legal entities of the legislative initiative, the Association of Ukrainian Banks, which were largely accounted for. We would like to make a special mention of our colleague, the Ukrainian national deputy, Yuri Mikolaiovich, who made 29 proposals and amendments, the 21st of which are considered by the committee. The same is true of all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Legal Department, and some of them are also taken into account. On the other hand, the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine provided the committee with a thorough explanation of these observations and suggestions. These clarifications were quite convincing for the committee members, so the committee agreed. As a result, the committee decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill on second reading and in general. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u33	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Yes, who insists on taking into account his amendment or wants to vote on the amendment that the committee has taken into account? You don't? Is he happy? Of course, 21 counts, so it's a record. Yes, then we have reason to vote on the law as a whole. 2847 is the number of the bill. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of the Laundering of the Proceeds of Crime." Please vote. Let's hit the law on corruption! [[16:46:06]] For 259. The law is passed. Thank you. Now we're going to avoid certain sanctions. If, in fact, it's signed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on clarifying positions and eliminating contradictions]] 3273. Second reading. Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u34	Bill 3273 on amendments to a number of Ukrainian laws, sponsored by Mr. Melniczuk and Zubko, our colleagues from Sozpartia, was considered on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy on 13 June and decided unanimously to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u35	No, not in the first. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u36	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u37	That's the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u38	Yeah, that's the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u39	Yes, please take this. It's a second reading. Take the table. Please. He was just hoping we'd take a long time to hit the water in the foot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u40	I'm sorry. On the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all amendments to the bill have been considered, the main mass of which has been taken into account by our colleague Mr. Filindash, most of which have been taken into account, has not been taken into account. If a comment is needed, I am ready to comment on each amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u41	Right. Eugene Filindash and I will discuss with Zubko and with Melniczuk what they didn't count, they'll talk to him. Don't insist on Filindsch. Although most of them are counted, aren't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u42	90 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u43	Yes, most of Eugene Filindash’s amendments are included. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u44	Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction. I don't insist on that. That most of the rights are, indeed, taken into account, I'm grateful to my colleague and to the committee, the ones that aren't included are not principled, so I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u46	There is a proposal by the lawyer of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the title of the bill somewhat. They believe that it would be more appropriate if the Supreme Council of Ukraine referred to the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine and placed an end to it. Adam Ivanovic, and this is what is written in the bracket on clarifying the provisions and excluding contradictions, is suggested by the lawyers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to exclude this from the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u47	I'm voting on a motion to change the name of the law. Please vote. [[16:50:00]] For 232 Copy that. With the exact name I'm referring to the adoption of the whole law number 3273. Please vote. [[16:50:24]] For 243 The law is passed. Thank you. A project on the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009 is under consideration. [[second reading]] Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we adopted a new privatization programme for 2007-2009 with you on first reading last Friday. I would like to recall that to date, there is an age-old old three-year programme 2000-2002, which is long overdue, and whose standards are far behind because life has moved forward. We accepted it on first reading. After that, the amendments that had been made to the Committee — five amendments — had been considered. Together with the State Property Fund, we have reviewed these amendments, and all five amendments are incorporated into the new text of the law. I only want to say that another small stylistic impreciseness has been stolen into the law, and I should say that in part two of paragraph 13 the words “independent experts” should be replaced by the words “the path of independent evaluation”. Such a replacement would meet the requirements of the asset valuation methodology. That is, it would be as if the law were fully aligned with the method of assessing public property. I therefore reiterate that all the amendments are fully taken into account. It is proposed that this law be adopted on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who are the authors of the amendments. True, I almost don't see them here, or, more specifically, those that are included. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, took into account all his amendments, the committee. If there is no objection, given what Mikhailo Vasilovich said to clarify certain legal provisions of this law, and with the clarifications that the rapporteur said, I am voting on the adoption of the whole Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009, registration number 3512. [[16:53:01]] For 229 Privatization programme accepted. The important thing is to sell and make money. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization. Registration number 3513. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we have adopted not only a privatization programme last week, but also, since the privatization programme in first reading, today we have adopted on second reading as a law, philosophy or the ideology of sales, and the legislative acts themselves have been formalized under the privatization programme into another bill, which has been called: amending some Ukrainian laws on privatization, as some legislative acts have had to be amended under a new philosophy or the ideology of the privatization programme. We also adopted this bill on Friday to amend some Ukrainian laws on privatization in the first reading, after which we worked with the State Property Fund on second reading. There are 7 amendments, all 7 amendments, the same, are fully taken into account. Please also adopt this law on second reading and in general, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u51	Yeah, and legally, do I get any conclusions from the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u52	It's just us, that, Adam Ivanovich, when you said that there were observations of legal administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u53	It was a scientific experiment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u54	The most important proposals, taking into account the positions of the State Property Fund, have been taken fully into account, and I propose that this bill be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u55	No one insists on voting the amendments? I am voting on the adoption of the whole law amending some of Ukraine's privatization laws, registration number 3513. [[16:55:11]] For 236 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport is under consideration, registration number 3448. [[on tariffs]] Demčišen Vasil Vasilovich, member of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Don't kiss, Valentina Petrovna, don't kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your opinion is proposed for the second reading of the bill on amendments to the Law on Urban Electricity. On June 15, we considered the bill in the first reading. He's got support. And this law, you remember, refers to the problems that have now arisen on our electric transport because not all damage is compensated by the transfer of the benefits categories of the electricity population and the electric transport companies. In addition, in June of this year, the electricity benefits provided for in the City Electricity Act are terminated. So before the second reading, we discussed the bill with the committee. And at today's session, a clearer definition was made of the very term of this electricity premium, which is until January 1st, 2010, namely, by the end of the new financial year or the beginning of the new financial year. In addition, in the transitional positions, it was proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should prepare legislative proposals on the mechanism of formation, the same, by the first January 2010 electricity tariffs for urban electricity transport in general use. These proposals were unanimously supported by members of the committee. And we suggest that you support this bill in the second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u57	Yes, Your Honor, the report is complete, all changes have been made. The only one. Vasil Vasilovich, go over there, you're asked by your colleagues to support you. The only thing is, I'm talking to Minfin again. Is there no one here? Is it considered that the benefits of June will disappear in the state budget? Who can tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u58	No, no. The point is, in June, the benefits are over. So in 2007, the government budget considered that there was no such benefit. We're adopting the law now, and we ask that if it's signed, it should immediately take effect, that's what I'm talking about. Okay. There is a vote on the adoption of Law 3448, amending the Ukrainian Law on City Electrical Transport. Whoever's driving, vote. [[16:59:12]] For 254 254 national deputies use urban electricity. The law is passed. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities. [[on the procedure for the appointment of State social assistance]] Registration number 3311, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons suggests that you consider, in a second reading, a bill of social orientation aimed at significantly simplifying the procedure for assigning our citizens who are actually caring for a child with disabilities under the age of 18 to the care provided for by the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities. Today, the above - mentioned law provides that persons who claim to be assigned this allowance for care and who are assigned only to nonemployed persons are added to the work and social protection offices of the population to receive help at the place of residence that they do not work and are not registered as business entities, nor are they engaged in entrepreneurial activities. In doing so, it is usually provided on a paid basis by an authority that registers an enterprise or a private enterprise. In this regard, our colleague in the parliamentary coalition passed an appropriate bill, which provided for the free receipt of this help. The bill was adopted on April 25, 2007, on the first reading. In preparation for the second reading, four suggestions were made, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine suggested that the problem be addressed even more radically, as it were in a positive sense. In particular, the government was asked to remove the rule that would provide citizens with information that they were not working. And to find out this fact, we should entrust the relevant local authorities with work and social protection of the population. In carrying out this initiative, the government has proposed that, with a view to implementing the rules of this Law, labour and social protection authorities have the right to use all sources of official information — that is, to make inquiries to the relevant public authorities on their own. The committee has considered the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the document in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u60	Thank you. All amendments are included, including amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on Budget Affairs. Although the committee is not a subject of the legislative initiative, the table should specify who made it, not the committee. That is why I am voting on the adoption as a whole of the Act, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons and Children with Disabilities on the procedure for seeking State social assistance, registration number 3311, please vote. [[17:02:55]] For 249 I don't understand. There was something very different about the board. 249, decision taken. Dear colleagues, be careful, we had three drafts of second reading in the order of the day for tomorrow. But since you and I made a decision this morning that we would be working with the voters tomorrow. So I ask, let's look at these bills in the second reading of Bill 2235-1 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts by Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. [[about ice-skating]] Ready? Please, from the committee. In order, 2235-1, he was scheduled for Wednesday. Wait, we haven't finished our second reading yet. Yes, here, my fellow countrymen, the amendments of the Holy People's Deputies. 13.06 The committee considered it. There are amendments to the Holy People's Deputy, they're six. Yes, ready, please, Yuri Mikolaiovich, if you're ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u61	This is Bill 2235-1, it's a government bill. A similar bill has already been passed by our colleague, the People's Deputy of Saints, 2235. The Committee has considered both bills, and 2235 have recommended that the Holy See be removed from consideration, as we considered Kabminovo to be more convenient and acceptable. He agreed, and he finalized the Kabinov bill with its amendments. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that most of the amendments to Bill 2235-1 have been made by the Government and approved by the Committee in advance for your subsequent approval. They are mainly about clarifying and correcting the shortcomings that our Chief Expert Office has identified. The Committee has considered the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u62	Thank you. I understand the situation. I repeat, 30, no, sorry, 12 amendments were taken into account, because I already spoke to Yuri Mikolaiovich about what was and his bill, and we accepted on the first reading of the government and proposed to the committee in furthering to take into account the positive that was the case with the colleague. I am voting on the adoption of an entire law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on leasing. Registration number 2235-1. Please vote. [[17:06:35]] For 259. Copy that. Act amending the Criminal Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine. [[on bringing into line with international standards]] 2491. From the Committee of Malisev Vladimir Stepanovich. I don't see him. Who from the committee is ready to say? None. Yes. Then let's see. The amendment of Moses is counted, counted, counted. Seven, eight. Thus, the nine amendments made by Moses ’ colleague, or former colleague, are taken into account. Leuchenko is the same. Moses - the following amendments are included. I mean, all the amendments that were made are taken into account. I think we have the subject of the legislative initiative here was the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a law. Act amending the Criminal Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine. [[on bringing into line with international standards]] Registration number 2491. Please vote. [[17:08:08]] For 254 Copy that. Thank you. And the Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on the Establishment of Responsibility for Violations of Legislation during the Declaration of Grains by Maintenance Subjects in the Crop Market. [[Registration number 3053]] Also the subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. The amendments made by colleague Husarov, four revisions included, five amendments taken into account after the sixth. And the colleagues of Krutz, a former colleague, are also accounted for. I'm asking you to uphold this law, all the more, you know the situation we're in right now, that we have enough to keep an eye on the grain market. I am betting on voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for infringements of legislation when declaring grains by operators operating in the grain market. [[Registration number 3053]] Please vote. Vote. [[17:09:32]] For 254 The law has been passed. Let us move on to the chapter “For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making”. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on the co-ordination of posts]] [[Registration number 3671]] Please vote. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:10:09]] For 253 Copy that. Please report to Tikhov, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill No. 3671, which proposes to amend Ukraine's laws on local self-government in Ukraine and on the status of members of local councils, is before you. As you know, according to section “b” of the first part of article 5 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, it is established that a public official or other person authorized to perform functions of a State has no right to engage in entrepreneurial activities directly or through intermediaries or persons of interest, to be entrusted to third parties in the affairs of the State body in which it works, and to work on conditions of coexistence other than scientific, teaching, creative and medical practices. However, part of the fourth article of article 12, part two of article 50 and part three of article 55 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine, further requirements for rural, rural, urban head, secretary of rural, rural, urban council, head of the district, district district council, namely, the prohibition of combining their service activities with other positions, including on public grounds. In practice, this leads to conflicts between rural, rural, urban, and law enforcement agencies. Because rural, rural, urban, and community leaders often take the lead in various federations, associations, political parties, and other social organizations. This problem was particularly acute for city council secretaries, district, district council officials, after the local level of the proportional electoral system was introduced. The existence of such a prohibition to reconcile its service activity with another position on public grounds only for rural, rural, urban, rural, village, urban council, district, district district council officials in the city of the Council leads to the uneven application of the law throughout the state and to conflicts with law enforcement authorities, and then to the deterioration of the social and political situation in the territorial communities where such opposition takes place. The bill therefore proposes to bring into line with the Ukrainian Law “On Combating Corruption” special restrictions aimed at warning corruption against rural, rural, urban head, secretary of rural, rural, urban council, head of the district, district district council in the city, excluding from part four of article 12, part two of article 50, part three of article 55 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine and articles six of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of Deputies of Local Councils” the words “including on Public Principles”. Please support me in the first reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u64	Thank you. Any questions? Have a seat, please. It was also a report by one of the initiators of the bill, under it are signatures of representatives of all factions, and as chairman of the committee. Shall we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u65	The point was that if the law and the law were to be followed, no local government chief could do any other work, even on public grounds, without even being his wife’s husband.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u66	Same thing. Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, indeed, the problem is indeed a serious one; we have considered this issue at the faction today. One is when the mayor of the city deals with issues related to some activity that is not related to his current work, and the other is absolutely objective when he remains the honourable president of the bank, heads the city, and all financial flows that go through the budget are practically channelled through the bank. And there are certain moments in that, there are some doubts. Therefore, our proposal is that we cannot vote in favour of this bill; it could be re-readed if some protective mechanisms and moments were developed to shield it from such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u68	Yes, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the compatibility of posts. 3671, please vote. [[17:15:46]] For 222 Let's see the factions. Calm down! It's gonna be okay. Have you seen it? Who's in charge of voting? Socialists, help! [[17:16:16]] For 233 We're back. Don't relax. I'm betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of draft Act No. 3671 amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the compatibility of posts. Please vote. Vote for Soviet power! And then in the 6th article, Catherine Semenovna. [[17:16:48]] For 237 Vote in general as a law? I am voting to support as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine. Registration number 3671. Please vote. [[17:17:17]] For 237 The head of the profile committee invites everyone to a friendly conversation after the meeting. It is necessary to include in the order of the day a draft Law on State Unitary Enterprises. Registration number 3254. A government bill. Please vote. [[17:17:50]] For 252 A decision has been made. Deputy Justice Minister Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich, please. Prepare the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u69	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposing before consideration a draft Ukrainian law on state-owned unitary enterprises, which requires a clear regulation of the legal principles of state-owned unitary enterprises for today's time without a systemless and insufficient regulation of the activities of these enterprises, without a clear order of their establishment and administration. Norms that determine the legal status of such enterprises are not concentrated in one act but dispersed by various acts. First of all, this is due to the fact that, in connection with the adoption of the Economic Code, the Ukrainian Business Act, which regulated the legal foundations of state-owned enterprises, became invalid. In accordance with the bill, state-owned unitary enterprises are formed as state commercial enterprises or casinos by decision of public property entities that exercise such powers in accordance with the law and act on the basis of a statute approved by the governing body. The project defines the legal regime of state-owned unitary enterprises. Yes, the property of a state - owned unitary enterprise is state property. In doing so, a project aimed at revealing the characteristics of government ownership itself uses economic and legal institutions such as economic knowledge and operational management. The project introduces the obligation to form statutory capital and determine the minimum size of the state commercial enterprise. The project also provides for the State Commercial Enterprise to have the right to alienate property belonging to its core funds by prior agreement of the governing body and only on competitive grounds, unless otherwise established by law. Another way to manage property belonging to the core funds is to have a state-owned commercial enterprise only within the limits of the powers and in the manner prescribed by the laws. The alienation of the entire property complex of a state commercial enterprise or its structural unit is carried out in accordance with privatization legislation. It should be noted that a casino does not have the right to dispose of its assets. Another important question highlighted in the project is the responsibility of a state-owned unitary enterprise. It has been determined that a state - owned business is responsible for all its obligations. However, a criminal enterprise is responsible for its obligations only through the funds at its disposal. The State and the authority that administers public property are not responsible for the obligations of a state - owned unitary enterprise. The project also sets out how to manage a unitary enterprise. The rights of the head of a state enterprise are defined separately, and the powers of the authority exercising control over public property as a representative of ownership are laid down in the Law on the Administration of State Property Objects. The final positions of the project, with a view to resolving disagreements, are amended accordingly to the Ukrainian Code of Masters, as well as to regulate the activities of enterprises and to the Civil Code of Ukraine. It should also be noted that the final position of the project by the authority that administers the property of the State is entrusted, within a year from the date of its entry into force, with the law to ensure that the statutes of state enterprises are brought into conformity with this law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it possible to adopt the prescribed draft law in the first reading, taking into account when preparing for the second reading of the comments and proposals made. Previous processing shows that it is possible to take into account the noted comments and suggestions. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u70	Thank you. Are there any questions? Bogchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u71	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. The honourable report, in its legislation, says more faithfully, in its code of conduct, that the penal enterprise is responsible for its liability only with the funds at its disposal. In the event of a lack of specified funds, the State in the administration of the entity has the full responsibility of the subsidiary for the undertaking’s obligation to do so. In the new amendments, we exclude it, so it can't, it can't be enough, it can't be enough, it can't be enough. In this case, who will be responsible for this criminal enterprise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u72	Well, first of all. Thank you for asking. You have referred to article 77 of the Code of Masters, there is, indeed, such a norm we propose to exclude. How does practice work? In practice, these funds should be budgeted. Unfortunately, in the budgeted budget, according to the Budget Code, these costs are not foreseen. In this case, if we don't have enough money to liquidate the company, it's going to become a bankruptcy. And the state should not be responsible for the undertaking’s obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, Europeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich, why today milk is needed for the committee to issue. It's true, I don't see anything on the committee heads. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, this bill is introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, you have already heard and you know it. The bottom line is this. This bill, in fact, is becoming both the Business Society Act for all business enterprises, and the law is intended to do the same for public or commercial enterprises and unitary enterprises. The Committee, at its meeting on 13 June this year, considered the bill and recommended its adoption on first reading. The Committee drew the attention of the drafter of the Kabmin Ukraine to the fact that there were a number of rules in the bill that did not conform or collide with the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Code of Commerce. That is also what our Chief Expert Office has pointed out. The Committee also drew the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the fact that all forms of property in our country were equal, if I am not mistaken, to article 42 of the Ukrainian Constitution. At the same time, there are two Kabmina bills, one bill is a new Act on Shareholders and a second bill, the one on State Unitary Enterprises. For example, even the amount of the statutory fund and it is made at exactly the same rate. Given that the bill is finalized before the second reading, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? It's all clear. I think it's worth unifying and, in fact, legitimizing state-owned unitary enterprises. And here's the thing about unitary property is that the enterprises are two forms of property and the casinos, and the ones where there are enterprises and not just with the state share of property, the share of property. [[purely stately]] I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on State Uniting Enterprises, registration number 3254. Please vote. [[17:25:55]] For 251 Adopted in the first reading. It is necessary to include in the agenda and to consider the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Insurance. Registration number 3547. Also, the subject of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[17:26:30.]] For 246 Included in the agenda. Please, Victor Petrovich Korge, Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports. Get ready, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports is proposing a government draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on General Pension Insurance. By 2006, funding for family - type and foster homes had been made from local budgets. One of the foster parents was getting a cash reward, and the material reward wasn't anticipated for the foster parents. According to the 2005 study, funding for children’s homes and foster families found that the level of funding for such families was fundamentally different from that of the region, the placement of a children’s home, or the foster home. Family funding has changed even within one area. Since 2006, the financing of foster families and family - type children’s homes has been made from the State Budget as a subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets. Ukraine's State Budget 2006 and the State Budget 2007 provide for expenditure for public social assistance for orphans and children deprived of parental care who are raised and kept in foster homes and foster families, cash provision for foster parents and foster parents of 35 per cent, the amount of social assistance for each child. As a result, foster families were created four times as many in 2006 and children’s homes 1.7 times the number created during the previous six years. At present, however, the issue of parental care of foster homes of the family type and foster parents is not addressed if they are not working. If insurance contributions for foster parents and foster parents were paid by the labour and social protection authorities from the State Budget as expenditure on compulsory public social insurance and by the congregations on compulsory state pension insurance from the amount of their financial security. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 07 works. 50 foster parents and foster parents raising 3,000, 116 orphans and children deprived of parental care. All of this in the framework of the Ministry's concept of support, not for interstate adoption, not for foreign adoption, but for our country's adoption. The bill that we're proposing to you is for the extension of the Ukrainian Act "On Public Pension Insurance" to parents of foster parents of foster homes of the family type, foster parents, if they don't work and raise orphans those children who are deprived of parental care. The other one. This is the arrangement for paying contributions to a general government pension scheme for such persons. The adoption of the law regulates the pension provision of foster parents if insurance contributions for foster parents and foster parents are paid by the labour and social protection agencies of the State Budget. This bill is funded by the 2007 State Budget. No additional budget is foreseen. In view of the positive conclusion of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Family Affairs, youth and sports, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority asks you to support this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention. Thanks in advance for our support, we count on it very much because it is an important social issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u77	You can be sure. No questions? Have a seat, please. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! Since the honourable Victor Petrovich here has quite detailed the content of this document I do not have so much to say that the committee has carefully considered this bill, we consider the problem of resolving the pension insurance of parents who accept it, who take adoption extremely important and therefore the committee has decided to support it in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u79	Would you please sit down and discuss it? None. Then we will vote with honorary colleagues literally two words. I think we need to listen to the request of the Ministry and the decision of the committee of profile, and I remind you more recently, at least, more recently, when the President of the State held special meetings in Žitomir, where it was dedicated to children of the family type. And I think he'll be happy to sign this law. I am voting on the adoption of the whole law amending the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Pension Insurance, registration number 3547, as a whole, as a law. Please vote. [[17:32:28]] For 261 Copy that. Dear colleagues! Two minutes of attention, please, Castle Mikola Ivanovich, please. Listen to the announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Timoshenko Block makes an official statement of the following content. “We, the National Deputies of Ukraine, elected as the constituency for the election block of the political parties “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” including the other 129 National Deputies elected from the same bloc, have written statements of membership of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, which were handed over to us to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation on 25 May 2006 at the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth occasion of the conclusion of the oath. In addition, in pursuit of the purpose of the secondment of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 103 national MPs announced their exit from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Without sharing the position of leadership of a faction that we believe may have had unforeseeable consequences, a group of national deputies have refused to leave the faction and have returned to the session room to exercise parliamentary authority. By swearing allegiance to Ukraine, we committed ourselves to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people, upholding the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and shouldering our responsibilities in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Therefore, by rejecting the exit from the MP's faction, we state that the MP's faction of Yulia Timoshenko, despite all the insinuations and statements by its former leaders, has not ceased its activities and continues to work in Parliament on the fifth call. Since the faction’s leadership has now emerged from its composition, the majority of the members of the factions have been elected as the head of the faction. We believe justice will prevail! National MPs of Ukraine, members of the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, signatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m1.u81	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Since the 60th article foresees that the chairman make an announcement as to who enters the faction, at this point our colleagues have agreed: Zakovenko, Kovtunenko, Olijnik Vladimir, Antipov, Chichkov, Sinchenko, Eden, Nadosha, Tkachenko Vladimir, Lutsky, Polishtuk, Lebedev, Veršinina, and Vitenko. I think there's still room for expansion. And in closing this topic, my fellow honourable Members, I would like to say two words to the lawyers or not to the lawyers of the political party of the non-removals - the People's Union “Our Ukraine”. They're very active in commenting on everything that's going on in the Supreme Council. To health, let them comment. But I would ask native lawyers not to give grades they don't know. Because the final statement of these lawyers is that the chairman has no right to announce the entry, exit, creation and so on, factions. I recommend that you read Article 60 of the Rules carefully, clearly speaking, for those who have an education and who can read. Because I have a lot of doubts when you read what those lawyers say they have not only a legal education, but any education at all. All the questions that were put into the agenda were discussed with you. This evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I would like to remind you that tomorrow at 15 a.m., parliamentary hearings devoted to a rather topical issue, and the head of the profiling committee, Katerina Samoylik, invites you to participate in these meetings. And according to what we've adopted today, we've been working with voters from 20 to 26, and they've been waiting for us, because we've been working for three months practically exclusively in the sessional mode; and 27 or, if necessary, we're going to meet with you before. Good luck.
