ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u1	I'm asking you to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[17:05:55]] There are 255 national deputies in the hall. I'm opening such a specific session because today we're on schedule after lunch working on committees and factions, but we need to consult on the mode of our further work. The point is that, for the time being, progress in the legal regime before reaching the constitutional basis of the interaction between the authorities in the country is not being made, we see delays in the Constitutional Court for various reasons. We see, to some extent, the actions of the courts of general jurisdiction in caves, elsewhere. There is no negotiations between the Prime Minister and the President, although they have been announced since yesterday and so forth. So obviously we need to choose a mode of work that allows us literally to meet in 15 minutes and make the right decisions when we need it. That's why I asked your consent to meet at this time today and determine such a regime literally from tomorrow, including the weekends, and the following Sunday. In view of the fact that there will be meetings next Sunday, there will be committees and factions working, not in violation of the calendar plan, but with the specificity that if there is a need, then, at the direction of the Head or First Deputy, you will be meeting, discussing the situation, making the right decision, and removing the problem. I understand this need and I would like your support in this regard. Then, if that's perceived, I'd like to vote, let's say, that kind of content is a short resolution. Support the proposal of the Head of Parliament to convene the plenary as soon as necessary. Let's put it this way: to the Head of the Supreme Council. Sure. Instruct the Chief of the Supreme Council or the First Deputy to convene a plenary meeting immediately if necessary. Yeah? So this is it. The decision will be distributed on these days, including the weekends, and including the following week, and we will continue to watch as we make a decision to cancel the decision. We don't violate the calendar plan or the parliamentary regime, but we have to be ready all the time, reacting to the wrong actions that we see once and for all. And once again, I would like you to participate in explaining to the population in a way that seems possible for you that even the President's decree -- I'm not talking about this anti-constitutional action that we don't recognize -- even the legislative decree on parliamentary elections does not mean that the parliamentary office is terminated and that the parliamentary function is terminated, not by the President's decree, but by the Constitution, because Parliament is governed by the principle of the independence of power as a reflection of the Constitution in the first part of the 90th article of the Constitution, where it is determined that Parliament is suspending its work after the oath by the deputies of the new convocation. And the continuity of the exercise of power in Ukraine is, it applies to all the lines of power. I would like to make it clear that we know all of this and that we can bring to the attention of all the citizens of Ukraine. The proposal is made in relation to the mode of operation. I'm putting her to the vote. Please. [[17:10:43]] For 254 people's deputies. That's the decision to make. And we're taking it to the execution, and I mean me and Adam Ivanovich, because that's the first thing about execution, it's about us. And in proper mode, the Supreme Council apparatus will work, and I'd like you to know that. We've already agreed, we have the practice of ensuring Parliament's performance in a way that we've been tracking for months. So I think that's taken into account, too. Does anyone have any reports, any thoughts on the current situation? Please. So let's write it down, because it's going. Sign up. Let's get out of here. You go to the rostrum and the recording is still in progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u2	I'm not too much to take from the rostrum. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, in 2004, a decision was taken, and Lithuania subordinated the protection of the Supreme Council to itself. Is this done now?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u3	I understand. I don't think it's necessary right now and I'll explain it to you separately for a few reasons. We have a government service responsible for this matter. I had this conversation with the President and with the other officials, and I don't want anyone to set up any provocations, and then the Chief of the Supreme Council was guilty of this provocation, as if it didn't provide a proper response to specific services. But control over their activities is ensured. So we'll expect everything to be right. One. And the second. That we have asked law enforcement authorities to help us in this time of year to ensure the protection of objects of national importance is also meant for the Supreme Council, including. They have their own guidance and need not duplicate it. Who wants to make a statement? Wait, I'll see who's writing it down. Miroshenko, please. Then Koleschenko. I'll take it from here. I'll take it from the rostrum. From the rostrum, you look at people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to draw the attention of all those present in the hall and, most likely, our fellow citizens, our constituents, to what is now a very dangerous situation in Kiev, and they are linked to the activities of the country’s only legislative body. What do these events involve? The point is that there is an attempt to eliminate or interfere with the activities of the higher legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And this isn't just about an order that's unconstitutional, and we're proving this information at all levels. The point is that the heads of courts are widely replaced in order not to be accused or any other action on the other side, let's say. At the same time, you can see, by accusing us of pressing against the Constitutional Court, we see that the President visits the Constitutional Court, gives a political assessment there to any event or to any other, gives a political assessment of the claims or positions of the Supreme Council or individual factions, setting them up accordingly. We see today a precedent that has arisen and has been presented in a statement of resignation by the head of the Constitutional Court. In fact, the person who paid attention to all and in some ways protested the application for resignation. There's a lot of pressure going on. Taking advantage of what it is that the Presidential party recommended the head of the Constitutional Court for this position, they now require certain decisions that he does not wish to implement because they contradict the Constitution. There are meetings at the President's Secretariat, heads of administration are being gathered, instructions are being given. Dear friends, we were talking about usurping power, we were talking about hoochmism, we were talking about authoritarianism. What do we get now? I urge the President not to come down personally, not to repeat, not to create a precedent that all those people who went out on the field were struggling with. Dear friends, the only way is through a legal decision, a decision through the Constitutional Court. The Prime Minister has stated that we will submit to this decision. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council stated that we would submit to the decision. Why is there unwarranted pressure on the Supreme Council as a legislative body today? The leaders of the political forces are being accused, the officials of the Supreme Council, the factions are being accused. A party of regions is accused of all deadly sins. It's unacceptable. And I urge everyone to stop, start a dialogue, wait for the Constitutional Court's decision and only then take any action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u5	Thank you. I would ask, let's do as the lawyer says you told professional lawyers without emotion to consider the point. Please, Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u6	Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The issue of the State Service was raised today. Now, today, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Valery Bondik, has made it almost difficult to penetrate the TFTC territory because the State Security Service has provided enormous resistance and plus enhanced security. Question: Why is this, and what further action will we have with this service of the State?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u7	If you want me to make a request, not a request, but a request or protocol, you give me an order like that, I'll contact the head of the State Security Service to explain what the matter is. I've seen the same thing, for example, today I've been told by MPs who wanted to join the President's Administration -- exactly the same reaction, they don't recognize the credentials of MPs. Well, that's money at all. I remember the Soviet times when you could go to the C.C.C.P.S.R.R.D. for a party ticket, and no one asked where you got it from, or whatever, because they knew they gave it to you. I'm sorry, Kuchma's regime, as we say, went to the President's Administration with a deputy's certificate and no one pressured me. There was one occasion when we walked in and had to guard our shoulders for three hours, but the detail was in principle. So there were no warnings. And all of a sudden, today we feel this way about the MP. It's just an unacceptable thing. And once again, I reaffirm that a member of the state may be, including on a regular basis with certain procedures when necessary, I mean objects such as atomic stations, military units, etc., and in all structures, institutions of the administrative deputy may enter without hindrance. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. I'll take it from here. I'll take it from the rostrum. Suit yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! In support of the proposal for a decision on the organization of work for the next parliamentary week, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have documents in my hands that testify to official crimes. This is the case for the crimes of Davdovic, Stavniychuk and Usenko-Chernay. It is a matter of replacing the decision of the collegiate body, which is the Central Electoral Commission, with the sending of electoral telegrams to the administrations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the head of the Council of the Minister of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the heads of the district public administrations, and the heads of the city. And there are directives on how to conduct an electoral campaign. This confirms that this morning we witnessed the presentation of a telegram sent today that yesterday was the end of the deadline for submission of documents to the Central Electoral Commission. I believe that our position as work-blocking and correct comrades today must be drawn to the attention of the prosecutor's office and to Davidovic's criminal responsibility for gross violation of the law. Yeah, that's what we need to decide or talk about right now. Dawdovic also stated that three members of the Central Electoral Commission had applied to the Pecher Court as officials with a proposal, a motion for review, so to speak, of our decision of the Supreme Council on the Central Electoral Commission. Our fellow MPs have requested the Central Electoral Commission to show what documents have been applied to ensure that the Pechersky Court suspends the Supreme Council's rulings. These documents clearly confirm that they have not been submitted and no documents have been issued for submission to the court. Once again, I would like to point out that the actions that the President is taking when he invites Dawidovic to take the envelope and, of course, requires him to follow up on his actions as President of the Central Electoral Commission illegally in contravention of the law, I say that he invites the heads of administration, the law enforcement authorities, the Constitutional Court, and we are witnessing today that the President of the Constitutional Court deliberately fails to bring the people's deputies to justice on the constitutionality of the illegal President's Order has shown for too many times that we have created chaos in the State, in the administration, we have the dictatorship of the new criminal clan, Yushtenko and his family. I believe that we must make an appropriate decision on the permanent work of Parliament in order to protect Ukraine from slipping into totalitarianism and the wildest. The wildest dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u9	I ask you, Peter Mikolaiovich, to prepare from a few deputies a request to the High Council of Justice to examine the functioning of the Pecer Court in the matter. It's their business, they can give estimates of the appropriate and legal conclusions to make. But this has not yet been the case in our case when there was no appeal, and the court ruled. What is it, then, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, I think the answer here is completely clear. But let's put it all in the right order so the estimates are clear. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich. One more minute. One minute, Ivan Mikolaiovich, wait a minute. I want to say that the head of the Constitutional Court has indeed filed an application for his credentials. The Constitutional Court considered it and did not accept the resignation of the head. He thus fulfills his duties and must do what is required of him. Please, Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u10	I'm asking you to tell Ivan Sidorovich to Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u11	Ivan Sidorovich, please. Go to the rostrum. It will be. Ivan Sidorovich. That's the third he's asked for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. I think today’s evening meeting should be particularly mobilizing for us. And mobilized in what way. As you can understand, the situation after the President's illegal decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council could not be limited to one fact. And from various sources, I repeat, from various sources, there are reports that the President's decree to establish direct presidential rule in Ukraine should be signed shortly. If that happens, it's going to be a full-scale coup d'état, and the coup, you know what kind of coup it is. When we talked about the Fascist coups in Latin America, the coups in Africa and so forth, they want to do so in Africa today. And this is a very dangerous moment. I repeat, it's information that comes from different sources so far, but they're worried because they say the same thing from different sources. I think that, as the State’s supreme legislative body, we should also keep the representative body of the State in view of this, as former Supreme Council Chief Pavel Grigorovich Titchin said, keep the dust dry, that is, keep our souls, our legislative powers, our rights in all arms and understand that no one for us will do what we should do. I think, first of all, we need to warn the President that this turn of events is just not going to go away. We, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in this case have the right to address the UN Security Council, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the States guaranteeing the State sovereignty of Ukraine: the United States, Russia and China, not only for the possibility of discussing this situation, but also for assistance, by contributing to the preservation of constitutional order in Ukraine. There can be no other way. We don't give different kinds. [[Applause]] We will not give a variety of intrigues, provocations, adventurers, whatever positions they hold in the country, violate the Constitution and violate constitutional order in Ukraine. I can tell you that another, well, in conversation, there, in discussion, when we're told that there's not going to be a bloodshed, but something is allowed that can be shed and blood, and then they want to blame us, that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u13	Please let me finish. But you might want to express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u14	I'm done, I'm done. So I think we should all be here in these days, the main work of ours here, and we have to warn you anything, it won't be an attempt, and it will be a real coup d'état, a coup d'état with far-reaching consequences. And then all the elections, all the elections, you realize, in this country, it's not going to mean anything. Then the junta will rule, and whoever goes into this junta, we know these faces, we know these people, and we know what they're capable of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u15	Thank you. I'd like to ask everyone to abide by this condition. We're talking about facts, we're not talking about intent. I understand the concern expressed by Ivan Sidorovich, but you can be sure that our President will not take the steps that Ukraine takes. Please! Have a seat, please. They're making relations in the state under the rule of law. Because I'm asking for your attention! Well, have a seat, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich, take your seats. Because the Constitution of Ukraine in no way provides for a regime of presidential rule. And that means that what John Sidorovich already says, I don't allow it. And I think his warnings are possible, but they are. They need to be implemented when there are facts, not intentions. Maybe it's some kind of provoker. Please, Herman, instead of Zablodsky. She's out. Chief Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Alexander! You got a little ahead of me, that's what I wanted to talk about, and I wanted to encourage the deputies to be very careful about using certain terms and terminology. If there is no direct presidential rule in the Constitution, there is no such concept in the Constitution. You don't have to throw it to journalists, because they're going to chew right now, and they're going to ask everyone, and what do you think about direct presidential rule? And what the answer is, it's not in the Constitution. There is a state of emergency, there is a state of environmental distress, there is an extraordinary environmental situation, there is a state of war, and there is no presidential rule. That's the first one. The other one. The Constitution, in part of the President's mandate, 106 articles he's referring to, making it seem like he's driven us, tells him that there can't be a day in Ukraine that doesn't have a full-fledged Supreme Council. Article 106, paragraph 21, says that the President takes decisions in Ukraine or in its separate areas of emergency, and declares, if necessary, individual areas of Ukraine in areas of an extremely ecological situation, Tyre, followed by the approval of these decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Any day now, don't give it to the Lord, there may be a situation that should be issued such an order, and the authority that has to ratify it, approve it, the people have to give the word to it, consent to it, the people in your person are not, so why did they write this article? Remember, there was a problem with the avian flu, and so did, and I introduced, and I was in the government at the time. The decree was enacted according to the law, and then the Supreme Council ratified the decree. These decrees are subject to ratification, so that's exactly why it's necessary, because if the Supreme Council of the next call takes office on May 15th, as we do each year, then May 14th or May 13th or May 12th may be that the President's decree is required, but the Supreme Council is also needed to ratify. So there's no reason not to let the deputies into any of the premises. They didn't let go, so what? They violated the President's decree, he said we could do something on our own. Is it written in a decree? Written, not collective. So we're not allowed in, then maybe if we're not allowed in the President's Secretariat, they can arrest us now, which we have immunity on the grounds that we don't have a deputy anymore. So what is it? In short, I think the trend is really bad. And the last two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u18	New information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u19	Now, now, I'm saying give you a word, a chance to finish, because three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u20	I've just received another piece of information where there's still lawlessness in the judiciary. The Chief of the Supreme Court, Mr. Onopenko, has now sent an urgent commission to check on the Supreme Administrative Court, 20 people. In the law, there is no such thing in any Ukrainian law, authority, head of the Supreme Court, and there are no such checks. Why? The destabilisation of the court. At the same time, 20 people are required to be released for inspection by the head of the Supreme Court. Let's put it this way. Yeah, I know they don't, but it's about destabilizing in all directions. The Constitutional Court is a crisis because the head is gone because it's clear why. The Supreme Court has already intervened in this activity, giving some administrative commands. The C.V.C.C. and so on. In short, really, we have an extremely deep one. The beginning of a deep institutional crisis, of which we are collecting signatures from members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to include in the order of the daily debate in Ukraine in relation to the institutional or the crisis in the functioning of democratic institutions of power in Ukraine. I also want to say that I'm constantly in contact with my colleagues in PARJE, and I'm constantly in contact with other structures, and they're very worried about what's going on in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u21	Thank you. It's not a discussion, it's not a report. Go to him and ask him. He explained clearly: “Everyone can do what is right. So please use the status of a national MP. But I will address the President in writing, and I ask the Secretariat to prepare such a request, on the basis of the obstacles that have been made to the deputies who wanted to join the Presidential Administration on the basis of their certificates. Okay. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u22	Alexander Stoyan. The faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! What is the main motive of the President's decree on the early termination of the Supreme Council's powers? The main motive is that decent people, professional people, move in with us into our coalition. Then, with such an order, I think, honourable colleagues, that we need the President to issue another decree or we have made a decision to ban the transition from one political power to another. What do I mean? Julia Timoshenko's closest associate, Grandma Paraska, who said she was going to get a bullet for July, suddenly enters “Our Ukraine” at the convention and gives her flowers and certificates on her own honorary head. So, isn't this a hoax, at least one member of the party to another organization? Dear colleagues, next moment. If the President says that he is the guarantor of the Constitution, why does Mr. Lucenko, speaking on Maidan, say brutally, quote: “Mr. Yushchenko, you know that we hired you to work and work” – that is disrespect for the President, first. Secondly, we thought that at least half-Ukraine had elected him president, Yushchenka, it turns out, no, Lucenko hired him, Timoshenko hired him, he's at work. I wonder how much he's getting paid for this job. That is why he is doing this work, not concerned about the people of Ukraine. I mean, honourable colleagues, the decree issued by the President is unconstitutional. He opened his hands to the hecaches: Timoshenko, Lucenko, and others. And he will be responsible for the consequences of this HCP if blood is shed. That's why I have a specific offer. The voters, the people of Ukraine must know our position as deputies. I think we should vote today on the mistrust of the President of Ukraine for anti-constitutional actions as the guarantor of the Constitution and the people should know that we condemn these actions, we express our mistrust to him and he, as President, should resign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u23	Alexander Mikolaiovich, and other participants in the discussion, I ask you, if you are making an offer, then contact the article of the Constitution, which allows you to do so. I beg you, we must work alone in such a way as to demonstrate a pattern of respect for the laws and the Constitution. I understand that Parliament is also able to give political assessment to certain situations, but nevertheless. Savosin, Mendus instead of Savosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u24	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. I support the proposal to organize the work of the Supreme Council next week. But I would like to touch on something else. In its time, New York was one of the most criminogenic cities in the United States. And when Mayor Roberto Giuliani appeared in it, he introduced the principle required of all officials: the principle of a broken window. This mayor said that if the person who committed the wrong had broken the window, not brought to justice in time, it would cause him to commit more serious crimes. If we try to do an analogy, we have a situation in the country that is exactly the opposite. The President of Ukraine, after issuing an unconstitutional decree, led himself outside the Constitution, committed a civil crime, and violated the President's oath. As a result, there is a strong desire among his family today to demonstrate disregard for the Constitution and the rights of the State. What happened today about three dozen of our colleagues who came to the President's Secretariat to address the Head of State and when the door closed to them and the official with the smile on his face came out to explain to them that they were deputized, it was a disgraceful and unprecedented fact. But it is not enough to say about it today. This is a direct violation of the law in force, first of all, of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, which clearly defines and defines the rights, duties and responsibilities of the people’s constituents. So I would like to take this opportunity to contact you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, asking to give a protocol commission to the Attorney-General to respond immediately to this disgraceful fact, to call upon the responsibility of the official who collapsed, lost direction in time and in space, and who should be responsible for his actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u25	I am willing to do so and will do so, but please give me a brief statement on this matter. Write on the form what happened anyway, the storybook and I'll address it accordingly. Casualty, please. Is there a chance to take a risk? Okay. And Hara will make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I had to be on the Central Electoral Commission today, and I had the privilege of speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u27	I'm asking for your attention! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u28	I had the privilege of speaking to the head of the C.V.K. Davidovich and this led me to him. I've read in the last five days, the chairman of the Central Electoral Commission gave an interview in which he asked if there would be a call for early elections, which he believes would be. He said: “I feel it is my duty to draw attention to the fact that, first of all, the government budget does not provide funds for the conduct of the electoral company, the procedures allocated and the distribution of the necessary amounts are not written. Secondly, the terms and order of the ballots, their delivery is not regulated by law. Thirdly, the process of future formation of district and district commissions is very problematic. There is nothing clear about this issue, starting with a number of compositions. Finally, the situation with the voters' lists generally resembles a deaf angle, on the one hand, we have no right to use the lists of past elections and archives, on the other hand, the process of making new lists is not normal. The election centre as the organizer of the company will face a number of problems, some of which may generally question the results of the possible elections.” These are the words of David during the last five days. Today, on my question, both a member of the budget committee, how much money the Central Electoral Commission today thinks of holding elections, sending telegrams, printing. He said that the voter lists are ready, and the funds are to be allocated to the Ukrainian National Security Council. How this should be created, done, then everything in the state is governed by something else. This is a very serious question for me, so I decided to share with you, and I wanted to say one more thing. David’s entrance was free, but in a few minutes the exit was blocked. More than 10 employees, I don't know what kind of service, but they didn't miss it anymore, they let me out. So if in Ukraine everything else is regulated by other laws, and the status of the People's Deputy has already been annulled and so forth, I think that all the proposals that are being made here before the Supreme Council of the relevant decrees comes to an immediate conclusion should be voted on and put to the vote. Because from time to time the situation is much different from that of all organs in the constitutional field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u29	Thank you. Hara Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u30	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Before making a concrete proposal, I want to motivate. Well, we have to understand that in Ukraine there is a dictatorship, a barrage of law. Fraud by the Pecher Court - there have been no appeals, they make decisions and block our decision with you. The Constitutional Court is under pressure personally by the President and the President's Administration. Without a meeting of the Commission, Davidovich, without a decision, allows his team on the ground to start working on preparations for the elections. The secretariat of the President, Balog and the company provide teams to the governors, the BSS, the Centres, the army, the militias and so on. I have already spoken here, and I have reported, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, there is a violation of the MP's fundamental right to enter the building at all, a public building, including the President's Secretariat. The governors are in charge of the police, the BSS, all the other units. For example, Jury Pavlenko, prior to his arrival at the President's meeting, said: “Let us follow any order of the President, bear in mind that I am going to the meeting and I will come, I will tell you.” The governors have sworn to the President to comply with an unconstitutional decision and so on. And a proposal. Since the people do not know and understand the Constitution, I would like to read to you first of all, especially to our constituents and to you, article 16 of the Constitution states: "The legal order of Ukraine is guaranteed by principles that no one can be compelled to do what is not provided for by legislation. The authorities of the State and local self-government authorities, their officials are obliged to act only on the basis, within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine.” And especially article 30: “No one is obliged to carry out explicitly criminal orders or orders.” Most importantly: “The issue and execution of a manifestly criminal order or order will be subject to legal responsibility.” Therefore, Alexander Alexandrovich, I propose an order from the Supreme Council to determine, to name specific names that violate the Constitution, a law that warns of punishment in accordance with articles 16 and 30 of the law, i.e. that it is necessary. of irreparable retribution for violations of the laws. Names to indicate specific officials who violate the Constitution and the laws. We can do it in a day, in a week, in a year, but people have to understand that they're on the list, they're in the order, they're fixed, and they're bound to be punished. Because this legal barrage can only be halted by punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u31	Bronnikov asked for a word for the procedure. Out of procedure, please. I understand because you've had a discussion, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u32	Alexander Alexandrovich, we support the ruling that has been adopted and work on the committees for the next week. I inform you that the TEC Committee has held a meeting today with all officials appointed by Parliament and are working successfully. But there is information that other committees, such as the Committee on Environment and Chernobyl, are not working, dissolved. For example, your deputy Tomenko said on lunch break that he didn't work either. Let us, however, create the conditions for all the committees, all the officials appointed by Parliament to work, to ensure the work of the committees. This is an order to the Standing Committee to prepare such an order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u33	Thank you. The MPs are indignant because they say the committee is working. I can tell by the lines. Mikola Tomenko works in her office, I've been seeing him today, working hard. So let's just keep that in mind and not make any accusations like that. Please. Aunt Drought asks for a word from women.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u34	Dear Head, national deputies. We just got back from the President. I led a group of 12 women deputies. We had a long discussion of the painful issues on our part, and the President expressed his opinion. Clearly, mistakes on one side or the other are too much. But the only thing that we went and wanted to hear, and we did hear that the President was ready to sit at the table of negotiations with the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. If you ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u35	I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u36	If the women's request and the women's appeal, which was read on the Maidan, will come and, indeed, all that has been discussed today, and the President will, indeed, take all the steps that he has promised us, well then, I think the mission of women MPs is very useful and charitable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u37	Thank you. Well, you see, Alexander Mikolayovich, and you doubted it. Okay. Please. Do you still want to speak? Baranov's Bulby gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u38	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I just got a call from some of the heads of the district government. In Poltava today, the head of the district government administration, Mr. Assadchev, gathered the heads of the district state administrations and threatened that all those who would not sign a statement of support for the President's anti-constitutional decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council had been forced to sign the application. If anyone thinks that past elections have taken place democratically and without prejudice to the heads of state administration, I am officially informing you. Before the previous elections, the parliamentary heads of the district administrations, including me, were gathered at President Viktor Yushchenk's Secretariat before the elections, and in his presence in each area, the task was to achieve the “Our Ukraine” People's Union party result, the same result should be with the support of President Yushchenk in the 2004 elections plus 5 per cent. But then the situation was different. We were representatives of various political powers. The situation is changing now. If we don't respond, if we don't support the heads of the district government, then I'm convinced that these choices that they're preparing are about to turn into a farce, and the result, let Davidovich announce, he's obviously ready to announce, though tomorrow. I'm addressing the heads of the district government. Please read the law in its proper form. You cannot be released without consent without representing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I turn to their consciences, I turn to those who have signed under pressure under an anti-constitutional decree to support it, withdraw their signatures in writing, do not commit a crime, do not become parties to the crime, along with those who are under the Constitution bound to guarantee the implementation of the Constitution and the laws in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u39	Thank you, thank you for the message. That's enough, please. [[Applause]] I hope that the Supreme Council ruling, adopted in full compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, contains in its text a specific warning for officials of different levels. And they are well aware that crimes such as the failure to comply with the Constitution do not have an expiration date and will have to be held accountable for them. So I would ask them to be governed by the law, and then they would work and rest in peace. And all that goes beyond the Constitution will be given a proper assessment. I think that's what all the deputies think, they're here, that's what even Paul Gnatovich, who raised his hand right now, thinks, but I won't give him my word. So I'm asking you, dear colleagues, and don't mind that this is some sort of agitation or illegal action. You have good acquaintances, colleagues from those factions who are now absent from the Supreme Council for various reasons, negotiate with them, no one will lead them into a coalition, but they must carry out their civic and professional duty to participate in the meetings of the Supreme Council, and perhaps to express other thoughts that will better reflect in the population the assessment of the current situation, and they will enable them to bring peace, confidence in Parliament and other institutions of power, including the President. What a representative of the women's section of our corps has done here once again convinces us that we should move in this way. We need to compromise, but this compromise may be based exclusively on the Constitution and nothing more, not on any conjecture or interpretation outside the legal field. So I'm announcing. I'm calling the next meeting. What? I don't understand. Ah, the Vershin. Well, it's clear that the information from Odessa will be. Yes or no? Please. I would only ask you not to make any suggestions, and I will not be able to make all of them and the decision that has already been made here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u40	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues. We were now women, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the President of Ukraine. I'm really glad that's what this is all about right now. So that's how we saw, from all sides, yes, there's a real chance of understanding with all of us, because I asked the President directly: In principle, I would like to understand because I came to the hall with another political power. And when you, Victor Andreevich, thank God, our President of Ukraine, when you found understanding in this country, you proposed. put to the podium Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic as the prime minister of Ukraine, as I should have voted as soon as I pressed the “yes” button. Therefore, we have asked all women, from the face of all women, to tell you, the men of Ukraine, very much, there is hope that there will be understanding. We think it's warm. The warm heart of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister will melt and come to normal common sense, and then the opportunity to work civilly for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m1.u41	Well, thank you for the optimistic conclusion of your message. Let us hope that common sense comes to pass. In the meantime, I am adjourning the parliamentary session. Tomorrow at ten o'clock is the morning meeting.
