ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, other participants in the meeting, distinguished radio audiences, TV sets! May 23rd today, Wednesday. We're starting a plenary session. Before that, I ask the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:34]] A total of 257 national deputies were registered. The morning session is open. A couple of announcements first. First, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry into force of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kazinuk Alexandr Rostislavovic, into the membership of the Party of the Regions. And on the basis of his personal statement, I report his membership in the Coalition of National Unity of the Deputies — the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Fifth Call. [[Applause]] There is a proposal to send greetings to our colleague, Deputy Burjak Alexander Vasilovich, on the occasion of his birthday today, to wish him success, health, and a better return to the session hall and to work in accordance with the Rules. And also to congratulate Shishkina Zha Leonidivna, who is also on today’s birthday. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] In line with the Supreme Council decree we adopted in early April, we now have time for brief statements, speeches, proposals on the situation in society, in Parliament, in the state and in the legislative process. Please register with the factions who want to speak first. In an individual order, please. Dry, please, from the faction of the regions. Stoyan? Stoyan's talking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u2	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Statement of the MP factions of the Party of the Regions. Dear voters! The main political position of the Party of the Regions was and remains a real work for all Ukrainian citizens. We are not interested in preserving and deepening what we have created, but in the opposition to the political crisis. Viktor Yanukovich’s government’s economic growth rate allows for the time being to withstand the pressures of the crisis. However, it cannot last that long. Until it is too late, until the crisis has affected the growth of citizens' incomes, which is planned by the current Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and whose first phase has already been implemented by all responsible politicians, it is necessary to reach agreement and put an end to the opposition. The main conditions after which the Party of Regions will consider the possibility of its participation in the early elections are: Elections based on the necessary changes to the Constitution of Ukraine and a series of laws; strict enforcement of legislation at all stages of the electoral process by all its participants; Transparency of the electoral process, equal access to electoral rights for all citizens of the country, regardless of their place of residence. The public refusal of all parties and blocks to use administrative resources in elections and attempts to falsify their results is very important. Because of the fact that “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Block Timoshenko can apply the administrative resources available to them in the electoral campaign, even the representatives of their camp now publicly claim. Such statements need to be taken seriously until all participants sign a document rejecting attempts to distort the results of national will. Finally, we repeat: the next election will take place only after the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on this issue. Ukraine is urged to do so by the European Community. Unfortunately, in response to our appeal, we hear only populism and political crackdown from the opposition, especially its agents of influence working in the President's environment. These provocateurs have unleashed real fighting against the lawfully elected parliament. And since the war is wartime, the opposition grossly disregards the laws and threatens to undermine the basis of the Ukrainian statehood. Among the main front lines on which opposition leads to the attack on democracy in Ukraine is the judicial system: from local courts to the Constitutional Court. The pressure on the judges of the chief officers of the President’s Office has become massive. In an effort to bring about the dissolution of the Constitutional Court, the President's Secretariat does not press directly against its judges. This has already led to the forced establishment of the head of the Constitutional Court of Dombrovsky. The judges of the Constitutional Court are pressured by the President's quota to apply for resignation. The pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court is also exerted through the Office of the President’s Under-Secretariat, the Office of the President, and the Office of the Attorney General. Reports of court - owned property checks try to intimidate and induce them to refuse to perform their duties. The President's advisors have even coerced him into accusing the Kiev District Court of the right of the Constitutional Court to pass any decision. The ban on the Constitutional Court to prosecute is a direct violation of the law, a very dangerous destruction of the foundations of our state, which should be stopped immediately. The parliamentary faction of the Party of Regions calls on the President's leadership to abandon the political playgrounds, the pressure on the courts, harsh and prejudiced claims to the judges of the Constitutional Court. At the conclusion of the statement, I would like to remind you of the position expressed yesterday by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic in addressing his fellow countrymen. We must do everything we can to get Ukraine out of the parliamentary elections more strongly. If this is not possible, if elections weaken Ukraine, make people’s lives worse, do we need to think carefully about whether the state needs such elections? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u3	Thank you. The word is given by Catherine Seminalek instead of Matthew from the Communist faction, followed by a representative of the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u4	I would like to express the position of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine on the events that are taking place in our country following the crisis that the President of Ukraine personally organized, along with the opposition that has taken the side of the opposition and is fighting the people of Ukraine, against the Ukrainian law, against the Ukrainian Constitution. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine declares that the working group has been established and used, that it has been restored to the wider realm to win time, pressure on society, that people no longer believe in anything, nor in the Constitution, nor in the law, nor in the truth, nor in justice. The Working Group is a way of exerting pressure on the Constitutional Court and therefore the President of Ukraine on the means of working the working group, the work, the non-employment, the participation in it, is doing everything possible to increase pressure on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. From such a political and legal decision, there are practical attempts to move to institutional and technological solutions. This cannot be the case in the rule of law, a democratic State, which is enshrined mainly in the law of our State, the Constitution of Ukraine. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine emphasizes once again that elections should, if necessary, be held only on the basis of law. The President does not have a mechanism for implementing his order. It's just for the scarecrow to be, here's my order, we'll do it. Indeed, the President of Ukraine has absolutely no mechanisms to implement his decree. Therefore, of course, let everyone who listens to us know that there is no electoral decree, and there can be no decision without a decision of the Constitutional Court and no decision can be taken. Therefore, we believe and support this view in the working group, the amendment of the Constitution, as well as the self-decommissioning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the peremptory mandate, I wish to say that this issue is not new. It was those who were sitting in the hall when the new Constitution, the existing Constitution, was adopted that we were in favour of an imperative mandate. Those who are absent today and who are yelling that it is impossible to live without it, unfortunately, were absolutely against it. We believe that the Ukrainian Electoral Act needs to be drafted because we are facing the issue of holding early elections for the first time. We believe that we must exclude all possible technologies for the falsification of elections. And if the President and the opposition thinks that people don't understand that they need an election right away, because it's impossible to live without it, people understand that even the season has been chosen to be a possibility of falsification. What, I don't understand this is the President of Ukraine? Is it the opposition in Ukraine or not? Never in our country's life since the dawn of the summer has such activities been carried out, they have indeed been very active work, it is winter, autumn and so forth. In the summer, everyone thinks about how to live the winter, how to live next year. So, of course, no election date can be discussed. If the opposition wants to go to the elections on 24 June, on 27 May go, dear ones, on a free voyage, go without us, say that you are legal negelists, saying that you are observing the Constitution, the law and the people of Ukraine. And finally, over the course of 16 years, we all wanted to create a beautiful face for Ukraine in Europe, unfortunately, we got a face from which everyone today shivers because those who talk about it are doing everything they can to make Ukraine a scarecrow in Europe and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u5	The socialist faction's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! The political crisis in Ukraine is at a dead end. Under such conditions, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich's negotiations with Viktor Yushchenko cannot lead to the exit from the opposition that has taken place. I would like to refer to the members of the faction of the Party of the Regions to the leadership of this political power. As you continue separate negotiations with Yushchenk, you will inadvertently play against your political opponents. What can be done to negotiate with a person who still considers his decrees to be valid, who essentially destroyed the judicial system in Ukraine? Showing that Yushchenko is a capable party, regardless of the dozens of violations of legislation and common sense that he is demonstrating, the Party of Regions will pour water onto the mill of the President's Secretariat. Now Victor Janukovic is a much more influential political figure than Victor Yushchenko. Because Victor Yushchenko is the first person to put illegal pressure on the courts and judges into official practice by the Ukrainian authorities, introduced the category of responsibilities of the heads of the courts of general jurisdiction for the first time, issued decrees on the resignation of the judges of the Constitutional Court, declared the lawless for the first time, on that basis, the early elections to the Ukrainian Parliament. The result of this provocative policy aimed at the collapse of the Ukrainian state is obvious. In protest against such a policy Yushchenka, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Hayduk and his first deputy, Khoroshkovsky, resigned. These authoritative politicians refused to work with political adventurers who are stamping illegal decrees with packs today. Who are we going to negotiate with now? With the Mukativsky Group? His leader, whose political career is built on the smuggling of vodka and stolen cars? Or with the Cologne, the president's family's main sponsor. The goal of the early elections for Yushchenk is to eliminate the coalition of national unity. The National Unity Coalition for the support of practically the entire Supreme Council has adopted the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which has allowed for the talk of Viktor Yanukovic as a leader who does not yield to Yashchenkov for influence, and in many ways has higher powers. Janukovic, without the support of the coalition, is simply a leader of one of the parliamentary parties, with whom it is much easier to fight for the sake of power allocation for his own benefit. If now, when a major part of the power belongs to a coalition of national unity, Yashchenko allows such outright illegal acts, what will they be like after the collapse of the coalition? Having arranged one-person elections with Yuschenk, Yanukovic will become a hostage of the presidential environment, showing that political relevance is higher than the law and the Constitution. Viktor Fedorovich is trapped under such circumstances, followed by Yushchenko and Balog to demonstrate political raiding on an even larger scale. I'd like to address Viktor Fedorovich personally. I have no doubt that your negotiations with Yushchenk are pursuing the goal of weakening the degree of resistance in society to find a way out of the crisis. But let's remember that just two weeks ago, Victor Fedorovich, and the entire coalition of national unity, a responsible member of the President's Secretariat worldwide, accused all the world's television channels and information agencies of preparing the order killings of Ukrainian politicians without any basis. And in the newspaper of the nearest counselor and friend Yushchenka, there were articles describing the details of how Yanukovic beats his closest colleagues. On the national television channel “1+1”, which is managed by a de facto deputy from “Our Ukraine”, lies and dirt about the work of the National Unity Coalition and the Prime Minister are distributed daily and on a planned basis. And all these provocations are being set up by Yashchenka's team right now. What awaits the Party of Regions further if it comes to the "Muslim Group"? Let's face it. Early parliamentary elections are permissible, but in a democratic state there should be equal rules of play for all, and only the fulfilment of the requirements of the Constitution and the law can form the basis for political compromise. The Socialist Party of Ukraine states that if the Prime Minister agrees with Yushchenko on the date of the early elections without prior distinction between the illegal decrees on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u7	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u8	The Socialist Party of Ukraine states that if the Prime Minister agrees with Yushchenko on the date of the early elections without prior distinction between the illegal decrees on the resignation of judges and without the Constitutional Court ruling on the constitutionality of the decree on the dissolution of Parliament, the ICC will not support such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Bondarchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. One sad political lady, speaking yesterday in the “Point of View” program on the UT-1 channel, beat herself in the chest or elsewhere and claimed that the deputies of our faction did not get the salary and everyone who was counted on either the cards or the savings books was all paid back. We won't get a penny in this sales to the Supreme Council,' she stressed. I have before me the help provided by the Chief Accountant of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the funds issued to the Ukrainian National Deputies for the payment of their work and for the execution of the parliamentary powers as of 18.00 May 22 for the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not come back. Savenko's chief accountant, signature. Let me make it clear that on this day, 55 members of the BUT faction, who are interested in their surnames, were paid a salary. At the same time, the lady stressed that the broadcast of meetings of the Supreme Council, including cable television, had cost 104 million dollars in recent months. It's for them to wash their brains, and she kept doing it. How so? Allow me to deny the palatological liars. The 2007 cost of the Supreme Council is a little over 2.5 million dollars. The broadcast of the "Council" channel costs about 100,000 dollars, for April – 114 thousand, because we worked more in the session mode. 104 million in recent months, i.e. April-May and 2.5 per year, a million dollars, is said to be two big differences in Odessa. Then I quote the same lady: Since April 2, the MPs have issued nearly 300 million apartments for themselves, which cost almost that much. On April 2, the MPs received no apartment. The latter was received in accordance with the valid legislation of 23.03 this year by a deputy from “Our Ukraine” by Sklar. And if you're interested in radio and television, I'm going to say that in this call, the apartment was given six people's deputies from BUT, their names: Budgerak, Zabzaluk, Mestipán, Rybakov, Kamchatny, Skubenko No apartment received from the criminal Supreme Council has been returned. With regard to housing compensation. In April they received three national deputies, but all payments were made in 2006. By the way, in the past year, he received compensation from a fellow member of Kiselov, mentioned by this lady, strictly in accordance with the law and almost twice the size of another member of her own BUT faction. And to the end. I still have Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u11	Yeah, yeah. I beg your pardon, Malinowski gave him another word. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u12	As we know. And to the end. As we know, this lady has graduated from university and she thinks she's a certified economist. So you should know the weight of each piece and be responsible for using numeral - based examples. Because when you listen to her improvisations that use numbers, you start to wonder whether she graduated from university or maybe got an education at some market. This is the only way to explain the arbitrary juggling of numbers. Obviously, it expects no one to test and question but to swallow as bait. But the period of charm, fame, God, is passing, and our fellow countrymen are increasingly asking: “So what happens with the 7.5 billion dollars written off by this lady from the budget debts of the EESU Corporation, once they work for the state, for the economy, for the social sphere, or for the social sphere. Once again, we were able to see the double morals of some politicians. Indeed, this is the case when straw is observed in a stranger’s eye and the log is not seen in its own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u13	Thank you. Tarasov. Malinovsky, please, instead of Tarasov. He's got Bogchuk behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u14	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Dear colleagues, voters! Last week, a coalition council meeting was held in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare changes to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding local self - government bodies. The meeting was attended by district officials, district councils, heads of district - based cities, or officials who are primarily interested in local self - government authorities, and local communities have as much authority as possible. I represent the Church. I know the problems of local communities, as they say, from the inside. What a surprise it was for me when only one of the ten leaders invited by the Church were present. I ask myself: is there no problem in the city of Cherkasy, in the city of Złotonoshi, in the city of Umani, in the area of housing and utilities, in the financing of social programs? Is medical care at an appropriate level? Do these leaders not want the community that entrusted them with leadership to be not the master of their land? No, not interested. Then what is it? It's simple. The head of the Church District Administration, Mr. Chevko, has forbidden to participate in the discussion of problems that affect virtually every electorate of the region. You see, he thinks the Supreme Council doesn't exist. Mr. Brain, you're very wrong. I can give you another example of such a democracy. The day before Taras Shevchenk's burial in Caneva at Kobzar's grave, educational people have traditionally summarized the conclusion of the All-Ukrainian Competition “Let’s Unite, My Brothers!” Talanous young people came to welcome the Chief of the Supreme Council, Alexander Frost. It is impossible to convey the hatred with which Mr. Cherevac’s directive on ignoring the authority of this action was circulated. The bottom line for me is that I'm not interested in today's struggles for democracy, the President's supporters and his environment, nor in the organization of the full life of the electorate, nor in the problem of creative youth, nor in the problem of culture. They're interested in something else, first of all, how to please Viktor Andrievich. Yesterday, on the day of Shevchenka’s memory, life was paralyzed in Cherchishka. I haven't seen such blasphemy around the idea of a nation's merger by the President in a long time. With the singing, the hoorugs, the flags of BUT and our Ukraine, well, it was just terrible. My father-in-law, I think I'm pleased. What about the people who organized all of this for the sake of one person? That's not the point. New fighters for the people are interested in something very different – how to make national income their own, how to own it. An example. Changes to the budget adopted by the Supreme Council in May this year, aimed at social problems, as if Yushchenko hadn't noticed. Moreover, it states that under the patronage of the President in the area of Mr. Baloga in Kiev, a criminal vertical was first created, which includes representatives of the prosecutor's office, in fact, Delilsky, the leaders of the RDA, who once again emphasize, under the patronage of the head of the President's Secretariat, are committing crimes provided for in article 364, 366 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. If everything were as they say, they would have started cracking through the courts, replacing the head of the Kyiv Melnik Master Court with a humble one. They said they had agreed to complete democracy. Victor Andryovich, in your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u16	Victor Andryovich, your team had a wonderful slogan, "Not by word, but by deed." Your slogan today and your team: “Intrigue, Demagogy, Corruption”, consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u17	Thank you. Richchuk. Savocin Hennaday Anatoliyovich instead of Bogchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u18	National Deputy of Ukraine Savosin faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has entrusted me with the following. The President's constitutional decrees on the permanent cessation of powers of the Supreme Council and the early parliamentary elections, the destructive actions of opposition to parties that form part of the coalition of national unity, have artificially created tensions in society, have a negative impact on the economy of the state, prosperity, and the improvement of social standards of all kinds of populations. On 4 May 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on Changes to the 2007 State Budget, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. These changes significantly increase the standard of living, social standards of people, especially pensioners, disabled persons, teachers, health workers, military personnel, and other types of population. Yes, the doctor's salary will increase from 840 to 1140, the teacher's salary will increase from 786 to 1083, and the average pension will increase by 80. All of this would have been possible if the President of Ukraine had signed the Supreme Council of Ukraine Act on Changes to the State Budget in 2007. Sadly, this does not happen. The president of Ukraine is engrossed in political games that he has become involved in because of his environment and aggressive opposition, for which the worst is better. He does not want to sign this law of Ukraine, referring to the illegality of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He's got nothing to do with people's lives. He's got nothing to do with his well-being. The main thing for our guarantor is to carry out the demands of the opposition, which has ignored the will of the electorate for one reason: to get into the power of the chairs, which they have once disgraced in accordance with the President's decrees. For the sake of their personal ambitions, they are ready for anything, even for the division of the country. What cynicism. On the one hand, they're sneezing, on the other hand, they're comfortable with the state, because political adventurers need a food environment in the form of economic declines, rising unemployment, social dissatisfaction. People need to know what lies behind the outer garments of peacemakers. The Socialist Party faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in pain at the fate of Ukrainian citizens, requires the President of Ukraine to sign the Ukraine Act on Changes to the State Budget 2007 since 4 May 2007. Enough of the Renaissance conflict that borders the coup d'état. Mr. President, let's actually think about people. Remember, too, your slogans “and by word and deed” and “10 steps you take to meet people”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is Suhi Jaroslav Mikhailovich instead of Stoyan. He gave him the word. Then the Bulba will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I will read for the first time in my political career on paper, because that is not what I said. On March 26, elections took place. The elections were democratic. National and international observers spoke of this. Listen carefully. The elections acknowledged all parties and party blocks whose representatives were present in this Parliament. Didn't I get you right? Is the election real? They're real. They put one dot, they form a coalition. My dear friends, my soul was on the side of the orange coalition, it's natural. I knew this coalition was very complicated, with great problems. I knew it wasn't destroyed by the region, by the ambitions of some inside the faction. I have a question for all of you: a second coalition formed according to constitutional requirements? Yes. And some of the hot heads, dear friends, let's imagine we're running an out-of-the-box election. The first question to yourself and to all of you is, Do we get a different political outcome from those we have on March 26 or not? The answer is no. In front of me will be the same five heads of parties or blocks. I would like to emphasize separately: If there was still a legal field for such a decision, that could be done. But if this legal field were not available, then what we would have done -- the early elections -- would be out of the law, it would have been easily interpreted as an audit of the political results of the March 26 elections. It's no longer a democracy, it's a way to influence the outcome of the will through the tools of power, it's just a non-conomy. We must live in an out - of - law field; we must not live on emotion. I know that we live in such a time that no one will bring you into any coalition for a laundromat or money, only your heart has the right to accept and speak. Let us recognize that there is a political room as it is today, and there will be no one else. If we don't understand it, I'm convinced that to such political forces it will be the opposition of the entire nation, our entire nation. And I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the elected judges of the Constitutional Court in this room today. I am convinced that they will share the high rule of law mission in Ukraine, which is based on the constitutional institution. Thank you all. Period. (Applause) I said cheers. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, they continue, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, they go, I sincerely wish the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, to live with his mind, not to go after a small, smoldering, aggressive group of political leaders and psychopaths and to show the wisdom he showed on August 4, 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u21	Let him finish his thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u22	At 6 p.m., 18 minutes in this room at the 36th session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u23	Well, since the sound was going down there, I'd like to remind you that Jaroslav Mikhajlovich quoted a statement by the President of Ukraine in the session hall here on August 4. In 2006 If he did, I wanted to refer to Viktor Andriyovich, and it is clear that Jaroslav Mikhajlovich spoke. Please, Verni Dubov is performing instead of Bulba. This is the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u24	Ivan Verni Dubov, “Regions” faction. Dear friends, we recently celebrated the Great Day of Victory. It is indeed a great holiday, the purest, most honest, most dignified holiday in our beloved Ukraine and not only ours. That is why the programme of social support for disabled persons, veterans, is considered a priority by the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic. You remember, it's this year's one-time thing. One-time cash support for this holiday has been allocated to more than 3 million 200,000 veterans, and the amount of food and medicine paid to veterans is 2.5 times higher. More than 20 bracelets per month from 1 May will receive wartime participants and war invalids. The Great Homeland War has taught us many lessons and, in my view, the main one is that we cannot defeat a country whose people can unite, mobilize for a single great purpose. But we have to say that the President's Secretariat has also prepared its gifts for this holiday. A personal decree has been issued against the participant in the hostilities, Yvashchenko Vladimir Ivanović, judge of the Constitutional Court. It was at this festival that he was fired for breaking an oath, as it appears from the decree. What was the expression of this breach of oath? On this point, an anecdote was born in the Constitutional Court: he was a member of the Angolan War after a recent heart surgery while on sick leave, still being a responsible person, going to work. I say all of this about the morality of the President's administration. Dear friends, the subject that everyone is talking about today: the treatment of judges, the judicial problem in Ukraine, is indeed enormous. Today, at three o'clock in this regard, on the state of justice in Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings, and in detail we will condemn there. But today, I would like to say that, in a situation where the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and the leaders of the courts of general jurisdiction, we, therefore, MPs, remain silent that we have Bill 3517 to consider the actions of judges Campo, the Constitutional Court, Liloka, Steczuk and Shishkin to be a violation of the oath. I call on the leadership of Parliament to put the matter on the agenda and consider it. And the second. I appeal to the judiciary. Your Honor, this is the way you are treated in court, as much as you can bear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u26	Your judicial professional honor is denied, you see! Conferences of judges must be held immediately in all areas, and a meeting of judges must be prepared, at which, despite the fact that the President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, as an ostrich, is hiding his head, he must go away and discuss these issues! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for statements and other reports. Here is a specific proposal made by the newly speaking MP, and he proposes that the document, registration number 3517, be included in the agenda and considered by the judges of the Constitutional Court. I have this proposal, we can vote or we can vote on a consensus council, then we can vote on the inclusion of it in the order of the day next week, but on one condition that a profile committee, in accordance with the Constitutional Court Judges Act, on the Constitutional Court, will do all the procedural things that are provided for before this question. So let's put it in the order of the day next week, and let's say that we're essentially going to consider it after we've carefully complied with the requirements of legislation. I'm betting on this motion, registration number 3517, because there was this proposal by Deputy Verni Dubov, which is, by the way, justified. [[10:43:04]] For 251 This question is included in the next week’s consideration of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words about the proposals that have been made here and that need to be responded to. Well, first of all, you remember, in the '70s, in the early '70s, with Grigory Žhenov there was a great movie called "Resident Error" and "Resident Judgement," you remember. In our situation, this reminds me of the movie "The President's Error". As for the organization of early elections on the basis of its decrees, the clear thing is that he wants the purity to be the choice of citizens is that from faction to faction, people do not go to the faction, so that there is a close interaction between branches of power. Who doesn't want that? And we don't mind. He applied this method of influence to the situation, but it turns out that his advisers do not know how to read the Constitution. Well, that's what happens to us, sometimes it has higher education, without secondary education, so here's to those who have read the Constitution in that way. So we're going to assume that this is a mistake. It needs to be corrected. How, then, can this error be corrected? In fact, there are two logical and two legally valid options: either to amend the Constitution and then the Supreme Council has the right to decide on the term of office, and the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council, or the second option, which relates to the withdrawal of the Supreme Council, the formation of the powers of 151 deputies, and then the coming of the right to decide, most likely, the election. That's why we don't reject the first option, and we have proposals for changes to the Constitution. I hope we're going to look at it next week, because today the head of the profiling committee is going to suggest we don't have to look at it tomorrow, because there are many nuances that need to be agreed on within the faction, the coalition and so on, and not only. And it would be necessary for opposition representatives to participate in the discussion. What's gonna happen next week? But the only way to solve this legal issue is in this sessional room. Let them come in here, make statements, register them at the secretariat, check out the signatures in the HR department. We'll look into it. Then there's a legal basis, 151 deputies put their credentials together, and the Central Electoral Commission, when they meet with the wishes of these deputies, they cancel their lists, so to speak, and we're in the right field, where we have to decide something, obviously by way of elections. Then we'll get back to you. But please take this path. So there are two ways: either making changes to the Constitution that we're ready to go to, or 151 deputies make up their powers. And in this regard, we are also ready to help those who want to resolve matters in this way. Now. This is the nuance that applies, let's say, to correct the President's mistake. With regard to other matters, today, literally ten minutes ago, the Constitutional Court announced its decision, adopted on May 16 on the recognition of the unconstitutional articles of the Court of Justice Act, which stipulated that the President would appoint judges. He has no right to do that. [[Applause]] Such a decision has been made public, and we understand that another legal norm will now be applied in the appointment of judges to administrative positions. This is a matter of principle, because it was said by accident yesterday that the mass appointment of the new leaders of the judicial structures is foreshadowed by preparations for for forging elections, so the MPs were understood to be here. I don't think we should even be suspicious of using the judicial branch somehow in a political struggle. It is today that the hearing “On the state of justice in Ukraine” is scheduled, and if we all said that we have classical, just justice that fits the law, we did not ask that question. But it's not like that yet, unfortunately. And that's why we're inviting a lot of specialists, experts, lawyers working in the judicial system today, in science, deputies are, students are studying jurisprudence, we need to discuss what the case law should be, given that we're ready to consider next week's second reading of the Law on the Judiciary and the Law on the Status of Judges. So this question can't just be pushed forward, we have to exchange thoughts on this issue in the form of parliamentary hearings, and today at 15 o'clock they're going to be here. I would ask that all MPs be actively involved in this matter, because in my opinion, you can get answers to those questions that concern you, too, by considering the rules of this law. And yet another circumstance that we should have in mind. This is where Catherine Samuel, speaking, said that no one in the harvest was in the election; it was true. Well, true, there are some anomalies. But apparently people today are not as concerned about this anomaly as they are about what may be a very poor harvest. And today, we would have to focus on both the President and the government and the Parliament, if that's what it takes to find the opposition to the scourge that's coming upon Ukraine -- it's a huge drought. And we need to find a way to protect people in these conditions, because the information that was here yesterday from Mikolaiivsk, South and Central, and in these days, especially on the weekends, when the Chewchenkov days were celebrated there, the corresponding ones connected to the burial, for example, and I was in the central areas of Ukraine, and our colleagues were in the southern areas, a very serious problem is emerging. We need to prepare seriously for it in order to neutralize the possible negative effects. I'm actually completing the summation, discussion or participation in the national MPs' speeches, and we're thinking that we're going to be able to work effectively. The working group is working, looking for some compromise, but any compromise can become a legal norm once it's introduced and considered in the session room. So I invite, especially those responsible, I mean, responsible deputies from those two factions that are not present today, come into the hall, we start working, enough to scare people with the early elections without the legal basis. We're "for" term elections after they get a legitimate basis. Otherwise, there will be no elections, and I want to be honest with everyone, so that we don't set people up for unnecessary things. Now for the agenda. Four draft laws on State regulation of gambling activities are proposed. This is a project of Matthewnkov and others, Leapina, Pisarenka, Smitsuha, and they are first of all, I understand, with lotteries and not only with lotteries. So let's do it in the order that I have here, listen to the content of these projects, and make the right decision. The word has the national deputy of Ukraine, the author of the Matvienkov project Sergey Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u28	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, today we are indeed considering a set of laws, I think, which will not leave any Ukrainians indifferent, because to date this is one of the most sinister topics that affects not only the economic state of our State, but also the spiritual education of an adult generation and to some extent affects the lives of every family. You will have before you the draft Act on State regulation of the organization of gambling activities, registration number 2521. The main task of drafting and adopting the bill is the first legislative solution to economic activity in the organization of gambling. Establish clear rules in the field of the game business and ensure that a common legal field is established in economic activities in this area. Regrettably, this topic is one of the most unsettled and the processes that are taking place in this business are very difficult to regulate, and this is a burden that has arisen today in the legislative field and must be addressed in a mandatory manner. The draft Ukrainian Act is aimed at strengthening the game business and, consequently, at ensuring its transparency and control. And this is also, so to speak, one of the most important positions that are at the heart of all the bills under consideration, all four that are being put into the room. That is, the transparency of this business, and the system of monitoring it, the system of slots and playrooms is one of the sickest topics. According to the law, gambling activities in non-special premises would not be possible. Small gaming facilities will disappear, thus reducing social tensions in society. As a result, it will be impossible to manipulate the topics of banning and zoning the gaming business. To date, unfortunately, there is a system where a person is constantly tempted to go to a store and go to a pharmacy. I mean, one thing when a person clearly sets a goal -- he's going to play, he's got a wish, that's one moment. But when a person encounters machine guns at every step of the way, when a person faces these unorganized little game halls at every step of the way, it naturally causes a certain danger. The medium-sized business will have to unite and step out of the shadows and acquire a license. As a result, large financial transparent companies will operate in the market, which will value the licence and their reputation. Due to the strengthening of the medium-sized business, the number of large companies will increase, respectively, in the amount of tax contributions to the budget. The bill is the closest to the existing European model to date. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its opinion of 27.11, notes that the draft law can be adopted as a basis for consideration on first reading. I just want to focus on some things. I understand that the bill is not very simple, the bill is quite complicated. There's a lot of controversial rules. I'm talking about all four bills because we've been looking at the committee very carefully all four. There are rules, like the cost of a license. It's a very controversial thing to say, but I think it's a second reading. There is a standard of space to be allocated to the gaming halls. There are assets that must be permanently located. That's what we're going to say, the law. But we understand one thing that this bill must be drafted and taken as a basis. And all these things that we're talking about, they can be more specifically developed for second reading. The most important task of this bill is the State protection mechanism, which is the most important moment. Second, it is a human protection mechanism to protect it from the arbitrary nature that exists to this day. Protect the growing generation from the temptations that are in place today. I don't want to waste time, I just want to propose an option that doesn't matter which of the bills is going to be supported today, maybe we'll decide to finalize them, so to speak, in the complex and create a single bill. It is only important that, in the end, it is time to open our eyes to the existing problem, to say that this problem exists, to say that there are hundreds of thousands of twisted fates today that have been twisted into believing lives, that today tens of millions of bracelets are spinning in shadow traffic, that it is time to put an end to the existing problem and put an end to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u29	Please. You, you could have talked more. Please, I'm addressing the deputies. I'm asking for your attention! May I have your attention, please? Vasily Andriyovich, listen carefully. I'm asking who's using cell phones, that's how they're connected, and there's some kind of hint going for, basically, this law, or that, if you try to keep your voice down, you're not allowing an opinion to be given to the reporter. Colleagues! Please! Who has a question for Sergey Anatolyovich? Please sign up. Mikhail Vasilovich! Samilik asks a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u30	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Sergei Anatolyovich, well these questions that we're considering today are with a very large beard, many of them really, really. They're against, well, they contradict each other sometimes, we have a complete misunderstanding of the subject that we're going to be discussing today between the deputies of these bills and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And don't you think it would be better for you to create a working group from both the first question and the second question that we're going to discuss and that the working group, or just to give a commission to the committee, to your profile committee, to give a task so that you can bring the already harmonized bill to the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because people have, you know, such a point of view that we have nothing more to do but these issues. I think it would be better if you thought about going out and looking at the first and second questions of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u31	Thank you. Katerina Semenovna, I want to say one thing. First. This is not such a harmless question, as it seems at first glance, and the issue that concerns not only today, let us say, the State from an economic, but also moral point of view. This is a very important problem that needs to be answered today, and today we need to find a way out of the situation. I agree with your suggestion that very many normal proposals were in all the bills. Each of the sponsors of this bill, which I think was one of the main tasks. The first is to take this business out of the shadows, create normal rules of play and protect our citizen. It is from the moral damage that can be inflicted. So I'm pretty sure that's the same option. Most important of all, what we have launched today is the fight against this scourge, what is called today, which unfortunately is beginning to attack our State and, as a result, our population, and the worst of all, that is our youth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u32	Yes, Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u33	Sergei Anatoliyovich, absolutely, firstly, is supported by the idea that order should be made in that queen. But I cannot help but take advantage of the experience now gained. The All-Ukrainian Public Organisation “Citizen Control” is currently conducting a very active action in the Herson region to combat this phenomenon. And that's what we're dealing with. The schoolboy goes home from school and is stopped at every stop by a one - handed bandit. From here on out, crime and so on. But I'm supporting Katherine Seminevna in the very fact that I think we should create a working group right now. Because what we've been facing, it's just that the size of this business is not going to fight this immorality. You have to go outside the cities, use Moscow experience, Russian experience, and use these gaming facilities outside the cities. Anyone who wants to play, go there, play. The young will not get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u34	Thank you, we have considered these proposals in detail on the committee and, in general, the ideology of the bill itself. We've encountered two things you're talking about. First. The task we have set ourselves is to create conditions under which a person, but let us say so, was not tempted, as they say. If he, what I've already said, goes to certain slot machines or he has that goal, he has to go there. There can't be a man going to the market, to a store, to a school, and he's constantly being picked up, as you say, by one-armed thugs. This is the first moment. Second moment. We have set up several stages, what you're talking about, the growth of this business, in the future, could be to take it out of the city for a distance, or maybe to set up three or four centres in Russia, as in many countries of the world, to create, like this, play centres. But in order to solve this problem, we need to approach it in stages. I fully agree with the Committee to address this issue and make concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u35	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u36	Sergei Anatolyevich, I completely agree with you. Of course, the question is not harmless. And I think here in the session room you're going to have all your associates and none of your opponents, including the people who listen to us. In addition to the lack of budget, as you have already said, except for the tension, among other things, it is a terrible thing, it is a tragedy for our society, it is a tragedy for young people, it is destruction, it is death. But in order for this law to work, how come we don't get this effect when we get some monopoly on gambling, how do you look at that proposal? Sure. We need to take the complex. If in the complex, for example, a bill is adopted by 3,491 government officials with the absorption of all the most economically sound and morally necessary situations and all the bills you are talking about today. That is, to base 3,491 government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u37	Thank you. Hence, it has already been said that the issue is very difficult both from a legal point of view and from an organizational point of view. The governing bill included two moments. The moment of the lottery and the moment of the game business. These are slightly different areas of activity. Here's what we're going to do next. A set of lottery bills. It's also a very serious subject, a very problematic issue, but today, we're going to be talking about, we're just going to be physically unable to resolve one law two of these serious issues. That's why I think the lottery and lottery business should be a separate law in the game business. And we have to divorce them, let's say, absolutely different, let's say that in directions. Question in another: What must be contained there, how, what a mechanism. That is all, so to speak, the subject of our further work, but I still believe that these should be two separate bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u38	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u39	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I would like to say that I have carefully studied all four of the bills that are coming into our consideration. And I think today, one that meets the most needs of the modern world is your bill to regulate the organization of gambling activities. But I'd like to ask that question somewhere. With regard to the responsibility for the violations that we often have in gambling, we are in the organization of these activities. Because what's proposed in one of the bills to impose a fine of 1,700 to 3,400, I think it's a very bad idea. Because the profits given by the game business, I think it's counted in millions. So it might be easier for him to pay 1,700 fines or pay millions on license, for other patents, and so on. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u40	Thank you. We have also considered very substantively the regulation and punishment procedure, the amount of punishment, the amount of fines, the amount of fines. And you have come to the same conclusion on the Committee that, as you say, we will say so by such minor penalties, we will not be able to resolve this problem to this day. We have a huge number of examples where slot machines are installed as a test without licenses, installed, operated, spoken under certain roofs, as it is now fashionable to say. However, these penalties, which, so to speak, are proposed today, will not solve this problem. I stress once again, firstly, the cost of the license we define as the base bet, it must be that the person who bought the license is fully responsible for where the business is located, how it controls it, how it complies with the rules, so to speak, its conduct, the business, and how it is responsible for the fact that it does the job. So these are fines like a thousand bracelets, two thousand bracelets, three thousand bracelets, believe me, this is a funny conversation, this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u41	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, there is no doubt that the adoption of the bill that you have introduced in particular, and the consideration of all the bills that have been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will really contribute to the creation of more civilized ones, I would say, the conditions of convergence in Ukraine of the activities related to the organization of gambling, and a clearer regulation of the licensing arrangements for particular activities of such games will allow for the improvement of, I think, and more effective control by the State over this difficult sphere. But considering the scientific expertise, would you not consider it necessary, Sergey Anatolyevich, to send all the bills for re-reading and then the committee to draft a new bill that would.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u43	Thank you, Valentin Grigoryevich. I have already said in part that we would not object if the committee were to consider everything, because there is a common sense in the basis of each bill, something that is different from other bills. But what I want to say is, most importantly, the most positive thing about this whole case is that we started to consider this issue, and that's the main thing. To this day, the working capital that has been going around in this business, the shadowy working tools, I just don't want to call these numbers from the rostrum to say that they're not confirmed, they're going to say that these are the numbers that we got from those sources. It's colossal. Believe me, this is a very serious amount of money that's going around the budget today that's turning past the State Treasury, that's all. It's the same thing. And the second. I'll do it again, but this again. I'm not tired of saying that this is the most important thing that causes moral damage and destruction to our society. That's what we need to stop. Put an end to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We are prepared, as we have agreed, to allow all the authors of the bill to report on this, and I am prepared to propose the word Läpinij Xenij Mikhailnni, the author of the bill. She did. For some reason she's not here right now. National MP Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich. Please report your project. And Smithu Grigory Eudemiovich. He's going to the rostrum. Please. And you're the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, I hope that my colleagues are familiar with the project that we are considering today, because the really important problem is that we are looking at 4 proposals today, and these proposals are essentially similar in some way, and in some ways they are different. I'm not going to take up your time, but I'm going to give you some statistics. Today, in Ukraine, there are about 820 entities licensed for gaming. Today in Ukraine more than 26 points of gaming business, including roulette, “one-handed bandits” as they are called and so on. Today, every day, almost every day, statistics say 150 people are in the game business hall. What does that mean, and what does it do? A lot of the questions that we've been looking at on the committee, because our committee is very professional in this field of activity. And everyone says that this area of activity needs to be regulated. My position on the committee and my position on the Supreme Council today is clearly one word: the state and we must ban this business, ban it as one that gives neither the health of the nation nor the education nor the profit, and it creates only a negative crime around this business. No one speaks statistics. I'm going to tell you on unofficial data that today in the game business in Ukraine, statistics say about one billion 300,000 dollars in turnover and unofficially, more than five billion dollars in shadow capital in this business. Compare it with "Creebrisstal" and compare it with other areas of our production – and you will see that this is a negative phenomenon in our society. How can we fight? There's a proposition: let's do-- let's do 100 meters from the school doesn't have the right to have a game business-- let's do a thousand meters, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it for the others, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it so it's 100 meters or a thousand meters, let's do it, let's do it. It won't do anything. Twenty-six thousand points, and they keep growing like mushrooms. Where there were Allies kiosks yesterday, there are vending machines there today. Where there were drugstores yesterday, today's vending machines. Where there were vegetable shops yesterday, there are vending machines today. And we keep growing like this. The bill I'm proposing, I started to form it last year. Unfortunately, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I find that for six months my bill has not been submitted to the hall, has not entered the hall, and I find it unfair to me as the author. I mean, Russia has gone on such a radical path. When I passed the bill, Russia at the same time -- so it fell together, so I didn't plagiarism -- they created four zones for all of Russia, where you can put the game business. I'm in the bill, if you've met him, I'm offering no more than four zones. But I will insist in this room, after we have repeatedly discussed this issue on the committee, that this area be, if it is necessary in our country, not more than one. Let's figure out where it should be, but I strongly insist on it and ask you all who don't have a positive attitude, so to speak, to support this area to be alone, it has to be located and in this area the state can control in the future and regulate all of these activities. Need, necessity, I don't know, I'd like someone to ask me a question: why is there a need in this business in our country? What does it provide for a person who is a State? What are we filling out? Who counted how much we're losing? And who counted those families that had a very, very hard result? Who counts it in our country? So I understand, I understand some of the interests of some groups that work in this business, I understand that we have to create jobs, but I don't understand why the state should help. In Soviet times, you remember, I know that the game business was banned. They were called, so-called, players, carnivores, catalyses, they were called in different ways, yes, they were in the shadows. And I'm told by my opponents on our committee, if we don't, this business will go dark. In what shade? Thus, there are enough organs in the state to deal with that shadow. So I would love to answer your questions, which I hope you will ask, but I would like to invite you to vote for Project 3036, as in the first reading, taking into account these comments that will be made here, and then we'll work together here on the committee and we'll create a good law. But one thing I strongly ask you to support, in the communities of the gaming business in our country there should be no one who doesn't tell me anything, I will insist and I will ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u46	Question to the reporter. Please sign in. Baldirev. Ten minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u47	Dear Grigory Evdokovic, tell me that you believe that this business needs to be completely banned or that you need to stop at some political option and make one single zone, like in the United States, or as in the Russian Federation right now, and concentrate it all outside of large cities, away from megapolises. Which option do you think is most acceptable? Because, well, we have to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u48	Thank you. I want to repeat that I don't think we're going to solve the issue with you if we increase the subjects or scale them up, this business, or the demands on their rigid regulation in the settlements, we're going to be tougher. We're not going to solve this. I'm sure that as a state that should control this business and regulate it and influence it, it can only do so if it is in a particular territory that will be determined by way of discussion in the Cabinet of Ministers or the Supreme Council. I'm sure it's just the introduction of a zone location where clear investment requirements, infrastructure development, all the security we need, and so on, will allow the state to control, influence and regulate these issues. All other issues lead to corruption, and the increasing demands on a loved one give rise only to corruption on the ground. You don't make any decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u49	Mush.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u50	Dear Gregory Omelanovic! I would like to thank you very much for this bill, and I will be very much in favour of it, because I represent the Ternopil area and the area that should be in agriculture, an area that was in the near past occupied one of the leading agricultural positions that is now fascinated by the gaming business. And so, on behalf of their countrymen, they'll just say thank you. I hope that your bill will be supported in this room because the bill is really about the future of our nation, about the future of our children, and what is the most expensive thing in our country? They're kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u51	Thank you for asking, for your support. I just want to take a minute to make up for the fact that my position is not radical, that I'm just insisting on my drafting of my bill. In fact, in other bills there are good, reasonable provisions of the bill and, indeed, they could be combined as to second readings by working on a committee. So I'm turning your attention to editorialism?? My bill depends on a few moments. This is relative to the fact that they should not be in populated areas. It's about the fact that it can't connect this law must be separate, lottery, so to speak, it's a separate law, game business is a separate law. This is my position on this, too. I'm here with Sergei Anatolyovich. I agree that these two bills should be. With regard to the view of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is a different point of view. As far as editorialism is concerned, the question is that if such a necessity in our country is already present, we should have this, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u52	Let me finish this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u53	If I have such a need, then let's create such conditions, let's create such a zone, if you want to call it Las Vegas-Ukraine, if there's no other word, like Las Vegas-Ukraine, right? And we're going to go to specific targets, not including the general budget, to the general budget, because they're going to dissolve there. It's expensive to send me to medicine and high school. Then it'll be clear from the population. If we have such players who want to go to play money, the state will only thank us, because then we will control the funds and direct them to specific goals where the end of the money is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u54	So you suggest on Snake Island you place it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u55	Including.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u56	Garden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u57	Mikola Sadowa. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. What about the question of game business and parenting? So these are extremely difficult problems that need to be addressed. And I'm probably going to express a point of view of Ukrainian education about a certain incompatibility of these concepts, because what does the game business raise? If he cultivates decency, honesty, respect for the elderly, intelligent competition, that is one thing, and, if it is not, another. In this regard, I will have a few such questions for you. First. As far as Ukrainian traditions are concerned, parenting is also meant for the game business. Is there a contradiction in the bill or not? Let's move on. Whether the materials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office are taken into account when these bills are being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. If we're talking about the game business like this, we're talking about the shadow economy, 90 percent of this game business -- in the shadows, what morals could be more for the young generation. What Kind of Morality Could There Be? Morality is not here. There's nothing else in the black business. So, of course, when I proposed this radical norm of the bill, I thought for the first time about our morality, our children. And you know, apart from the loss of health, broken families, criminal, so to speak, character, shadow economy, corruption, this sphere no longer gives the state anything, I'm sure. With regard to the second question of statistics. Of course, statistics for today are on the committee when we discuss four bills, and we, apart from four bills, have made other amendments, we have never received from anyone, nor have we received statistics for today. Neither criminal nor financial nor quantitative, nor even knowing exactly how many points we have in Ukraine of the game business, because it migrates.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u59	Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u60	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Party of Regions. I fully agree with your proposal that this business should be banned. Indeed, apart from the moral damage that is being done, especially to the young generation, there are still basic factors when a schoolboy gives money to his parents for breakfast to those “one-handed”(?) bandits, that's right. But I would like to ask you how you feel about the question of banning lottery business, casino. Why? I used to try to figure out what lottery tickets were. We have a mass of names, the National Lottery of Ukraine, and when you look at them, there are private structures that do great things. I can only assume and guess what the mechanisms are. How do you feel if you ask the question like this, it's the lottery and the casino. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u61	Thank you. I reaffirm and repeat that I am in favour of having two of these laws: lottery business and game business. The other one. The slot machines are so-called and casinos are one and the same game business and it has to be carried out in the same way outside the population. That's two. As for the lottery and the state, I say that if we need additional funds from people who voluntarily want to play the national lottery, these funds should be controlled and managed by only the state. If we're already in the bill, where it says it's a state monopoly, and at the same time, the other rules, more faithfully, the articles refer to what is passed on to one operator for twenty years who wins the tender, of course, it's not a state monopoly, it's not a state control. [[Bill of the Cabinet of Ministers]] If this is profitability, why can't the state create a state-owned enterprise that is appropriate to set up staff requirements and pay them well, but at the same time, really hold a state monopoly. Why the State takes the monopoly and then voluntarily transmits it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u62	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u63	You may not have seen a store in Ukraine with “Drugs” or a house with “Democracy” written on it, but it does exist and thrive. And the ban on the game business will lead to the same chase into the shadows and even worse problems. And this proposal you're making about the state monopoly on the game business without the right to transfer to private persons, this could be the way to transparency in this business, to introduce high taxes and really get these gaming establishments out of the way. This is the way, but believing that we can ban the game business in Ukraine means being a very great idealist.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Maybe I'm an idealist, maybe an idealist, but I don't know how to shadow a casino or a game center. Where they now occupied facilities that once worked for the state, for society, for health, and so on. You can certainly hide ten percent of that, if we eliminate it, you can hide it. And for what, please tell the local authorities, and please the law enforcement authorities, that they can't see where the vending machines are, then if this rule is implemented. I think the state can handle this problem. But then there will be no schoolchildren who go out of school and have lunch or tea, and their parents give them money, and they go into the machine and lose the hope that this person's consciousness, you know, is essentially gambling. If we want to have, we in Ukraine have first place in tuberculosis, first place in AIDS, first place in alcoholism, soon we will have both, and so on. Let's do first place in the game business and everything will be fine in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u65	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u67	Have a seat. Well, you've clearly noticed that Hanna Mikolayevna was asking this question, not from the point of view of such an extreme situation, but from the point of view of it, but from the point of view of it, to the point of being within reasonable limits, because we don't think it's healthy and drinking vodka that's not good for health, except for certain exceptions. Clearly, then, there are issues that need to be regulated by law. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich from the committee, what do you say about that. What's the committee gonna say? Stately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u68	I won't say anything good. Dear colleagues, as a line. Unfortunately, the society that we are building with you today is using all the negative and inferior qualities of the person present today, both drug abuse and alcoholism, and the game business, and so on. Therefore, if we ask the question today, not from the committee, but from me, if we ask today what we can do, let's say, with the monopoly on the game business, it is necessary to change the social order, to return to the Soviet Union, which has successfully solved these problems, that is. Today, we have to assume that the five billion dollars that are coming back from 20 per cent of the population today, according to professional estimates, are attractive and nothing will stop them, will only increase the number of bribes and so on and so forth. Therefore, the Committee, in considering this issue, was based on the objective reality in which we live. The Committee has considered all the issues carefully, and I am also in favour of issuing, prohibiting and so forth. But today we must assume that we do not control this element, so we need to resolve this matter by law. And I join what the colleague of Matvienkov has said that I am glad that we have started this process today. In the light of the consideration of the four bills, the Industrial Policy Committee decided unanimously to recommend that the bill 2521 be considered as a basic one. And take into account the proposals that are in the Bills and the People's Deputies of Smith, Pisarenko and Lapina. But given the discussion, given the exchange of views. There is a proposal to re-read all the bills and to assign them to the Committee on Industrial Policy and Regulatory Policy, and to submit an agreed bill. To finalize it and submit an agreed bill. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u69	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up. Let's do the factions first. If there's a need. Now, individually, please. Yes. We're taking ten minutes, aren't we? Danieline, please, three minutes. Well, who knows more about it, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u70	Nikolai Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, we are discussing with you a number of bills which, to some extent, provide for the resolution of the processes related to the game business. What is happening to date, and especially in the capital of our Ukraine in the city of Kiev, when the area of domestic services, when the area of pharmaceuticals of some kind, is gradually being phased out for shops by institutions with slot machines. And this boom happens about four years ago. The same was true in Moscow, when fires from one of these facilities were drawn in every street in the eyes. Now the same thing is happening in the city of Kiev. And if we really understand, and if we want to fence people with conventionals, and, above all, children from day-to-days in such playgrounds, we need to go with you to a sufficient number of radical measures. And if today is not to hinder the development of this business, it is probably necessary to take a position to create such megapolices, where people can go and work and enjoy solving their own problems by playing these slot machines. Such a world practice, however, must be approached. If we don't take these steps to date, in about a year, the whole area of institutions, enterprises, because it's done: a very narrow circle of people buys these licenses, and then for all of these licenses for all the leased enterprises, private enterprises rent them, and there are slot machines, and there's no store, there's no pharmacy, there's nothing left. My view, therefore, is that today, there are four bills that need to be combined, chosen from there with the most right decision, and still make a decision to do all of this outside the megapolises, where people could travel, where they could handle and meet their needs if they wanted to. And in a way that would stimulate this business by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u71	Sulkowski. From the place, please, Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u72	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, to my profound belief that there is no chance in Parliament today to support any of the four draft laws. Although the question has sorely been raised today in Ukraine. And this concerns the most parents who have children, who today really are in the way of the future. And it's clear that it's, on the one hand, it's kind of necessary, but it's already in such a region, chaos, swamp, that it's practically no good, but it's a reverse, that's more harmful than it is to Ukraine and our future. So today, after listening to two authors working in Parliament from the coalition, you know that one and the other authors worked and worked, they reported to Parliament today. And one and the other would like his project to go to Parliament today. But there is no way, as we can see. And so in order not to take up a lot of time, I would like to encourage not only my faction of the Party of Regions, but all the socialist and communist factions of the coalition, that not only is it necessary today not to miss these projects and not to give up the right to future life in Ukraine. And I think we need to send them out for work today and bring them out one more time for first reading in Parliament. But seriously, not only do we have to entrust the Supreme Council committee to study these four projects and work on them, but I think we need to get the public more involved, talk about them, and actually go out on some single draft law that is consistent, that really regulates all the sides of this difficult situation, these games. And only then will we be able to adopt a consolidated project in parliament that will benefit Ukraine and our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u73	Gardens. Mikola Ilichi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u74	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I am deeply grateful to socialist Matvienkov and other colleagues who have brought up such an important problem as the problem: What can we do about the state’s gaming business? At first glance, it seems to be a secondary issue, but that is certainly not the case. The Ukrainians are very concerned about the area of social life in terms of moral values education and especially in young people, students, students, because this is the future of our nation. Let's look at the very ideology of the gaming business. Is that the kind of business that raises children? What's the matter? No, it's not. Honesty? No, it's not. Respect for the elders? No, it's not. Gaining Knowledge as a Means of Further Life? No, of course not. A healthy rivalry? Neither did I. Humanism? Neither did I. I can continue with other aspects of parenting, but we can see no, no, and no everywhere. I think it's necessary to approach this problem in a more national way, from the point of view of the state's development strategy. It is business that has other goals, especially income, and not parenting. So there are other strategic goals in the state. In the business, the game is about other goals. So there's a contradiction that needs to be eliminated, which is to put under strict public control the problem of developing the game business and the rigid state regulation of the rules of development of this business. The country should legally protect young people and the productive part of the population from the destruction of Ukrainian national traditions, from the development of banditry. Yesterday we passed the Humanization Act concerning the Criminal Code and, on the one hand, we act within the framework of the development of Europe and in the other. On the other hand, what we're developing is not in the same direction, and in this case, what we have is these bills, and they're being put into the agenda -- that's pretty good. It is certainly not possible or necessary to forbid it. It is necessary that I fully support the point that such a game business needs to be put outside of the population, to establish a brutal responsibility for any violation of the rules of the game in this direction, to restrict youth's access to fornication and to open the way for young people to sports courses, to sports and to other positive ones. So socialists to create such a working group, to bring all these bills together, to involve the government and the public and to make a good law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u75	Thank you. Bondarchuk. From where? Urbanski will speak from place. Igor Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u76	PSU, Urbansky. The Georgians say: “ This means: “In the word ‘no’ the mother does not cry.” I understand that it's very easy to ban everything, to ban everything, and it's not going to be a problem. Yeah, if we can ban the game business, we won't have the casino. But there will be tars. We all remember that it's like this and we'll understand that somewhere between 5 and 6 billion will be in the shadows. Not in the shadows, not at all. The country, the budget will not see the relevant taxes. It's obvious and it's an obvious injury. I'm not going to talk about the moral side of the game business, it's completely obvious to everyone. And that's more of an emotion right now. Let us look at this from the professional perspective. If we take it so sharply and ban the game business, there will be chaos, which, I don't know, is the kind of butlerism and gangsterry that was in the early twentieth century in the United States of America, maybe it will happen again here, I don't know. But in any case, we are strongly destabilizing certain segments of the population. Which I think we should do and look closely. Give up this regulatory policy in the field of gambling, give it to the State and give it to the Government. Let professionals do this. This time. Secondly, it is imperative to ensure that this business is strictly licensed and, in the end, has increased as a result. After that, then, the major players in this market will think about all the other issues. Believe me, the growing business is becoming more and more moral. In that regard, what I would like to propose. Don't send laws for further processing. The law of the colleague of Matvienkov, who is actually considering gambling business and does not affect lottery issues, support and vote in first reading, is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u77	Tetjana Ivanovna, deputy minister of finance, wants to express her opinion, the Ministry’s view on this matter. Please. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please do not disturb her, or she thinks that you are only listening to her.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to draw your attention to today's adoption of legislation on regulation of activities. What is this activity? It's about players, whether they're lotto players, whether they're lottery players, whether they're slot machines, or in some other direction, based on random prizes, they're paying off some kind of money. Then they wait on the basis of chance. Who gets the prize and gets the prize. So this is one type of activity, and we insist that as an activity is regulated by one law, this is the first. Second, how can we regulate this activity? Indeed, with regard to gaming and slot machines, casinos, roulettes, they should be regulated in such a way that each participant gets a government license and then the state controls his activity. And in order for control to be extended not only to activities related to the organization of specific casinos, specific casinos, roulettes, or vending machines, but also to control how these machines reach the state — whether they have come to our country legally or illegally. Because today we have a very large amount of information about the fact that there's a particular industry in the manufacturing of these machines and the transportation of such machines illegally to Ukraine, that's the first. Second, a person’s gambling may vary because gambling addiction, gambling addiction, is now compared to alcohol addiction. So let's say, in Britain, in Finland and in Bulgaria, it's all regulated by one species, one legislation, and this law establishes different forms of regulation on the part of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u79	We've discussed this issue, and I think once we get to the legislative regulation of this sphere of social life, we'll find the right situations of the law. Here we need to pay attention to whether or not. That includes the kind of game activity we're seeing. For example, television. You take a few channels of television at night and do it. It's the same in the morning. We are gradually turning from raising the people of Ukraine into a large lochtron. Everyone thinks that you can win instead of earning money instead of working and getting a return on that job. You might even look at the advertising business the same way. You've seen somewhere to advertise the sale of shovels, there, axes, pollens, or whatever, let's just give us either a cigarette or we'll go to sea and we'll burn or something like that. No one calls for work. That's not necessary, because you can make a fortune by winning at the expense of others, and that's what I understand. This must also be regulated by law. The other side of the case, and here we have to agree, probably with many of the speakers, that we're not going to solve the problem, that's true. Because no one says that smoking is beneficial or beneficial, but they do smoke and drink, and unfortunately they do not share properly with the state, with society through the budget. So we have to look for optimal options, and here were the proposals on how to move out, special areas of creation, cities and control, and so on. See what the newspaper Facts says today: “In Kiev, more than a third of 15,000 slot machines work without a patent. ” That's the obvious work you're doing in the shadows, that's what that means. With more, this is not what the journalist says on the basis of statistics, because if there were no statistics like that, it would be clear that this third would have to be brought to criminal responsibility. There are many other examples that we can find, so we need to regulate the need for legislation. The proposals here are in four projects, two of which are not considered for the fault of the authors who did not want to participate in the discussion, and two were discussed. And there's also two options, one is to assign a profile committee to work on it, to get them back to work on all the bills so they can go out with one bill, not four. And another proposal is to take one, already ready, Matvienkov's project and take into account the advanced or advanced proposals in other projects to use it as a basis for preparing for the second reading. We can vote both. But before that, I'd like to consider the results of the vote that it might actually be. Is that why you have, from a faction, an idea like that? Mikhailo Vasilovich, please Chechetov. Then take the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u80	Thank you, Alexander. I have such a compromise proposal, until I vote, to look at three more, and then to entrust the committee of seven to make one, that will be a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u81	I ask you, the fastest move forward, it's a movement of parts, a gradual movement, because if we want to go straight to the Kingdom of Heaven, we can literally end up there, we need to think about how better to solve the issue. In my view, the authors of the project, by dividing this sphere, made sense. Note that even at a time when business was banned in the state of the lottery. The other thing is that it was state clean or “Sportlot” and so on and so forth, and you don't have to give up. Everyone wants to win all of a sudden, and that's the same thing. Speak up, and then speak to Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u82	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! I have one objection to you. I would like to point out that you've asked two questions or you're proposing two questions after the vote, I insist and I suggest that you put my bill in place, and that you accept it in the first reading. Why? I'm saying that. Because I repeat that this bill has long been in the Supreme Council, it has a concrete, radical approach to solving this problem. I would like to ask my colleagues to support this bill, and I would like to ask my colleagues for a second reading, bringing together other proposals and making one whole project. It can be done, it's appropriate, and it has to be done. And I don't agree with those points of view that clustering, or let's regulate most of the stricter control of this issue, will allow the state to destroy this disgraceful phenomenon for our nation as a game of these points. So I would ask you to put my bill separately and show all of our people who are in charge of keeping the game business in populated areas and incapacitated.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u83	Please don't convince me, because this is what the Rules provide, and I will vote on your proposals. Sergey Anatolyevich, do you insist on saying no? You give Matthew's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u84	Thank you. Matvienko's faction of the Socialist Party. I believe that the most important thing in this regard is not authorship, and no one is there to say whose names will be the most important thing. I would therefore suggest such an option, and it would be appropriate if a committee of all four bills were to make it one-on-one and leave the agreed option. I'm definitely against and I'm talking about putting lottery business here, lottery games, because it's an object of completely different visions, it's different things. And we settle the lottery games with the following bill, but by dividing these two from me, I would like to vote anyway, instruct the committee to finalize the four bills in one and go out with one agreed option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u85	I agree with you, but in view of the need to vote under the Rules and the author insists on voting on individual proposals, I will put it separately, and then we will go back to that proposal. Thus, the bill, reported by Anatoly Matviyenkov, 2521, is first voted. I'm putting this bill to the vote on the ground. [[11:55:18]] For-49 The Lapland bill 2521-1 is based on voting. [[11:55:44]] For two. It doesn't work either. Pisarenko Valerija Volodymyrovich's draft vote is 2521-2. [[11:56:05]] For two. Not supported either. Smith's Bill, Grigori Eudomimovich. [[11:56:30.]] For-19 It's not accepted either. Matthew’s proposal, which was expressed in both the report and the presentations. Re-reading, assigning the committee to prepare for re-first reading one of the four projects that take into account all the rational proposals of the four projects. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:57:04]] For-55 Two deputies, two factions insist on taking a break for half an hour or giving them a chance. Please, who's it going to be? Peter Stepanovich Zibenko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u86	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u87	I'll be with you in a minute. I ask, after that, we continue to work, please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u88	Today, in these holy May days, mankind is expressing its deep respect, respect, and gratitude to the rescuers of mankind from Hitler’s fascism in connection with the anniversary of the Great Victory of Fascism, and the coalition of national unity is in a hurry to repay its eternal debt, the supporters of the President, its beloved friends demonstrate quite different priorities. Yesterday, the Ukrainian National Deputy, First Secretary of the Crimean Paradise Company, Leonid Ivanovich Grac, made a statement regarding the burial of a cave-based Crimean nationalist. There's another piece of information coming in today. In the city of Poltava, President Yushchenk's governor in the area of Mr. Osadchi without a decision, without any agreement, a memorial stone has been installed to honor Simon Petlura. It's not only illegal, it's done at night, as is usually done by black, unfair gangs. An attempt is now being made to sanctify this crime. By their criminal, presumptuous actions, "Our Ukraine" and her honorary head, President Yushchenko, have confirmed in turn that they are spiritual descendants of Hitler's fascists. Representatives of the Union of Soviet Officers, the Company of Ukraine are trying to counter this sacrament, this vandalism of modern times, but they have been overthrown by OMON, the militia, the other forces, and they are being beaten. I demand on behalf of the faction, I demand from the Attorney General's Office that the Ministry of Internal Affairs stop this festivities and stop the beating of people in Poltava today, because what is happening is really bordering on the coup d'état. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u89	Thank you. I have an offer to complete the consideration of the issues raised today, to continue the work without interruption, and then to hold a meeting, more faithfully, to hold the hearing at 15 hours. Is there no objection? I put to the vote this proposal to conclude the consideration of the issues raised there, in fact, one question, and then to stop the morning session. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:00:17]] For 229 Decision taken. The draft Law on State Regulation of Release Activities and Lottery and Money Games is under consideration. Samuelka Katharina Semenovna reports. If you can, shorten it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u90	It's all right, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'll be brief. This is a colleague, a Ukrainian national deputy from the faction of the Regions speaking about six months of not reviewing the bill, so I want to tell you, a bill that I'm reporting now has not been considered for seven years, and in seven years, we could, indeed, in this, if we were to consider this issue, we could work out, we could lay down the principles of state regulation that are necessary today and we could, in fact, act in this direction already. I'd like to say that we've received a lot of comments about our Ukrainian law from the Science and Experimental Authority. At the same time, the General Office supports the need for legislative regulation, order and distribution of Ukrainian lottery tickets and, in particular, the importance of this activity in filling Ukraine’s national budget, the need to protect citizens from abuse and fraud, and to prevent the laundering of dirty money in this area. At the same time, we were given a series of comments. But what I would like to say is that, in fact, the state has to deal specifically with these issues, because they are now going on such a free voyage. I would like to give examples only when we meet with delegations from many countries, including, for example, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and they tell us that they have a 70 percent chance of financing the sports sector of their countries. And of course, if we were to go over these drafts earlier, and lead it, well, to perfection, probably a lot of work needs to be done, and our whole lives need to be improved, then maybe we've already had a pretty substantial approach to the government budget. The drafters, me and Larynn, propose that a lottery in Ukraine be held on the basis of a state monopoly. Maybe it doesn't make much sense either. For the introduction of the lottery on the basis of volunteerism, social orientation, publicity, the equality of conditions in the lottery, protection of information, and the previous payment of the bet. These are such basic principles, and we believe that the holding of lottery numbers in Ukraine is prohibited. This is just so that we can use this particular direction to actually improve Ukraine's government budget. The drafters believe that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine should introduce a single register of state lotteries introduced in Ukraine and a list of the information reflected in Ukraine's single lottery register and this should be confirmed, of course, by the Ministry of Finance. We believe that the state lottery should be implemented by the state. And above all, the funds must be provided and the costs of coming to the State budget of Ukraine. That's really our offer. Perhaps someone really feels that it would not be necessary to be a monopoly. But still, we have so many national, Ukrainian, state lottery numbers. Therefore, in our bill, we propose to ban the use of the term “State lottery”, “national lottery”, “Ukraine lottery” except for those that are being implemented by our state. And, of course, the organizer of the national lottery is the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, which conducts a competition for the selection of state lottery operators, and is conducted by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. And the Ministry of Finance is also considering all applications for operator status and so forth. I am, indeed, a colleague who, in fact, presented another bill to us today, has already made some critical remarks. In fact, they have the right to life and I think that this could all be taken into account in the second reading, or after I make the proposal. Of course, this is also an operator's deprival status. The disqualification of the status of the state lottery operator is carried out by a decision of the Master Court on the order of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and this is absolutely correct, because the organizer is the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. I think the observation they made, they can agree with some of them, maybe, really, we can just work on them, but we still need state regulation, and we need a state lottery. At the same time, given that the bill had been pending for seven years, and that probably didn't work, but at the same time there were several other bills, I would have suggested that we create a working group, and on the basis of all the bills, we would have been able to draft a single bill with you. That's my opinion, I'd like my fellow Ukrainian national deputies to listen to her. I've shrunk, Alexander Alexandrovich, so cut the question to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u91	Thank you. Let's cut it down. Please don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u92	Don't ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u93	Any questions? No, there is. Bogchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u94	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Catherine Semenovna, I support what we need to adopt and regulate this activity. We've been somewhere in the previous discussion of the gambling bill, listening to how much traffic is going in the shadow that's open, which is possible, and so on. Do you have any data on how many lottery tickets are being distributed today? How much does the state budget get? How long after the adoption of the law will local budgets and government budgets be able to receive? Because when you're familiar with European practice on this issue, there's even incentives, because most lotteries are meant to increase budget revenue. If there is such an experience, there is such information, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u95	Thank you. I want to tell you that as in the lottery business, yes. lottery business, I emphasize this, as in the previous question, is really going to say that we don't have clear data. The fact that Ukraine’s state budget receives funds is indeed true. This is calculated by a million, tens, even hundreds of millions, that's from a previous study of these issues. But what I'd like to say is that lottery business also works mostly exclusively, well, let's not talk in the shadows, but it works, of course, not in the public interest. Why it was necessary for us to introduce state regulations to strengthen the role of the state in the lottery business. And that's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, that's not what we agreed. It's very simple. I asked, who has the question? Raised his hand by one Bogchuk. One Bogchuk raised his hand, and I gave him the opportunity. Sign up. Please, five minutes. Kings. I don't see the King. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u97	May I have the people's delegate, Smithuh?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u98	Stupid microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u99	Katerina Semenovna, please tell me how do you feel about what this bill foresees as a lottery, a state lottery, and another article provides for a legal person, an open shareholder, a share of state ownership in a fixed capital fund of at least 51 percent, and this right is granted for 20 years? How does this correspond to the state monopoly and private equity?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u100	You must have disobeyed. When I spoke, I said that when you presented your bill, you had already expressed your point of view. Please consider, indeed, your comments from this point. Please. But still, in my opinion, the state's role, the state's regulation should be in the state. Today it swims as it swims. It's also by licensing, it's by other means. They are provided for in other articles of the law that you may not have read, but this is indeed foretold.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u101	The garden of Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u102	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. The socialists fully share the view that state regulation is necessary under such an economic activity, including distribution and lottery playing. And the coming of the funds, including the coming of the funds, and the coming of the state. And to the local budgets. I have this question in mind. There are two procedures here: the lottery case and the money winnings. So these two branches, they're regulated in the laws clearly, are they not clear? That's one question. And the second question is, do you think it's necessary in these bills that we should eventually unify and make one bill, to make a calculation of a certain, to the extreme extent at boarding schools for orphans, to make it mandatory to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Well, anyway, we did it. We tried to make it settled. Is that perfect or not? Of course not. And how many people are going to ask questions and, of course, each of them will have their own perspective, and so I would like to stress once again that we are ready to learn all of your comments and take into account this bill. As far as taxation is concerned. You know, I used to be in South Africa, and they say black people are in power, and mining diamonds and gold are in white people. But there's 40 percent of all of this going to the government budget. We also have to settle this with you, but it's already in a bill that deals with taxation. I don't think it's us individually that should do it. It may be another tax, we shouldn't specify for the poor there, and so on, social or whatever tax it will be, it's another matter, but in these laws we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u104	Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u105	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Party of Regions. Dear Catherine Semenovna, I wanted to point out that it had not finally been seven years since our Parliament had come to terms with the problem of public speaking, which was the problem of gambling. This underlines the high professional level of our Parliament. In fact, I would like to support your proposal that all the bills be collected and made normal. My colleague Sivkovic and I submitted a draft gambling law in Ukraine in the second assembly in 2003. And he was sent to work out. I think our proposals should also enter into a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u106	Yeah, but my bill, my respectable colleague, does not concern gambling, we still have to share it with you, whoever you want, doesn't exist, so we still have to split where the lottery is and where the gambling is. But I understand that colleague Sivkovic has been passing this bill, and I know the attitude of colleague Sivkovic and of my bill as not very positive. But at the same time, I think you're absolutely right that we need to finish these bills, or else we're just closing our eyes on the vacchanal that's going on here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u107	Samuel’s colleague is not quite right. Parliament has reviewed and considered these bills on several occasions every call. And the previous consideration today showed how we treat them. So you don't have to be critical that we don't. To criticize what we view but not accept. That's what's wrong. Please, Pacheek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u108	Please pass on the word to Daych.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u109	Please, Daych. I'd give it to him anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u110	Catherine Semenovna, I never understood why the state lottery, not the state's operators. You didn't say.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u111	But the State issues the license, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. If the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine considers it necessary, Boris Davdovic, to establish a completely state vertical, let us work out this bill. But licensing is limited to public authorities, including the Ministry of Finance, which is clearly and clearly set out in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u112	Yes, Catherine Seminal, and the students play the lottery?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u113	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u114	So more of that law of yours is serving as the head of the committee. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Melniczuk is ill. Please, Bill 3491 of the Cabinet of Ministers is represented by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Jefimenko Tetjan Ivanovna. Please. Matthew's getting ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I want to draw attention to the contrast between the government bill and everyone that has been discussed in this room today. We have tried to combine this activity as a type of activity that has the same characteristics. However, these signs are that the essence of this activity is that players spend their money, then by chance wait for the prize and then receive the prize, according to the rules governing this business. Because as an activity, it is the same either for machines or for casinos or for roulette or for lottery. So the first thing that we insist on is that, as a kind of activity, it's controlled by the state and governed by a single bill, that's the principle of government position, that's the first. Second, we establish such a law, whether we propose to establish a law that has the sole order of testing the players of the gaming business, whether it's a gaming business or a roulette or a casino or a lottery. Including the reasons for the tests, the deadlines, the results, and so on. Why so much was happening in this room today. Do you think this business is in the shadows? Because there are no financial sanctions for players today. In general, there are no financial sanctions for violations of Ukraine’s licensing law, including the licensing of these activities. There is no government authority that controls gambling. For example, today the Ministry of Finance, as a licensing authority, has no right to carry out checks on businesses that organize gambling without licences. So we're creating working groups, we're engaging taxpayers in these working groups, and we're trying to find a way out of this situation. Today, there are no restrictions on the facilities, casinos, bookcases, and equipment. This leads to the installation of slot machines in docks, palaces, shops, cafes, and so forth. So in our bill, we suggested that there be clear restrictions on the placement of casinos, casinos, and other activities, including all that involved lottery activity. No game equipment requirements are set today. This leads to the sale of lotteries on terminals with no fiscal memory and not only lottery, but also the gaming business as a whole, it is now on gaming machines, where there is also no fiscal memory. Therefore, we insist that everything related to this activity as an activity should have a fiscal memory. And so if you don't have a fiscal memory, that's why you're going to win, and I'm going to win, and I'm going to pay the government taxes, that's for the owner or the vending machine, or the terminals that apply to lottery activity. Our draft law prohibits gambling through information and telecommunications networks, including the Internet, because of the inability to properly control it. The ban on virtual casinos has already been introduced in the economically developed nations of the world for the purpose of prevention. activities. Such a standard exists today in the United States, Canada, Italy, Japan. The government's project defines the only terminology in the field of gaming business. The government's project introduces a state monopoly on the activity, organization and conduct of the lottery by identifying the sole operator of the state lotteries. Along with this, we now have four lottery operators and they have a license until 2013. So in the draft law, we propose that these rights be guaranteed by active operators before the end of their license period, but that they comply with the rules of legislation on accounting for the State budget and on accounting for those programmes that will be determined by the government at the expense of the gaming business. What do we mean by programs? Today, it has been said that the activity, lottery activity and lottery proceeds are the source of such major national cultural projects as China’s construction or reconstruction of the Great Wall of China. We have a lot of examples, let's say in the U.S., where the profit from lottery activity on the norms set by the state goes to different cultural programs in support of education, in support of museums. So in our bill, in our draft law, we also foresee the possibility of implementing such programs and the possibility of establishing clear mechanisms for regulating the movement of financial flows associated with the collection of these funds. I also distributed it to the state and justly obtained the winners of the prizes they were given for this activity. That's why we think that the bill proposed by the government is the first to solve the most problematic issues of the gambling market in Ukraine, and that's what I've already explained to you today. And in terms of budget revenue, today we get to the budget in general from all kinds of gaming business about 650-700 million dollars a year and from lottery dollars the state gets only 52 million, 52-53 million today. And over the last three years, these revenues have been declining. And in terms of revenue from other types of gaming business, the main sources are license payments, this is payment for trading patents. But, indeed, today we can say that this activity is. There's a lot of this activity in the shadows, and that's why only the mechanisms that we're proposing in our draft bill today can, in our opinion, solve the issue of getting out of the shadows of these, these activities and ensuring, firstly, the rights of players, because there's no bill in which today, which has been discussed, there's no problem with the rights of players involved in a particular gambling game. [[I'd also like to pay attention to that, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies.]] In our project, we have a very serious protection of the rights of players so that they have a fair chance to win the winnings offered by the organizers on the one hand. On the other hand, the State has received all that is right for the budget and, on the other hand, for the maintenance of important national programs. And we think that these programs, first of all, should be related to Ukraine's participation in the Olympic Games, first of all. And the second is programs that have to do with supporting cultural and educational activities. Deputies! I'm asking you to support the government bill and support the standards that I've reported to you today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u116	Thank you, Auntie Ivanovna. I think it's very good that women report gambling. Maybe we'll take something. There's a question, please sign up. Five minutes. Rich guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u117	Vasil Bogchuku, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Tetiano Ivanovno, the Socialist Party has repeatedly stated that we really have questions of the game business, the lottery most unregulated in the state. Whether we have a clear control system somewhere and that we need to protect both the state and the players and the players and the winners and so on. But you have found that there are examples, good examples, of players in the game business, lottery business, of supporting cultural activities, educational activities in China, the United States, and so forth. But do we, in our Ukrainian experience, have such facts in our Ukrainian practice when our representatives, who make millions and billions of dollars on our participants, support education, culture, health care, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u118	According to our information, we studied the matter. A national lottery project like the MSL, its total annual volume, is about 200 million dollars, and the support of the National Olympic Committee is about two million dollars, and this data is about today. [[youth sports loto]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u119	Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u120	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist faction. Dear Tatiana Ivanovna, I have listened carefully to your report. 700 million from the gaming business, to what extent, I understand, is much better than 52 million from the lottery business. And I understand here the position of the Ministry today. But you tell me, please, what the Ministry is doing today to unite the two laws will lead to no law being passed. It's like you just don't want to settle this whole thing or you don't want to do it separately because you want to do something common that we don't have in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear Sergey Anatolievich, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the purpose of legislation in our view is to regulate either an area or an activity. Our position is therefore based on the fact that this activity has the same characteristics in fact. The same thing is that under any circumstances, participants have to just give money for tickets, whether it's a token or not, in cash. Then there must be some events based on coincidence, whether the roulette is spinning, whether we're shooting balloons on TV, whether anything else is going on and you win. Then there's the rule of winning this win and so on. As an activity, therefore, it must be addressed by the same approaches, but in the same approaches, of course, each of them must be addressed by the same methods.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u122	Sergey Anatolyevich, you will speak, please. Garden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u123	Mikola Sadowa, Socialist faction. Still, I am continuing the question raised by my fellow socialist, Matvienkov. The Ministry of Finance is working to unify these two bills and to view them as one, such two directions. So you get that, of course, for the Ministry of Finance in a convenient way, let's say that the school is placed in one class, then financially conveniently. Or this student group in the same faculty. In fact, financially, there are no rules of the game, and so forth. But let's think about it, these are two different kinds of activities. It's different, it's different. And when different types of activity are involved, there is a need for different rules of play for different types of activity. That's why I have such a question for you. Still, why do you think there's only one law? One. And the second. You said the lottery trend, and the trend is coming, in the games, in the looks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. First. Why one law, because the law provides for the regulation of one direct business organization based on the same principles. And in this law it's not one class, it's all articles of this law, it's not spread to different types of activity in gambling. We mean that there are different chapters in the law that, depending on how this activity goes, we suggested that different government regulators be used. What our approach is based on. It's based on the fact that we've studied the entire state experience. And today we can report that, let's say, in Finland, in Britain, in Bulgaria, gambling is regulated by a single law, and one government authority is overseeing the holding of both lottery and other gambling. For example, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u125	Let me finish. Talk to me. Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u126	Aah! Well, in Britain, for example, national lotterys, slot machines up to £8 are gambling, so-called light gambling. Heavy gambling is a casino game on slot machines and over 250 pounds of sterling. So it's a different approach depending on what a person's dependence on this game might be. And that's why the principles of organization, the principles of regulation in this area in different directions in a single law are prescribed in different ways. So as for the gaming business, the heavy business, if you use the terminology of British law, it's the only approach, if you go to, say, the mass lottery, then there's the only operator, and this only operator would have a state monopoly, there would be fifty-one percent would be, would belong to the state. And all profit from lottery activity would be controlled by the state and focused solely on supporting specific programs related to the development of Olympic sports and social, cultural, and educational programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u127	You can agree that these are different types of activities, the goal of one is to overwhelm them. Please, Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u128	Well, according to your logic, Mrs. Efimenco, a busy mode of transport is made by transport and rail. What difference does it make? There's a difference. For some reason they're governed by different laws. Therefore, the passing of the bill that you have presented as the most perfect, I will tell you, on the committee, it fell under industrial policy day after day before the committee's consideration. I have a question for you. More specifically, to date, the introduction of this bill, which has broken down virtually the coalition vote, what is the sole purpose of the Ministry of Finance? Or are you really interested in never having this process resolved? And do you have on your patents, your licenses, what's in the cloudy water that your officials have? Answer that question directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u129	Thank you. I do not agree with this indictment to the Ministry of Finance, a respected national MP, and would like to ask the Ministry of Finance not to allow such statements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry for the suddenness, but I'm asking you very much. That's a first. Second, I answer. Second, as far as the matter is concerned. With regard to heavy-duty rail transport, I gave examples. In developed economies, yes, gambling is regulated by a single law in Bulgaria. In Britain, gambling is regulated by a single law. And I won't do it again. Now, with regard to the goal, I can report that this law was drafted in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers' decree, which was adopted early in 2006, and in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers' work plan, we were given the task in August when we began our work. This is paragraph 85 of the outline of the draft draft law for 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u130	Thank you, Svetlana Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Indeed, today we are considering one of the sick issues and the committee at its meeting has carefully considered all the bills and has come to the conclusion that the bill requires a serious, well-collected assessment, a serious consecrated analysis. Nevertheless, we came to the same conclusion when we took into account all the findings of the scientific and export administration. That each bill had a significant share that could affect the regulation of the business and the Committee had adopted that view. To support the bill is a government bill, but to exclude from the bill that relates directly to the game business and to refer to the part that was to be adopted in the game business. By the way, the same conclusions also support the institution of legislation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Science and Export Office. They fully agreed on the issue. And to tell you the truth, to this day, I'm wondering why we've gone this way. I don't understand. We could and should have a little history here, so to speak, touch. We have repeatedly addressed both the Association and the Cabinet of Ministers in order to obtain a project, a government project, I stress, a law that governs the game business. And we've been withdrawing these bills for almost a year. We haven't considered these, we've been waiting for a government bill to come up. However, in a few weeks or so, there is a bill that mixed everyone: both the game business and the lottery. And now we're being told: let's take a comprehensive bill that's not clear what will resolve when our proposals were even this morning. I think the position was normal, agreed. Let's not get involved with someone's authorship, someone's laurel to hang, and so on. Let's take the bill as far as the game business is concerned, let's create a commission, one will be the bill. And a second bill that's going to be about the lottery. It makes sense. It's normal. I think it's normal. At that time, the State would have two regulatory mechanisms to regulate those actions. I get thoughts, bad thoughts, someone doesn't want to see a law that regulates this kind of business. I'm afraid I can't draw another conclusion. I therefore expressed the opinion of the Committee, and I also expressed my personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u132	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Please sign up for factions. Yes, now, who individually wants to participate? Yeah, well, let's give everyone a chance to make a statement. 14 minutes. Please, Silchenka, I understand. He's handing it over to Bogchuk. Prepare Chukmasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u133	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! It has been repeatedly found here that the game business, the lottery business, does not raise. And I would really like to say that he's not raising, there's no moral value, but. and children and young people are not to be allowed there today. And I support that increase in the age barrier until I'm 21. But since we have always forbidden sweet fruit, it is important to expect that our young ones, our children, with even greater gambling, will enter the gaming machines halls and not only, they will go there like flies to honey. Because of this, it is necessary to regulate legislation, to make certain barriers, and to make certain responsibilities for those involved. Addressing the question of lottery distribution, I think. You should assume that the principle is already defined and that the right to local lotteries’ income from local currency is defined in the budget list. local budgets, local lottery tickets. In this way, we can make it a priority that we need lottery settlement in Ukraine to develop a real mechanism for filling local budgets as well as the State Budget. Secondly, we have to assume that lottery activity cannot be dealt with with with by other so-called gambling, because the same nature of monetary relations has the opposite dimensions – organizational, psychological, individual factors of activity, so I firmly oppose trying to combine conditionally close, but in terms of Ukrainian reality, in principle far from the results of lottery participation and the results of gambling. Thirdly, we need to assume that lottery activity, as a popular and practical tool of fiscal policy from local to central government, should develop from the goal not just of earning profits, but of making a conscious profit for solving targeted, social programs and implementing social programs. The last thing I think is the most relevant. After hearing three bills, I believe that today we need to support Bill 3065, proposed by socialist Melniczuk, to make a number of changes and to take it as a basis. And everyone else must become an integral part of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Julia Kovalevski, please. Next Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u135	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, all of our previous discussion of this issue shows that the issue is extremely relevant and today in Ukraine there is a real need to address a whole range of problems related to the absence of an effective legal framework that systematically addresses the issue of the legislative regulation of lottery activity. I support the need for legislative regulation of the issuance and distribution of lotteries in Ukraine, taking into account, inter alia, the importance of this activity in filling Ukraine's state budget, the need to protect citizens from abuse and fraud, and to prevent the laundering of dirty money in this area. The need to ensure transparency in the operation of lottery activities by the State of active regulation and control mechanisms for the organisation and implementation of lottery tickets, to guarantee the proper protection of citizens' interests and rights, and to establish the responsibility of economic operators in organizing and conducting gambling are the main issues that I think need to be addressed at the legislative level. The bill 3491 proposed by the government, I believe, provides for the establishment of the legal principles of state regulation in the field of lotteries and other gambling in Ukraine. In particular, the bill proposes a substantial increase in government regulation of lottery activities in Ukraine through the introduction of a state monopoly for the release and conduct of lotteries. The principle of a state monopoly on the release and holding of lotteries is to prohibit all kinds of lotteries in Ukraine except those registered by the State in the order defined by this law and with the status of state lotteries. The bill proposes the establishment of rules for the conduct and control of lotteries by the State, the creation of a system for consumer rights protection and the control of game business subjects. There is a choice in the competition principles of the single operator of state lotteries, increased control of their activities, the establishment of financial position requirements for lottery operators, such as minimum capital requirements, payability, and so on. Another positive aspect is that the bill takes into account the high risks of using gambling facilities to carry out illegal transactions with money of questionable origin and the envisaged measures to prevent and combat the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. So I propose to support the bill tabled by the government and to accept it as a basis. Then work on the points and suggestions that have already been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Santa Claus. Prepare the Smiling. Who should I tell? From where? It's from the place of the Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u137	Mikola Sadowa, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Today, we have been able to draw the attention of Ukrainian society to moral problems, to the problems of this educational aspect. And that's very good, because the legal nihilism that sown, unfortunately, with the President's environment, it doesn't help to make morals in the state better and to have our society brought up in the spirit of Ukrainian traditions. So it is a good thing that we did attract the attention of our radio listeners today. The bill, introduced by the government, is clearly aimed at implementing the action plan "Ukraine – EU". And the positive thing is that there is an effort to adapt Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation. But, on the one hand, adaptation should be, and it's supposed to be a trend of good, and on the other hand, do the traditions, the trends in the development of those countries that the deputy has already told us about, particularly Finland, Bulgaria, Britain and Ukraine? Of course, they are different. And while they are different, approaches should be different, and we should certainly do so without rejecting the EU. Protecting our society, our Ukrainian traditions, our morality, our young people from the fornication that sown, unfortunately, from the kind of business that we talked about. So let's divide by these two points of view that we have. I fully agree with Matvienkov’s suggestions and the socialists will support Matthew’s point of view. A government bill is aimed at simplifying, particularly, such financial conditions and does not take social and moral aspects into account at all. I would ask you not to divide these two components, both the financial side, and the moral side in particular. Because you can save some money, but you lose incredibly in another, in the most valuable thing we have. So I think it's important for the government, the Minfin to work more closely with the committees. And so that we can still have only one bill, one point of view of a problem or another. I support Matvienkov's opinion, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u138	Thank you. Garbage Gregory, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u139	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I was once again forced to go to this rostrum, well, the result is you know the bill is not mine, nor was Matvienkova supported in that first reading, unfortunately. And that's why I'm going to invite my esteemed colleagues to come back to this question today, or tomorrow, because it's not settled today. This question is very relevant, this question does not allow us to delay, as deputies, the population is looking forward to resolving this issue. As for the bill that was presented to us by the Cabinet of Ministers, I've been communicating with Auntie Ivanovna on this issue. Because I wanted to prove my point in my bill, and for a very long time, we discussed the position and the government, and we were like MPs. I want to tell you that I'm dividing Matvienkov's point of view as to what two other objects are, and that the national lottery, or lottery regulation, is one area of activity, and the gaming business is another area of activity. There's another object, there's different conditions. There's a state monopoly, there's a private monopoly, and there's only a private monopoly. So I would ask Adam Ivanovich, maybe think about making up a question about how to save, how to enable him to continue working on this bill. I support Matvienkov's point of view that we need to go back to the first reading of the committee and the committee to be in a narrow circle, as we've been working over the past year, has some experience, has some points of view, enough perhaps to prepare one coherent project, and in this case there are two bills that will be passed as soon as possible for discussion at the Supreme Council. Because the position, the position taken today by the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm dividing it in the sense that it should be accepted, but I'm not dividing, I'm repeating, the approach that it should be one law that governs everything and in particular nothing. And I repeat that issues so relevant to our population, to our nation, for our generation that it cannot be delayed, cannot thus be rejected by the Supreme Council. We just don't have the right to get out of the Supreme Council and put it on hold for an indefinite period of time. So, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask you, of course, that there will be a vote now. If the House doesn't support the vote, I'd like you to ask the question of re-voting, to go back to that question about the possibility of drafting these bills. And there's no question in the authorship of this question. By the way, I want to tell these Ukrainian citizens and you fellow MPs, I've never, fortunately, had anything to do with the game business, I haven't played in the establishments of this, and including on. I'm proud of the bandits, and I hope my children won't be involved. So no one here can accuse me of lobbying some interests of a group, one company or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u140	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. Every one of you has stressed particular relevance, and once again, I say that each of the Supreme Council's conclusions has been returned to these bills over four years, and, unfortunately, our predecessors have never been able to adopt a law that regulates these problems, and they, as the seven bills have shown, are quite relevant. I'm putting the vote in order for the bill to come. There is a draft law on state regulation of the production and conduct of lottery and money games, registration number 2681, reported by Catherine Samuelk, please vote. [[12:54:47]] For-53 The decision is not taken. There is a bill on state regulation of production and lottery and money games. Registration number 3065, author of the Melnichuk Mikhailo Bill. [[12:55:21]] For-31 Not supported. The draft Cabinet of Ministers for State Lotteries and Other Gambling, registration number 3491, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:55:50]] For-149 So let's do this: let's vote in favour of the last bill with the task of assigning a profile committee to the second reading, we have to take into account the position of the bills that we've discussed before – Matthew, Smith, and so on. I repeat, your honor, or let's say right away that we don't want the law and we'll figure out how not to vote for it, or let's vote for the first reading of the Cabinet of Ministers proposal. I do not see much difference in the fact that two types of activity will be in the same law. The same law can be built out of two parts, one part to regulate gambling, the other part to regulate the lottery in the same part of the same law. Once again, however, I would like to stress the need to take into account the position of Samuel’s, Matthew, Smith, and others bills when working on their second reading. And on the second reading, no one will accept us, we'll be with you, if we see that the committee has failed to do so, then we will not accept this law. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your proposal makes sense. And we have heard this proposal so far, and this is an attempt to make it so that there is no law at all. Because the contradiction that exists today in the lottery business and in the gaming business is so great that they're just about second reading, if we can't take it as a base today on first reading, the basis for second reading we'll never write it out. And that's something everyone understands. Therefore, I have a counter motion not to overthrow these laws, to return to the vote on the first paragraph, to vote on the basis, to send all four bills to the committee for further work. The Committee goes out with one bill, we adopt a government bill for the second group and we poison it for further work. This is a normal approach, a normal solution to the issues that have been raised tomorrow. And on this issue was, by the way, the agreement of all three factions on the vote that I have just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u142	Yeah, now let's, there's a "signal vote" rule in the regulation, and I'm going to apply it now. Raise your hands, please, who wants such a law to be? So there's a law that regulates gambling and lottery. Like you all want to, why don't you vote? That's why you don't vote. I stress once again, the honourable authors of the first drafts, believe my experience, I cannot hear your logic that cannot be unified in one law. We can unite if we want to, and if we don’t want to, we can’t. Well, these are problems that can be written out, in general, the whole problem of this, you can write another dozen other types of activity into one law. So, yes, I'm putting up a motion for a vote. There were two suggestions, let's say it's your will. But I'm going to say it again, I've been for twelve years, or three calls here I've been sitting here, and not once has it been the same, and luckily, or luckily, it turned out that I was mostly in session when I had to deal with this law. Believe it or not, 250 seats or 450 seats are the same sama's decisions. We're going to the rostrum, we're going to tear up a shirt, we're going to settle it, and we're all going to "keep a hole in your pocket". I'm voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the first reading, bill number 3091 of the Cabinet of Ministers and to assign to the committee of profile on second reading, to take into account all the positions of those bills that we talked about gambling. Please vote, it's your will as you wish. [[13:00:49]] For-157. The decision is not taken. There was another suggestion to go back to voting on the first laws regarding regulation and gambling. If voted, then go back to it. Who is behind this proposal to go back to voting on bills that we unfortunately did not support, 2521 and so forth, please vote. [[13:01:33]] For-47 You know, I don't want to comment anymore. All drafts are off-limits. Let us turn to the issue of inclusion in the agenda and decision - making. We need to vote that bill number 3263 of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition should be included in the agenda and considered, this is a government bill. Please vote. [[1:02:17]] For 225 Who's in charge of coming back? [[13:02:42]] For 209 The factions, please. Read or see for yourself? Dear colleagues, once again, the bill of government. There's a coalition in the hall that created and is responsible for the government. The government is introducing, and all the rules of good tone and parliamentary democracy speak of one thing: The coalition is obliged to support government bills. If the coalition does not do so, parliamentary elections will be announced in the next year. This is what I'm telling you about parliamentary democracy, not Ukrainian democracy, but parliamentary democracy, because we do things differently in Ukraine. Who, in order to return to the vote on inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the bill, please vote. Vote! [[13:04:13]] For 228 The question is included. Yes, please report to Kostuyev Aleksyyyyyovich, prepare Eutuhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Our country has established legislative frameworks for State competition and business protection, which are largely harmonised by European Union legislation. However, there is a significant gap in this system, and legislation has not resolved the provision of State aid. This leads to public resources often being underutilized and individual enterprises receiving undue advantages over competitors. Therefore, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Protection of Economic Competition is very important. The bill establishes the legal and institutional framework for monitoring State aid. Its objective is to improve State control over such assistance to improve its effectiveness and minimize the negative impact on competition. The provisions of the bill include, inter alia, the definition of the very concept of State aid and the procedure for the follow-up of State control over its provision. The system of such control provides for the obligation of public authorities and local governments to publish preliminary reports on the provision of State aid. And those involved in the management of the beneficiaries are reports of its use. The procedure for publishing the report will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers. In cases where State aid is provided in violation of economic competition law, the Anti-Monopoly Committee considers the anti-competitive action of public authorities in the form of aid that prevents, removes, restricts or distorts competition. The review may result in a decision on the return of State aid actors to the budget. The law, if adopted, would not apply to social assistance provided to individuals and to assistance provided for individual purposes in accordance with the order and extent determined by the laws of Ukraine. For example, compensation for losses caused by natural disasters, compensation for socio-economic losses caused by the environmental situation, and some others. It cannot be agreed with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office that a general law on State aid is necessary for the operators. But it will take a long time. The bill presented today is the first step towards systematic monitoring of the provision of State aid. Its adoption would ensure that existing legislation on the protection of economic competition and the existing powers of the Antimonopoly Committee could be applied to certain cases of State aid which was anti-competitive, anti-market-oriented. The draft was supported by the Committee on Economic Policy and was generally welcomed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention, and please note that I've been reporting for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u144	Thank you. Is there a question? Cowchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u145	Please tell me if this bill has anything to do with the World Trade Organization, the WTO, and if I understand correctly that our radio audiences and TV viewers know that if we help agriculture, we will not have the right to do so after the adoption of this law. It will be cut off or cut off by the World Trade Organization: chemical, automotive, aircraft, which we are today providing assistance through our legislation. It will be true that this bill forbids us to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u146	Thank you for asking. The World Trade Organization does not have a bearing on this bill and will in no way prevent the provision of State aid to agriculture, whether it is a chemical or any other industry. It's just that if you take it, it's going to be a little bit of a step in the direction of some kind of government help to control it, to make it louder, so it doesn't have to be what it says in that proverb. "I gave it to one, I gave it to one." Why? What? Incomprehensible. This means that at least such assistance should be made public. So that those who receive this assistance will report on how they used it. I mean, some elements of control. Although I must say that in due course a serious framework law on the provision of State aid has been drafted which has resolved all these issues. But Parliament didn't support him. However, there is a problem, and this is an attempt, to say so, to take a step towards solving it, at least somehow, to define the very concept of what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u147	Yeah, well, Sulkowski stopped by, give him a word, a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u148	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, today the reporter, this is our colleague, former national deputy and, in fact, went to a more serious job to help Ukraine. And you know his birthday is coming. This is how I will remember him because we were born together. And so I urge you to believe that this law will only benefit Ukraine. And we need to support him, honourable national deputies, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u149	Where are the questions? Okay. Please sit down, Alexeiyovich. Evtuhov Vasil Ivanovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, draft law, changes to the law under consideration, especially in the part of State support for entrepreneurial activities, the committee considered. In response to a previous question from counterpart Kravchenko, I will say that the introduction of a legislative mechanism for monitoring the provision of state aid proposed in the changes will allow the only approach to settling state aid in general, help to eliminate inequalities in the care of the operators, deprive foreign competitors of the opportunity to use the grant. The fact that state aid is being provided in Ukraine to stimulate unjustified anti-dumping and other protective measures that unjustifiably restrict Ukrainian producers today in world markets. The committee therefore considered the bill and suggested that the draft law should be adopted in the first reading and that the committee of profile, the Economic Policy Committee, should be entrusted with the drafting of the bill and the submission of a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u151	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who Wants to Speak? Sign up. Yes, individually who? Yes, please, Samylik is handing over Zybenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u152	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. I would like to say that at the very beginning, I would like to paint a clear picture of the Communist faction's position, which is that for us it is the interests of the country's merchant, not the World Trade Organization. I would like to say that this story is not new to us, but many laws have already been adopted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adapt our Ukrainian legislation to WTO requirements. But I'd like to remind you a little bit of the story. When our foreign “welcomes” had to be pushed into office at any cost for the President of Ukraine of the western, pro-American candidate, who was and remains President Yushchenko today, the golden mountains were promised. Ukraine’s aid will be universal. When this happened, whispers were first made, and today they are openly understood. That Ukraine today is not that in the Sotovian structures, not that in the European Union, they don't want to see in the blues. So what I'd like to say is that the first thing for our faction and the most important thing is that it's about protecting the interests of our manufacturer. It is from these positions that the faction of Communists will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-23-m0.u153	Peter Stepanovich, you're telling the right thing, but there's some law about the other, some law about the other. The law deals with how state aid is regulated, that it is given out loud, that the recipient is reporting, and it is not foreign aid, and that is our government aid or benefits. [[read it, look.]] If they have, as it were, broken, that help should be. The state must return to itself. Who's gonna lose? No, no, it's not entirely about not being able to help agriculture or. There is material aid, state aid, sorry, assistance to all sectors of the national economy. All right, let's not argue, then. The discussion is over, and I'm voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Registration number 3263. Please vote. [[1:16:41]] For 224 Yeah, who's in charge of coming back? [[13:17:06]] For 223 The bill has been removed. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'm addressing you, fellow honourable Members, that today we have a 15-hour parliamentary hearing with an extremely pressing issue, namely, the problems of justice, what concerns society. I'd like to participate, and from 16 o'clock, I'd like to work on committees and factions. Good luck.
