ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests invited by the Supreme Council, representatives of the media! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:00:59]] There are 374 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Let us greet each other and all our fellow countrymen with the Day of Fatherland Defenders, wish those who defend our borders today success in combat preparation. [[Applause]] And so, taking this opportunity, let's welcome, on behalf of the Supreme Council, the head defender of the country of the High Commander-in-Chief, the President with his birthday. [[Applause]] And on behalf of the cowards, we welcome all those who are in pain for the Ukrainian sport with a good gift until the Day of Fatherland's Protector, who made the "Shakhtar" yesterday. [[Applause]] According to article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. Let me announce the questions that have come. The following requests were made by the Ukrainian National Deputies: groups of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to restore the unique international significance of the polluted hydrological resort in the village of Žurawich of the Kivertsi district of Volin Region and the inadmissibility of construction there at the temporary residence of foreigners and stateless persons who are illegally present in Ukraine. [[CARPUK, KYRILCHUK and others, only five deputies]] You see, we give these people the best places. Maybe there's another one to find. Mr. Mikoliy SIVULSKI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Andrija KLEJEV, for not responding to the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine, Mr. Viktor Merkusov, for a partial motion to cancel the order of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, dated 29 December 2006, No. 608 “For the approval of the Prescurant for Natural Gas”. Roman ZABZALJUKA to the Attorney-General on the dissatisfaction of the inspection carried out by the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai District on the violation of legislation in the seizure of property of the Open Shareholder Society, Nectar. ICCA's Orestes to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine on the concealment of the head of the city of Ternopol Roman Zastavan and head of the Ternopil City Council of the Town Council of the City of Turin information, which is an important social interest for the public of the city, about the number and number of apartments issued by the Ternopil City Council's Housing Fund since 1998 and about the grounds for the granting of apartments to individuals or others. [[of which:]] ICCA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of the City Council of Ternopil, most of whom consist of the factions “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and the illegal release of city council deputies, members of the specified factions, owners of construction organizations, from the payment of the connection to the city's water supply network. Omelana PARUBKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the insufficient response of the procurator's authorities to the parliamentary appeal regarding the illegal incarceration by a group of private and collective property in the Monastiret region of Cherkaščina. Ruslan LUKJANČUKA to the Attorney General about the threat of illegal destruction of a farm in a village of the city type Poplin of the Žitomir region. Vassila GRECCA to the Attorney-General on criminal offences against former directors of the state-owned enterprise “Polygraphic combination “Ukraine” Kyanichenko, Maximtsa and Zaletin, on the basis of the evidence of the offences provided for in articles 185, 191, 192, 208, 209, 212 and parts 2 of articles 364 and 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Ms. Alexander CERNOMOROVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the need for changes to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy order No. 107 of April 5, 2006. John BONDARCHUCA to the Head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for baseless refusal to pass through the border of the Winnicko Veterans ’ Association of War veterans in Afghanistan. YURIA MIROCHNIKAN to the Head of the Kiev State Administration for a violation of the deadline for responding to parliamentary appeals and for providing an answer is not in fact. Anatolya ANTEMUCA to the Head of the Winnitsky District Council on neglecting the leadership of the Cosatian City Council of the Vinnitsk district with the standards of living space, health, and material condition of the family of Love Kulikova at the time of handing her a warrant for a one - room apartment. Volodymira JAVORISKOVSKO to the prosecutor of the town of Sevastopol for a formal write-off from the prosecutor's office of Sevastopol for a parliamentary appeal to investigate the beating by police officers of a member of the National Writer's Association of Ukraine, the winner of the Lviv Tolstogo Prize, the winner of the literary festival “Krimska Alhambra”, Dr. Alexander Volkova. These are the parliamentary questions we have today. And please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Balas Boris Fedorovic into the composition of the Party of the Regions. Well, I hope Boris Fedorovich writes a statement about joining the Anti-Crist Coalition. Let us turn to the questions that are now being put into our daily routine. From the procedure? Please, Cibenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Adam Ivanovich, as chairman of the committee, I would like to join your welcome to the address of veterans, especially war veterans. And I'd like to ask you, and the honourable colleagues, considering that we spent February 13 with you the day of the government, which was dedicated to upholding the current legislation in part of the legal, social and moral protection of war veterans, to welcome them once more, by putting to the vote the ruling on the results of the Government Day immediately after those reports that we have planned. I think in this way we would also welcome war veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u3	Peter Stepanovich, everything will be resolved as it is written in order. Today, we work on a normal procedure, and we will make the decision, catch up, make the decision today, and welcome our veterans. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. But I can't see. Oh, there is. It's just that Vasil Vasilovich took the wrong place. Judge's bed over there, sorry. Information from the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the main trends in the administration of justice, the causes of crises in the country's judiciary and the principles of reform of the Ukrainian judicial system. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, thank you all for your support for my initiative and the opportunity to inform Parliament and society about the real state of affairs in the field of justice. Today, in Ukraine, there has been an extremely disturbing situation in the field of justice, in many respects it is a crisis, or it is approaching it. Under today’s political and social conditions, the Court, whose main purpose is to protect human rights and freedoms, is to deprive it of its ability to function as a just, independent and impartial judicial body. The seriousness of the situation testifies to the numerous appeals made by many of you, our voters, asking us to ensure that a specific matter is dealt with by law. The absolute majority of the requests are based on this: I am not asking for a decision on behalf of a party, I ask that the court take the case by law. That's where tragedy and paradoxes come in. Most of the reason for such a situation is seen in the discontent of certain courts and judges, but such a perception of the problem is very simple and superficial to my conviction. In fact, manifestations of bad conscience, abuse and other violations by some judges who are and to which there is no doubt to be an adequate legal response are just one of the many factors that determine the current situation in the field of justice. In addition, they are the result of deeper processes, such as political and social instability, the high level of corruption in social relations, the actual dependence of the court on other public authorities, the imperfections of legislation, its inflexibility, contradiction, often and far from always the deliberate introduction of legislative changes. I hope we're all aware that the problems of justice are not just the problems of the judiciary and the judges. The courts and judges do not exist outside the system of government; they are not isolated from other institutions and entities. This is particularly evident in the court’s orders in so - called Ryder cases. By means of some organizational and legal measures, the problem of the use of courts in the misuse of foreign property has been reduced. But without a general change in the political, economic, legal situation, it will not finally be solved. Among the many problems that are now relevant to the sphere of justice, I would like to highlight them. First of all, it undermines the legal principles of the exercise of justice by artificially politicizing this sphere. By trying to use the court as a means of political struggle or a struggle for property. The desire to have a hand - in - hand court or judge essentially means privatizing justice. I ask myself and you: really, the proponents of this approach do not understand that there is no alternative to an independent and fair court for a normal life in a democratic rule of law. Indeed, those who yearn for and want to control the court feel that they will remain in power forever and that a system of private interests will not be under the control of a new owner tomorrow. To the vulnerable, domestic justice makes existing, as a rule, the legal dependence of the court on other authorities of the State. Thus, depending on the authorities of the executive branch, the court makes arrangements for organizational, financial, material and technical security for the activities of the courts, social and economic security. In order to change this situation, it is urgent to do so, first of all, by the State Court of Justice, to withdraw from the system of executives and to make it part of the judiciary, to put in place a procedure for the financing of the judiciary, which would effectively ensure its independence. In my time as a national deputy, I have submitted an appropriate bill for consideration by Parliament. Last year, in June, he was accepted in the first reading by the constitutional majority, but the approval in general was delayed. There cannot be an independent court in a particular case if the judicial authority is dependent at all. A key even among the most pressing problems of justice is the absence of the institutional and procedural unity of Ukraine’s judicial system. Today in our country, just think about it, there are a few autonomous judicial systems that have separate personnel, financial, material and technical security, their own judicial authorities, the judges' boards, and so on. This is a system of courts, farm courts led by the Supreme Economic Court, administrative courts led by the Supreme Administrative Court and the general courts led by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I state responsiblely that this lays down the mines of slow action for justice, for the state and for society. The destruction of the single judicial system is taking place, and with it the state authority in general. This has a negative impact on the judicial protection of human rights, since the Supreme Court has in many cases been deprived of effective legal remedies to ensure the same judicial practice, to correct judicial errors made by lower courts. Then there is nothing left for citizens to look for the truth in the European Court of Human Rights. Today, there is a real threat that the destruction of Ukraine’s only judicial system will continue. The new edition of the Court of Justice Act, which the Committee on Justice recommended to Parliament on February 21st to adopt in the first reading, foresees the creation of not three autonomous systems, but five autonomous judicial systems: systems of administrative courts, domestic courts, criminal courts, civil courts, at the top of each of which is an appropriate higher court and an incomprehensible system, which should include, among other things, the municipal, appeals general courts and the Supreme Court. Under this project, the judicial system of the State will have a complex structure of two local courts, including three types of district courts: criminal, administrative, farm, three types of appeals courts: administrative, farm and civil courts, four higher specialized courts: the Higher Civil Court, the Higher Criminal Court, the Higher Economic Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court of Ukraine. You've learned something from this system, from this logic of building a vessel in Ukraine, and let's mention the system of military courts. Understandably, the logic of construction is difficult even for experts to understand after their detailed study. And what to do is to make an ordinary citizen look at the crafty specialization of the courts and the subjugation of cases. It's just impossible. The project provides preconditions for the legal conflict of judicial systems, since the Supreme Court and the higher specialized courts are given the same legal effect as they are entitled to give lower-level courts mandatory explanations on the application of legislation. Moreover, under this project, contrary to the Constitution, the Supreme Court does not in fact cease to be only the highest judicial authority, but the judicial authority in general, because we are depriving ourselves of a cassation function. The Council of Judges of Ukraine, which represents the entire judiciary, has received an appropriate appeal to the President, to the Supreme Council, recognizing the proposed draft on the judiciary as legally unfounded, historically unwarranted for Ukraine and not comprehensible for its citizens. I hope that Parliament will be balanced and extremely responsible in this consideration. For those who plan such a system of courts and consider themselves to be prominent architects, let them think that this system of courts will bury them under this building. But the hardest thing is that the common citizens of Ukraine will suffer. In the context of the problem of the unity of the judicial system, I would like to place your attention on the question of whether administrative courts are appropriate. The honourable MP, the established system of district and appeal administrative courts simply complicates access to human justice, since such courts are far away from the population, in many cases at a distance of 100 to 200 kilometers or more. Let me remind you that in the area it is envisaged to create a district administrative court, one for the entire area. And appeals courts will serve administrative courts in a number of areas. For example, the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal should serve under Project 8 of Western Ukraine. Tell me, please, is this access to justice? And this is a European standard that many authors and those who support this bill refer to. I don't think so. Justification of the need to establish district courts by ensuring that the courts are independent of the influence of local authorities cannot be considered to be independent and legally acceptable. An independent judge, honourable deputies, honourable citizens, I repeat to everyone, dependent on the judge, is no longer a judge in which he does not work in the household, civil, criminal, local or supreme courts. He's not a judge anymore. The problem must therefore be solved by establishing a system for ensuring the independence of each judge and not just a judge of a particular court. Some are not tired of explaining the need to create a separate system of administrative courts, the priority given to Ukraine by the Council of Europe, and the conformity of such a system with European standards. In fact, no one can tell the sovereign state what the system of justice or the legal system should be in general. The only thing we can recommend to the relevant international institutions is ensuring that a fair court is functioning. What a system of courts this will be ensured – the internal affairs of each state. The creation of a separate system of courts provides for enormous financial costs. I ask myself: “For today’s troubles, let us take at least a billion dollars just to start the functioning of the administrative courts with over a thousand new judges of these courts, including some 100 judges of the High Court. This is because the State budget now provides 1 billion 744 million dollars for the judicial system of general jurisdiction. And this is what someone calls a national approach to the formation of the judicial system. The specialization of the courts can't be an end in itself, the purpose of such a specialization in another is to ensure the proper quality and efficiency of justice, make it more accessible to people. You ask, “Is there an alternative to this?” Of course, there is a need to keep the administrative procedure currently in place by introducing specific judges in the local courts, in the district local courts. We can add one or two units, but these judges will deal directly with administrative matters. Courts of appeal need to set up an appeal chamber, which will deal directly with complaints at the level of appeal. And I can assure you that this is how the problem itself will go away. I want to point out that today local courts are looking at about 150 on average, 180 cases. They deal with so many and administrative matters. In the Supreme Court, about 150 to 200 cases and materials for one judge. And the judge of the Court of Appeal is looking at about a month of cases. There are opportunities today to create such rooms, and the problem is solved in itself. More than that, there are about 360 judges in appeals courts. An important problem that hinders the proper protection of human rights is also the excessive formalization of court proceedings, the substantial complexity of the trial when the trial is being conducted for the sake of the trial. All of this and many other problems are the result of a systemless, chaotic, thoughtless, unwarranted reform of the judicial system. Our process is extremely complex. At least think about the business process. When a case is brought before a local court, an interim ruling, an act of a judge, is brought before an appeal court. In the Court of Appeal, the case goes back to the local court, is again appealed to the Supreme Court of Agriculture, the case just runs for months, years from one institution to the highest. We have to ask the trial, and now the Supreme Court is working on this issue. It is also obvious that today those who determine the direction of judicial reform do not have a clear and sole vision of our country’s future system. As a result, dangerous experiments have resulted in fundamental justice reform. In this situation, our main task is to prevent, firstly, the destruction of the existing judicial system, secondly, from maximizing its capacity to improve justice. Some might view this as braking judicial reform, and for me, it's a smart, balanced and state-based approach. The key to judicial reform lies primarily in the legal process. It is the process that determines the essence of justice. We've created a trial that is extorting literally judges and other court officials, which is killing people, and we're seeing the result today. Thus, when the judicial system is reformed, it is necessary to first determine the content of the trial and so forth. We are reforming with a different approach: the courts are being formed and the trial is being brought under them. This is what we see in the case of the administrative courts. It's the same thing as putting the wagon in front of the horses, not the other way around. The thoughtlessness of reforming the trial has led to the fact that more than 40,000 civil cases are currently pending before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. For years, people have been waiting for them to be considered in a cassation. It's already a proponent of a cassation, it's already a formality. This situation did not stem from the fault of the judges, the civil court, who are now working at the limits of physical and psychological capabilities. I already said, a month of about 200 cases and materials. It is produced by unwarranted legislative regulation on civil matters. By the way, most of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which find violations by the courts of the Ukrainian Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, deal with a violation of the reasonableness of the court’s case. In this regard, honourable deputies, I would like to thank you, my former colleagues, for the law adopted yesterday that will allow for a cassational discussion in these matters at an early date. I realize that the fundamental solution to the issue of court review is ahead, but I am also convinced that we will do this together because it is unwise, unfair, for judges of the Supreme Court to deal with cases of use of toilets, borders, fines for 40, 50, 100 dollars. That's not what the Supreme Court judge should be doing. I and the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Court deal with dozens of cases of fines for road traffic offences every day. 48, 16 bracelets -- that's what I'm supposed to do with the Supreme Court? My colleagues and I need to define a strategy for the development of the judicial system. There is another urgent problem. We have created a situation in which the courts of the Republic deal with four million traffic - related administrative cases each year: eight bracelets, 16 bracelets. We've introduced a bill, and I ask you to support it to get back to the police. And where only citizens will object to police action, they will refer these cases to the court. Despite all the shortcomings, the complexity of the situation, I am convinced that we have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u6	That we today have social, political, legal and other preconditions for a fair trial in Ukraine. In this bloodline, all are equally interested in politics, business, authorities, and citizens. Because the vast majority of citizens, the vast majority of you who are in this room right now, in any country wants to live by the rules laid down by law, want to count on a fair solution to public, private affairs, to be sure of tomorrow. And all of us, regardless of the positions we have in terms of wealth, yearn for justice that only a fair court can provide in the rule of law. It is important for society to live with such a judgment today. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u7	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, let us thank the Supreme Court Chief Vassil Vasilovich for his information on the situation in this very important branch of government. And I want to go to those profiling committees that depend on solving the problems that Vasil Vasilovich was talking about. Make concrete suggestions on what Parliament can do to improve the situation. Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. We're not discussing this information, we're just, once again, honourable colleagues, we agreed that this information, this was not our initiative with you, it was the initiative of the Supreme Court, its head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u8	Yes. But you and I didn't act as initiators. Just as the head of the Supreme Court asked us to inform. That's when you and I are going to consider specific laws, and then we're going to talk. Yeah, let's move on to the next question, here was our initiative. Information from the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Tsushka Vasil Petrovich on the situation in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. I suggest we build. There's no Vasile, not yet? Well, let's wait, maybe he's been blocked? So, Hara's on the spot? Yes. Then we'll wait for the minister to show up. We are hearing a preliminary report from a temporary special commission to examine the status of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the normative and law enforcement activities of government bodies, officials, other subjects of authority. Hara Vasil Georgievich. Please, Vasil Georgievic, well, we won't give you, of course, 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 12 January 2007, today your attention is requested to provide a preliminary report by the Provisional Special Commission to examine the status of compliance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine in the normative and enforcement activities of public authorities, officials and other authorities. At the first organizational meeting of the Commission, on 6 February 2007, under the regulations, the Secretary of the Commission was elected a member of the BUT faction Constantinov Evgeny Semenović. It was decided to establish three working groups to interact with various actors of authority. The first group is working with the Supreme Council, the President, the Kabmin, the National Security and Defence Council, including Hara, the President, Evtukhova, Constantinova, Demidko, Donchak. The second group, working with the Attorney-General's Office, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice, composed of Matveyev, the head of the group, Zubanova, Bondika, Pisarenko, Artemenko. The third group, working with the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government bodies, the Kiev City Council, the Human Rights Commissioner, the National Bank of Ukraine, consisting of Savostin, the head of the group, Kruglov, Argevitina, Bougeraka, Lanovo. In view of the changes in the Ukrainian Constitution and the consequent change in the State form of government, including the redistribution of powers between the President of Ukraine, it is logical for the branches of power to analyse the state of compliance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the rule of law and the enforcement of public authorities, officials and other bodies of power since 1 January 2006. At the same time, on the basis of the Commission's actual capabilities, the analysis of the acts issued since the formation of the Government of the coalition of MP factions of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine was primarily carried out. On 22 January, our Commission sent letters to the relevant public authorities to obtain information on the shortcomings in the rule-of-law and rule-of-law conflicts that they consider to be insufficient. Such letters were sent to the Registry of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the Defence Council, the Constitutional and Supreme Courts of Ukraine, the Attorney-General's Office, the National Bank, the Supreme Council and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Human Rights Commissioner, the State Property Fund, the Foundation for the Promotion of Local Self-Government. In addition, a letter was sent to the Institute of State and its rights. A request for cooperation as an independent expert. I would like to point out the speediness of the Cabinet Secretariat in providing quality information and full information to the Commission. They also provided material to the National Security and Defence Council, the Constitutional Court, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Human Rights Commissioner, the State Welfare Fund, the Foundation for the Promotion of Local Self-Government of Ukraine, the National Bank. Regrettably, the Office of the Attorney-General has been dismissed, recalling that annual information on the status of the rule of law will be sent to the President of the Supreme Council in the near future, although we have requested some other information. The Commission looks forward to material from other subjects of authority and hopes that our communications will not go unanswered. Regrettably, we received an expert opinion from the Chief Legal Administration of our native Supreme Council, on which we had very much hoped. But most of all, we were struck first. It would seem the most interested party to the search for the truth of the Ukrainian President's Secretariat, three of our letters, two phone calls and almost a month of time to get a sombre response in the form of a refusal. I quote the most understandable part of the answer. The Constitution of Ukraine does not refer to the constitutional powers of Parliament to an analysis of the status of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine in the normative and law enforcement activities of the President of Ukraine, which under article 102 of the Basic Law of Ukraine is a guarantee of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine. It follows from the Constitution that this issue cannot be prepared and considered in advance by the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The comments are superfluous. The only thing I want to say is that I feel sorry for the President of our country, surrounded by militant dilettants in his home secretariat. They will continue to push the President into conflict situations on various issues. Honourable colleagues, despite the reluctance of the Presidential Secretariat of Ukraine to cooperate with Parliament in resolving the delimitation of the powers of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 3 of the Universal of National Unity, the elimination of conflict situations in the normative work of the State body, had sufficient material at our disposal to conduct a primary analysis of legal acts. Since August 2006, some 800 acts have been issued by the President of Ukraine, 34 of which have been issued without taking into account the requirements of article 106, part 4, of the Ukrainian Constitution, for the consolidation of the signature of the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for the act and its implementation, i.e. the confrontation. Eight acts of the President of Ukraine on the appointment or dismissal of the Presidents of local public administrations have been taken in violation of article 118, paragraph 4, of the Constitution without the relevant submissions from the Cabinet of Ministers. In a separate group, the actions of the President of Ukraine have been issued in excess of the powers of the President established by the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as with signs of interference with the powers of other authorities of the State, in particular the executive, and above all the following decrees: - On the preparation of proposals and the preliminary consideration of nominations for posts and the exemption of local government officials from posts dated 04.08.2006, No. 675. - Amendments to Presidential Decree No. 1098 of 19 November 2001. - With regard to the mandatory special inspection, the information received is submitted by candidates for public service positions and the list of positions of heads of military law enforcement bodies, diplomatic authorities for which candidates for appointments are in agreement with the President of Ukraine dated 04.12.2006, No. 1025. - On the temporary exercise of the duties of chairpersons of local public administrations, questions of the Public Administration of the case of 23.01.2007, No. 33, questions of the State Property Fund of Ukraine and so on. Exceeding the powers of the President of Ukraine is also monitored by the issuance of an act authorizing the Government to implement organizational measures, including through the use of budgetary resources of the Ukrainian Book Order in 2007 and the Ukrainian Book of 15.12. 2006, number 1088. The President's decrees, which suspend the Government's rulings because of their inconsistencies, in the view of the President, are suspended. Since August 2006, 13 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have been suspended and a request to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has been sent simultaneously. At the same time, following a preliminary review of the suspended acts of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission concluded that there was no basis for their suspension. In general, more than 80 acts of the President of Ukraine are subject to legal observations, including those issued outside the President's mandate, clearly defined in the 106th Ukrainian Constitution. In addition, the President's normative activities have been delayed with the preparation of Presidential decrees on the recognition of the incumbent acts of the President, which have been approved in the period under review by the Ministry, as well as the neglect of article 118, part 9, and 10, of the Ukrainian Constitution on the resignation of the Presidents of the State Administrations, to whom the relevant councils have expressed mistrust. The Commission has considered some two thousand decrees and orders from the Cabinet of Ministers on various issues. The results of the analysis of the materials provided indicate that there are existing Government acts whose provisions do not fully comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and are therefore subject to immediate review. This is, in particular, the order of 10.07. In 2006, the number 950, which, contrary to the provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution, establishes a special order for appointment and dismissal from the post of Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister of Defence. Decision No. 572 of 24.12.2005 of the Cabinet of Ministers and No. 20 of 18 January 2006, despite the resolution of the matter by the State Service Act of Ukraine, was unjustifiably classified as certain categories of public service posts, which were assigned to certain posts in the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat and in the Office of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. For reasons of objectivity, it should be noted that the existence of problems in demarcating the powers of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers is also due to the absence of the Presidential Act, on ministries and other central executive bodies, on the foundations of domestic and foreign policy, which should contain clear mechanisms for the exercise of the constitutional powers of the President and the Government. The existence in some laws of Ukraine of outdated pre-formed rules of authority of the President of Ukraine, in particular regarding the appointment and dismissal of central executive heads and their deputies. Dear colleagues! Within a short period of time, the Commission was able to address only a small part of the issues related to the tasks of the Supreme Council before the Commission. The existence of a number of problems in relation to the conformity of the Constitution, Ukrainian laws, the rule of law and the law enforcement of public authorities and other authorities is explained by information received from the Constitutional Court. During the period from 1 January 2006 to the present time, the Constitutional Court received thousands of 811 referrals, of which 44 were constitutional submissions and 326 constitutional references to conformity with the Constitution with the provisions of Ukrainian legislation. The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine expressed its concern about the state of regulations. The absence of a law that regulates in detail the preparation of projects, the process of approval and the State registration of sub-laws, the grounds for the use and the boundaries of the relevant competences of public authorities and officials adversely affect the implementation of the principles of the rule of law; the creation of the necessary obstacles, the emergence of regulations that do not conform to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine; and the violation of the rights of citizens and legal persons. The Fund for the Promotion of Local Self-Government of Ukraine has identified one of the main challenges of the current Constitution: the non-compliance of the existing system of basic administrative and territorial units with the concepts of the Ukrainian Constitution. It is also a problem to disagree with section 11 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the organization of local self-government at the regional and regional levels with the provisions of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. While appreciating the desire of the Supreme Council to share these issues with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act of 23.12.2005 on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on the improvement of the system of local self-government. The Foundation for the Promotion of Local Self-Government notes its significant shortcomings and makes proposals. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea draws our Commission's attention to the absence of the legislatively regulated activities of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to the inadequacy and to the lack of electoral legislation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea from the improved electoral legislation of Ukraine, which has resulted in different arrangements for relations related to the preparation and conduct of elections. Many of the problems and proposals were raised by the National Bank of Ukraine, beginning with the lack of compliance with certain provisions of the Civil and Economic Code of Ukraine and ending with specific proposals for bills. We have received serious proposals from the Commissioner for Human Rights and the Welfare Fund. Dear colleagues, the issues that have opened up to our Commission in the first months of its work are very diverse, complex and very important. We see our task of identifying the causes of existing problems and taking legislative and other initiatives to address them. This task is also within the power of both the Provisional Special Commission, both the authorities and the Supreme Council as a whole. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the results of the preliminary report of the Commission. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u10	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Are there any questions we might want to ask? Yes. Please write it down. Yeah, well, let's give everyone a chance. Please, four minutes. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u11	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, we've just received some very interesting information from our colleague, and we're very grateful to him. May God let him continue to do so and receive such information to the people of Ukraine. And that's why I call on my colleagues to really think that enough and specific information has been given, we understand everything, to get to the following information from the Minister of Internal Affairs, and that will be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u13	Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u14	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Vassil Georgievovich, I believe that your report is of a unilateral and politically involved nature, because the commission's task is to establish the activities of state bodies, officials, subjects of authority, and you have virtually stopped only on the analysis of acts, orders, Presidential decrees and, let's just say, have not analysed the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and other central authorities. That's why I have this question. Is it beyond the authority of your commission and considering that you have declared to be 1831 constitutional submission and appeal to the Constitutional Court that you have granted your commission the authority of the Constitutional Court and are conducting an analysis of such positions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u15	One. You and I have voted in favour of the establishment of a commission, we have elected me as President, and we have performed the functions that the Supreme Council has entrusted to the Commission. I am deeply convinced that there is no conflict with the Constitution, no Ukrainian law in the work of our commission. That's the first one. Second. It's about one-sidedness. I already told you that the Secretariat of the President's Administration did not wish to cooperate with the Commission and did not submit to us, in their view, the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers and other bodies which do not comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And third. We have examined more than 200 orders and decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, and so far we have only found two decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers that are inconsistent with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. These two decisions have been taken by the Cabinet of Ministers even before the formation of the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic. Therefore, there is absolutely no point in accusing us of engaging and considering only one-sidedly. It's all done objectively. Yesterday at a meeting of the Committee. Our commission, where all representatives of all political forces were present in the Chamber, has not commented on today's report. Today's report was.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u16	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we should. Are there willing discussions? None. We need to make the decision proposed by the commission. Be careful, I suggest you, Your Honor, take the third paragraph out of this decree. We recommend that the President hasten the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Law on the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and enact such laws. I think it's the right of legislators. There is a desire for the President or the Cabinet of Ministers to pass laws, please, and our business will then consider them. So I suggest you take the third paragraph out of this decision and accept it. Please vote without the third paragraph. Vote. [[10:52:05]] For 190 The factions, please. Relax a bit. 134 – Party of Regions, 3 – Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine”, socialists. I repeat, Your Honor. A decree that assesses what we are taking to the knowledge of the previous information from the provisional commission. Second, we draw attention to the need for timely submission by government authorities and other authorities. The third one's taken away. And “the temporary commission to continue its work according to its tasks. On the results of the activities, prepare a report to the Supreme Council by July 1st.” And “this decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted”. And the third point where we put the task of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers is taken away. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[10:53:11]] For 238. We're back. I would like to vote on the adoption of the Supreme Council Regulation on Previous Information from the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the status of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the normative and law enforcement activities of state bodies, officials, other subjects of authority. Registration number 3222. Please vote. [[10:53:49]] For 245 Thank you. Order adopted without a third paragraph. Yes, listen to the announcement. Thank you for your intelligence. On the basis of a personal statement made by Ukrainian national deputy Bilasz Boris Fedorovic, a member of the Party of the Regions' MPs, I report his membership as part of the anti-crisis coalition of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, there is already Vasil Petrovich. Information from the Minister of Internal Affairs on the situation in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's suggested that we give him 20 minutes for the information, 20 minutes for the report. There's a proposal, the committee wants to make a statement, six minutes, lady, because there's two representatives from the committee. And then let's see, if you want to talk about it, we'll talk about it. The questions will be, like, 20 minutes. Please, Vasil Petrovich, 20 minutes of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u17	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues are national MPs, distinguished representatives. Dear Fatherlanders, I welcome everyone to the feast, I wish you all the best. [[Applause]] Thank you. Sorry I'm late. Let me get started. You appointed me Minister of Internal Affairs in December 2006. In my opinion, the IMF was perceived as a system that worked clearly and in harmony as a clock mechanism. But in studying the state of affairs from the inside, a more detailed consideration of the functioning of this structure, it found that it was fairly balanced and demoralized. And the winning relations of the previous leadership seemed unconvincing. And the statistics that's been going on for three years have to be listened to with a calculator in hand, positive data -- divide both, negative times to have a more or less real picture. Clearly, the main task of the police is to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens from criminal acts, to respond promptly and effectively to citizens’ appeals and to bring the guilty to justice. At the same time, the analysis of relevant statistics in recent years suggests a significant reduction in criminal offences while increasing citizen reports of crime. If, in 2003, 26 percent of applications and reports were decided on criminal cases, in 2006 only 15%. And it's not about improving the criminogenic situation in the country. Lacmus ’ assessment is based on murder, robbery, and robbery — crimes that cannot be concealed from the public. We can see that more have been done, and they've been exposed worse. With regard to the seeming decline in the number of thefts, the law simply increases the material threshold to criminalize them. Statistically, this led to an automatic reduction of nearly a third, but the actual number of thefts did not decrease. Taking this opportunity, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to consider amending article 51 of the Code of Administrative Offences regarding the reinstatement of the previous limit of criminal liability for theft. Next, let's look at the crimes committed in public places. According to statistics, they've gone down almost twice, but let every citizen ask, has the law and order on the streets improved? And where does half the reported robberies and robberies begin? Almost 80% of illegal auto-transport seizures. This open manipulation was done to justify the creation of a patrol service at the expense of the decommissioning of the DAI. It combines public order and road safety functions to worsen the situation both in public places and in road safety. We are now convinced of the need for a return to the justified practice of road patrol and post office, which has been accumulated for decades. A terrible situation has taken place on the roads. Although statistics show the opposite again, their objectivity has been proved by beasts with medical facilities. Last year alone, more than 4,000 road accidents were hidden, killing 725 and injuring nearly 4 and a half thousand people. The real picture of an emergency in Ukraine is more like a frontal hoax. Nearly 50,000 accidents, more than 7 and a half thousand casualties, and 60,000 casualties. And drivers know that there will be virtually no penalty for violating traffic rules, especially if there are strong arguments in the pocket. Of the 4 million administrators, only one court has been ruled, and more than 3 million have been brought before the courts without consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has registered the Bill of People's Deputies Mendussi and Adventures, which has been developed in close collaboration with IMF experts. Please support him. In the absence of a proper rule of law, the demilitarization of the police and the weakening of the confidence of citizens in their own safety made sense. Unfortunately, he remains one of the lowest law enforcement agencies today. Inadequate and deficient is the resistance to economic crime. Although the previous management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs over the past two years has declared high gains in this direction, particularly in reporting the results of the 2005 internal affairs authorities, information has been published that the internal affairs authorities have exposed the abuse of 19 billion dollars of the authorities. According to statistics to the Department of Information Technology of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ukraine has completed criminal activities in relation to economic crime in 2005 with a total of nearly 20 times less, 1 billion 57 million dollars. A more detailed study of bribery has shown that small bribes are largely exposed in the health, education, housing and utility systems. The sums of bribes are known to be no more than 300 dollars. As a result, in 2005, of the 734 convicted of bribery, up to 30 persons were sentenced to imprisonment. I do not know why, perhaps to strengthen a personal political image in the past, the task of attracting criminal responsibility to certain officials has been openly pursued. In the media, reports were published by the IMF management about the involvement of officials in a number of ex-heads of government. I report that none of them have been brought to criminal responsibility. Now, the main criterion for an effective fight against economic crime will be the end result, that is, the referral of criminal cases to court and the verdict handed down. I'm familiar with it. Almost every day we keep 304 bribes. But we will talk about the result only after the court’s decisions have been made. In particular, I would like to stop at the National Bureau of Interpol. Regrettably, the main focus of this unit was the search for several former Ukrainian high - crewers who had the opportunity to evaporate on television. In fact, the red cards are displayed by only 2 persons, not 10, as stated. In addition, in the last two years, there has been no illegal legalization of smuggled cars, no detection of drug trafficking channels, no illegal smuggling of goods and materials into Ukraine. Instead of gathering and exchanging information, flying comforts were created that traveled across Ukraine in vain attempts to detect the road stolen abroad, spending considerable public money. By the way, the former Interpol manager would have been a general in a year and a half from the major to the colonel if he hadn't been stopped. Not everyone likes the personnel changes that are taking place in the ministry. But I assure you, all these changes are well-founded, not compared to the global change in 2005-2006. Today, only those who have unsatisfying results are released. Human resources changes are needed, and the following facts will prompt them to do so. In the past two years alone, 31,000 workers have been released from internal affairs, of whom more than 19,000 or 62.5 percent have served for more than 10 years. 37 district and transport officials and 167 of their deputies were thoughtlessly replaced, as were 96 percent of the heads of the IMF’s urban, district, and linear authorities. As a result, 89 percent of the city’s chiefs serve in positions of office for up to two years. Four of them in one year and only 25 people in five years. In one of the internal affairs divisions, the average age is 23 years. Who, then, were appointed as executive officers? With the exception of units, they are people who have no experience in management and organizational skills. For example, at Volina, a physical education teacher is the director. Such examples can continue, and they will be hundreds. And by the district leaders. But I think it's not the physicists who defend the peace of the citizens and fight the criminals. We looked closely at the work of such woeful drivers. They tested the results of their activities, particularly during the operational-prevention operation at the end of 2006. It turns out that the indicators given to the Ministry are too high. There is no proper service organization. A logical and logical decision has been made to release a number of random people. I'm going to point out that the evaluation of their work was consistent with the results of an anonymous survey of the individual composition. About 100,000 officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were interviewed. Nearly 50 percent of managers were rated as midwives and 81 as low executives. What I'm saying is that the evaluation of managers, based on the results of the activities of the subordinate unit, is that the survey of the composition and the citizens will be constant. So two or three months from now, others, including reappointed leaders, can be released. The Department of Internal Security was supposed to be the filter for prejudice against illegality and misdemeanours. However, after learning more about his activities, we saw that he had actually become the penal organ of the 30s of the last century. The states of internal security were unjustifiably dispersed and their priorities changed in terms of repressive methods. The main criterion for determining the effectiveness of the work of the DSB was the number of criminal cases violated with regard to police personnel. It grew to 3.5 councils, and these cases were mostly those of low - and - middle - level workers. And they've turned around on the principle of blackmail and provocation. A person was framed, then called a price, and if they got what they wanted, if they didn't, the victim was actually punished for not being redeemed. And the work of this structure was beyond criticism, any control. Who has been in charge of this unit for the past two years? At first, a man who had not worked for a day before his appointment as a deputy minister, along with a short term, grew up to be a deputy minister. Special merit is known from the major to the colonel. In the middle of 2006, the Department of Internal Security led a businessman, the founder of several private businesses, to the appointment of no day in the police. There is now a major restructuring of the Internal Security Service. Professionals will be involved in the work, which will provide real protection for the individual’s entire composition. Many issues are raised by the IMF's financial and economic activities. With a view to an independent assessment of the financial situation, we have asked the Head of State for a financial audit, which will finally be completed by the end of March of this year. However, only a few previous findings suggest a large amount of financial misconduct. Serious budget estimates. To maintain the central apparatus, 72 million dollars have been spent. An additional unit has been set up at the headquarters of the Ministry of Internal Affairs with a higher number of employees. In addition to the approved Cabinet of Ministers, nearly 3,000,800 employees were actually financed by the central apparatus. At the same time, these units did not appear in the Ministry’s official schedule approved by Minfin. Such a system of prior management of the IMF, in addition to financial irregularities, could have had serious political consequences, since it involved additional illegal operational units, including those involved in interrogation, external surveillance, criminal intelligence, and other special operations. The new management of the IMF sees as a priority task of eliminating this opaque structure and legalizing these units in the state. By the way, when we started to find out that there were special complexes for listening to mobile phone lines and mobile phone locations at any time, it turns out that only nine such complexes were purchased at the expense of the budget. And 17 were transferred to the Ukrainian Security Service. This suggests that there is a potential use for the purchase of technicians from some other source of funding other than the state budget. Hence also the possibility of unsanctioned purchases and use of such complexes, including in the interests of individual political forces or commercial structures. On these issues, we are conducting an internal investigation. According to operational changes in the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, eight of these systems have simply disappeared. Where are they now? Which of you, the honourable citizens, listen to who they are following, unfortunately, I have no inheritance from this information. But we are working on this operational data and we are looking forward to fruitful cooperation with colleagues from other competent authorities to ensure the safety of citizens from unsanctioned listening. Major abuses have occurred in population-related transactions for the provision of paid services to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, especially in relation to the State Automobile Inspection. DAI has created a large number of MBS companies that receive fees for car registration, examinations, driver’s licenses, maintenance, car registration, and so on. One of them was the “Resources” company, which raised hundreds of millions of people by summer 2006. Today, several criminal cases involving financial abuse have been committed against persons who are under siege. Establishing the direction of use of funds is somewhat complicated because at the end of last year the company ceased its business. Almost all documents were destroyed in connection with the change in the administration of the Ministry. The Rivers IMF, which replaced Resources in 2006, was able to make about 43 million dollars. of which only 8 000 are accounted for by the IMF. 700 bucks. And the manager of this company rented a lexus car and paid rent every month for 70,000 dollars. The management of the IMF has deliberately destroyed the centralized system of issuances, the previous system is meant, the issuing of driver's licenses, tetalons, and so on. To this end, 254 MREV issued documents related to the registration of cars, and equipment worth 14 million dollars was purchased for the sole purpose of preventing the issuance of documents from being centralized and controlled. They spend tens of millions of dollars on the development and purchase of 18 computer programs to produce and register driver’s rights and 7 programs for untouched vehicles that are incompatible with each other. Millions of dollars in air. And we have a situation where you don't know how many smuggled cars, cars with the same numbers and purchased rights. I'm already asked by the ministers to explain what's going on: he's coming, Minister Kabmin, two ministers came to me, and he sees a car with the same numbers he has on the service car. Also last year, the IMF contracted 6 million dollars for the development of a software program for the DAI city of Kiev. The cities of Kiev. Today, there is neither money nor program. The fact is that a criminal case has been committed. That's why they're waiting in line to register cars. I apologize to the kiwis and now we're doing the best we can. anything possible to correct someone's willful crimes. criminal errors. And these facts will also be evaluated according to the law. Moral responsibility must also be involved. In each case, a driver who does not know how to drive has material rights. It's just... it's... it's... Then, for the increase in disaster on the roads of hundreds of human sacrifices offered to the altar of someone else’s wealth. The methods and channels of dissipating government funds in the IMF system were very varied. Again in 2006, under the direction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the privatization of the security signal controls that belonged to the State Security Service was carried out. Through the creation of a separate closed-circuit company “Protection complex”. Most of the funds received from the provision of security services were credited to the insurance company’s own company, insuranceing its own so - called financial risks under virtually fictitious insurance contracts, as insurance cases under these contracts never occurred. In these operations, the state lost some 25 million dollars. Now we're reprivatizing the security controls, returning them to the property of the State Security Service. It is difficult for us to explain to the citizens of Ukraine who pay hundreds of dollars for the registration of only one car, the efficiency of the IMF enterprises created by its previous management. An analysis of the use of the funds of these enterprises indicates that a system has been set up for the transfer of these funds to other commercial entities with further theft. It is difficult to establish the exact number of commercial enterprises created by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I began to do my duty — I was told that there are 43 businesses. At present, we've discovered 200 companies. We're doing inventory now. And according to previous data, we have about 200 enterprises and almost two thousand funds. Nearly a thousand of these funds were created in 2005-2006. Of course, an analysis of the activities of such a financial empire requires not only the efforts of the CIA but also the law enforcement agencies. For the first time in the history of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I have commissioned operational services, such as the State Department of Economic Crime, to start operational development in the IMF system with the aim of detecting abuses and attracting officials to criminal responsibility. The extent of the abuse with the property of the Ministry is impressive. Not the most significant amount of loss, but it's very clear that the sale of a building in the University of Kiev, 16/7, is about two thousand four hundred nine hundred two square meters, where since the 1970s the department was located.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u18	Let me finish. Please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u19	In September 2005, the Deputy Minister of the Interior, who was responsible for the business, was given written consent to move the Ministry of Internal Affairs units out of the building, which was sold in December 2005 by the Kyiv City State Administration to commercial entities. At the same time, other areas for the deployment of MCS units were not offered. Another example is the land plot of nearly 1 hectare [1 ha] in Kiev on Perova Boulevard, which was transferred to an investor to build housing for the capital police. It turns out that this strong investor is a brand-new commercial firm that has never built anything, and her principal is a student who lives in a dormitory. There are many similar examples. We can only expect that the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in these cases has acted unselfishly. But for preventive purposes, after completion of the test, we'll transfer all the materials to the prosecutor's office. Even his business cars were owned by the executives. For example, the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs ruled as his property, for example, by his instructions, the dear Volkswagen-Tuarek Jeep was transferred to the free use of a person who had no bearing on the IMF, who had been using this machine for personal purposes for a year. In general, there are about 20 cases of car service during the year with IMF drivers, including DAI employees and the special departments of Cobras of persons who do not work at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We all remember high - sounding companies when we cut privileges, commercials for the sale of expensive cars at the IMF. At present, at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, about 100 cars are literated with more than 4 liters [4 to 6 liters] of engine capacity, and these cars are used, and they are not needed for the time being. In order to remedy the situation, a number of specific measures have already been taken by colleagues from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Taking into account existing shortcomings in economic activity, the IMF is taking steps to prevent distortions of financial discipline, the preservation of state property, the creation of centralized accounting, and the structure of the management of the IMF. For the first time in the history of the IMF, a thorough inventory of property and a register of property is being created, and its optimal need is being determined. If it's a rule, then I'll answer your questions, because I need another seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u20	Yes, thank you, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u21	Thank you. I think I'll answer the questions, I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u22	He will say what he wants to say in your questions. But you will ask wise questions. Sign up. Yes, please, 20 minutes. The oil man, Hara's behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u23	Rev. Olijnik, Yulia Block Timoshenko Vasil Petrovich, please tell me. We have heard enough information prepared. It is filled with interesting facts built on the criticism of previous leadership. Of course, in less than three months, you have made a thorough decision. But it would be interesting to hear how it could have happened that on December 2nd, when you were presented to the IMF's special composition, you said that only two criteria would determine human resources policy -- it was professionalism and honesty, but the first manifestations of this human resources policy had already taken place 11 days after mass layoffs started. Did you, in 11 days, not working in the police for a day, find out about the professional quality of management? And tell me, please, when will we hear from the minister what will be done today and tomorrow in order to improve this situation, and not just to criticize, or even to criticize, the previous work, even though it was done anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u24	Dear colleague Olynnick! I didn't fire anyone. He suggested that I write a report to the deputies I started working with because I thought I had the right to start working with the people with whom I could correct the situation in the Ministry. I'm going to start with you more specific. I didn't say much here. When I began working as a minister, my fellow MPs, who worked for the commission to investigate the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, told me that more than 6.5 billion griven had been set up around the Ministry. I'm saying, come on, asshole, this can't be happening! You know, for today, there's only 20 percent of what's happening in the M.I.A., and already the C.R.I. is showing 560 million. So, my friends, I couldn't work with people who didn't control it. Further, I asked why our internal economic unit for economic security verification. Economic crime is not controlled by firms in the militia. So that's where the answer was, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u25	Yes, dear fellows, calm down. Others will answer, and Vasil Petrovich will say. Vassil Petrovich, you're a little busy. We've got a minute to answer. Please, instead of Harry Chechetov. Then Babourin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u26	Dear Vasili Petrovich, we see that you are making arrangements, restoring the proper work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, returning the best professional personnel to the system illegally dismissed for political reasons. Thank you so much for that. Since your predecessor, with the President's tacit consent, practically destroyed the IMF system by turning it into a political quest, throwing hundreds of thousands of top professionals into the streets, replacing them with free dilettaries, drummers, miners who had seen the army before. A large number of people have left on their own so as not to dishonor the uniform's honor. Vassili Petrovich, I have two questions. Is it true that the Ministry of Internal Affairs can become a member of the fighting system in one day? And the second. Please tell me if you can get three names in the police force in a year and a half: Major, Lieutenant Colonel and Colonel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u27	So I'll try to make it in a minute. We are investigating the departures of the Ministry of Internal Affairs personnel per day, flew to Kosovo, awarded awards, returned and received participants in hostilities. There are cases like this. I'm not sounding my last name. It goes, I think, when the decision is made, you'll get that information. It's called. It only takes four years to get from the Major to the Lieutenant Colonel, and from the Lieutenant Colonel to the Colonel for five years. I'll tell you what else, all the names were handed to the bosses. I answer immediately to Mr. Olejnik. What did I do? First, not Minister Tsushko now assigns the title to the panel to be public. Because our names were sold and sold. posts. And today, a panel is appointed by the head of the RPA. He looks at everyone in public, and he assigns titles to them. Remember the USSR, how many officers were there in the USSR? Moscow was seconded by the Lieutenant Colonel and beyond. And we've got a militia chief in the area, and we've got a mob in the area. And more specifically, if I'm going to tell you, I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u28	Finish it. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u29	I got an M.V.I., and we got you and me, a country where maybe 1,500, maybe 2,000 ex-police officers who are now outside the M.I.D. puppeteering. The Ministry of Internal Affairs still exists, steel and become multimillionaires, dollars, and all others have become bribes and fight corruption only by raising wages and social protection for these people. I'm asking you, who are you to represent any factions, think about it, I really intend with your help, any faction gradually along with the team that I'm calling to order. Ah, Mikhail Vasilevich, when you finish your question, I'm bringing people back, but it's not the fact that they're the most honest people, the mistakes may be, and if they're three months from now, in two months, I'm gonna kick them out, and I'm not gonna look them in the teeth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u30	Alexei Babourin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u31	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Dear Vasili Petrovich, the bad practice of the post-Soviet militia is visible to all. When a staff member changes the heads of the regional HQ every year, comes with his team, gets an apartment, leaves in a year, solves his questions and does not even examine the names of his subordinates. I think we've got you back in Zaporozhye today. So I wanted to ask you, is this going to be a system at work or is this an exception to the rules? And one more question. And one more question. You said for professionals, a lot of professionals were affected by oranges, look closely at the personnel regions, there are professional, honest police personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u32	So it's the first one. First of all, I ask you not to politicize the police, the worst tragedy that has ever begun to politicize it. We really need to bring in the professionals. The victim is indisposed, see what kind of tail he has. I am now looking in all directions, including the internal service and so on. I'm clarifying people's point of view. Let's move on. In fact, I have a practice of going back to where he grew up. For example. I returned to Nikolayevsk, a fine chief, a great boss from Crimea, who worked in Nikolayev -- this was seen as positive. I don't get it anywhere, but in the first phase I'm going to do it that way. It's about professionals. As far as the work is concerned, the staff is still working. You know, the biggest tragedy is that there's never been a training with a staff. I appointed those he redesigned for the first time during the week. So believe me, they're very positive about this study. She's not a student, she's, well, people are getting acquainted with documents, experiences and so on. They're meeting with the leaders. All week. And this week, it has a positive effect. Now who we appoint, we redefine, we reconfirm, and many of us just reconfirm, so that's what this stage is all about. I can tell you. We're always complaining about the GAI.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u33	HAI will be later. Matthew, please. Now he's going to ask about GAI.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Victor Borschevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u35	Victor Borszewski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u36	Borszewski, Dnepropetrovska oblast, Communist Party of Ukraine. Vassili Petrovich, in your report, you mentioned the criminal proceedings against the Heads of Government, heads of the cities of the illuminating areas. After all, is the Ministry going to be specifically today, if there are cases, bringing them to an end? That's the first question. And the second question. I'm, uh, he's connected to my parliamentary appeal to you, asking me to check out private security firms. Today, in Dnepropetrov region, they participate in gangs. It turns out that the private security guard Griffon beat up the people's deputies, so the director with whom the contract of the former head of the perimeter was concluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u37	So we've got about 4,000 security companies. And I'll tell you where I started my job. You haven't noticed that since the beginning of my job, I've bragged to you, the police have not been involved in the raiding support of anyone. Because on the third day of my work or on the fifth day, I issued an order saying, “Any decision of the board to put me on the table, and I will personally decide how to execute it.” There is the President of the Supreme Court, there is the Attorney-General, I will consult and I will not violate the law. And since then, the police have not been involved in the raid. And you're right, only private firms are involved. We're checking all these firms now, and I assure you, Comrade Borszewski, those firms that participated in the raids will be dislicensed. And we've already lost some. And now we're doing a five-number meeting with them to figure it out. Because these firms, by law and under those licensing conditions, have to participate, on the contrary, in assisting in public order in order to prevent crime, and we work against the law, many of them, not all of them, naturally. It's about the heads of administration. You know that high-level managers and heads of district administrations do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u38	Let me finish, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u39	are among the first and third categories of staff. Their corruption is being investigated by the D.A.'s office, so I'm not taking any other people's bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u40	Budger.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u41	The block of Yulia Timoshenko, Budgerak, Hmelnicki. I served in the internal affairs system for 36 years, an Afghan, which I am proud of. Of course, this system is broken, Vasil Petrovich. What do you think you're doing with the Palace of Culture, where they're still working for the pocket, everything is leased, not a special warehouse? The following question. What will you do when “national self-defence, ” your former party member organizes in Kiev disobedience and other actions, what do you think you are doing, how you are preparing?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u42	Thank you. I'll start with the second question. I am now studying very carefully the experience of France, Switzerland and our legislation, and I assure you, I am addressing all politicians and citizens, in the framework of the law, protest, exercise your right. Outside the law, they say, we'll cover the roads, everything else. Don't flip! I guarantee you order in the country and ask you not to do so, including those politicians who try to do it all, because we have the power to do it legally, I will do it. You want them to organize disobedience there, let them change the law there, I mean colleagues. Thus any citizen, including a politician, must comply with the law. I will strictly demand compliance. It's about the Palace of Culture. Not only, a lot of our property is leased on a square meter bracelet, including in Kiev. I told you in the report, I'm doing inventory, I'm running a register, and I'm bringing it back. They will benefit from these benefits or this hall, those to whom it is set up and in accordance with the law. But please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u43	Yes, Kiselov's handing over Peckshank, please. Paklusenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u44	Pecklusenko, “Region” faction, Zaporozhye region. First of all, we want to thank you for the old man you did in your work, based on professional staff, and I think that the issue of corruption is central. And you have to understand that corruption in your department doesn't start with a sergeant or a lieutenant, it starts with generals and colonels, where you work today. We need to clear this department of wickedness, which is defiled by a high rank. In this regard, we very much ask that you pay attention to the problems, do not paint sticks, do not force people. Now that you're here, the boss is in the 12th, the composition is also in the 12th, because the boss is sitting. We have to work. And the main thing is financing, housing, education. We have enough schools to close down the entire Soviet Union, and we cannot even secure 20 per cent. We very much ask you to stop this personnel policy of crossing generals from area to area. They take more than authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u45	I've stopped this practice. At the expense of the educational institutions, I fully agree with you. I'll bring you the numbers: 59,000. Students are enrolled in educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, of which 33,000 are students. - these are civilians, 26 certified, i.e. in pursuits. The system picks up every year. The Ministry of Internal Affairs employs 3.5 thousand. An exit in one respectable friend to a four-year barracks education system for an officer to leave. And the Academy of Internal Forces confirms that there are real officers coming out of there. And when he's in a barracks from 17 to 18 and then he goes anywhere he wants, that's what they're called in the people and in the militia, you know? - in five weeks. They say he paid 5,000 and you're studying. And you got them. Then we don't get a billionaire. He's been in the barracks for four years, he'll be an officer, he'll get used to discipline, he'll change. That's what I'm gonna do first. After all, I agree with you, and I take it as a wish and I use it at work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u46	Eugene Filindash. Behind him is Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u47	Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction. Sil Petrovich, let's go first. Good luck with your work. Congratulations on starting work, not from the self-piar, but from work as it should be. And I have two questions. First. Given the magnitude of the political activity currently being carried out by the former Minister of Interior Yuri Lucenko and that such infrastructure could hardly have arisen on the spot, did you encounter signs that the Ministry's resources were being used to prepare the basis for Mr. Lucenk's current active political activity? That's the first question. And the second. Please state the status of criminal proceedings against Mr. Bodelan and Mr. Bakay, who are hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u48	I'll start with Bodelano. When we're done, we don't have a search for Bodelano in Interpol. I mean, it was all a pier. It's about Bakaya. The court has suspended his cases, his cases in court. In relation to abuse or financial matters. It works for the CIA. I think that once the work has been completed, all the documents will be sent as sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office and everyone will be responsible for what has been done. I can't personally blame anyone today, but I repeat, the Ministry has been chosen. By DSO. [[State Security Service]] Think about it! More than a billion were made, and the Ministry was credited with 8 million. In 2005, it was privatized in August and 20,000 policemen received 800 bracelets -- these are the incassators, what you see, Titan, running with machine guns, and the rest. And get 800 bracelets. The rest get $3,000 a month minimum and the authorities get $5,000. Okay? I'm returning to state property now. What resistance, for you to know, is happening. Because they privatized the entire remote control, all of it, the entire security service. That's why we're doing this, but to tell you who.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u49	Kilincarov, please. After him, Alexandrovska passes the Mendusa.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u50	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Klinkarov, Communist faction, Lugansk. Vassili Petrovich, I, first of all, wish you success in your difficult post. And the question is, or if you want, that's what I'm asking. You said there's a lot of companies around the Ministry of Internal Affairs around the GAI structures that are bonded and actually making millions of dollars there. I've been writing to your address, in particular at Rikas. So I ask you once again: to deal with these structures, because the situation is this: they're monopolized in GAI structures, they're providing services to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the firm is registered in the city of Kiev. Thus, millions of revenue in budgets are being removed from the regions. So once again, I'm asking you to bring the matter that you started to my logical conclusion. And I think everyone, including in the regions, will be grateful if you can do so. Finally, with regard to rotation of personnel on the ground. I'm also asking you to put it into the system again, and without any requests from the mayor or anyone else who created it, so to speak, corrupt schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u51	I'll start with the second one. I listen to all the requests, but I make the decisions, and I answer them to you. And the militias answer to you because the police orders are given to you, they're called laws. It's about GAI. I confirm you're right. Again, I do not understand why the past management of the Ministry has decentralized the issuance of passports. We can't verify today why, for example, a passport issued in Crimea, a passport, why it's not registered. The answer is: this is called “corruption” in order to register illegal vehicles in order to issue two thousand rights without examinations and so on. My first step is to ensure that these “requests” fall away and so on, centralization, accounting and informationization. But for this with 25 programs that don't come together, I can't. I need time first, money for this. We're on it. And when I turn to information, help, help. Because we were in Russia, they went 15 years ahead, and so did Moldova. And we're standing there because the money allocated for information has been scattered and there's no politics. You have to support the state's approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u52	Please, Alexandrovska gives the word Mendus Yaroslava.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u53	Dear Vassil Petrovich, working on legislation on improving traffic security, I contacted the Ministry of Internal Affairs with an official request and received information. In 2006, more than 4,000 road accidents were hidden, killing 750 and injuring more than 4.5 thousand people. This means that, at the very least, about 5,000 of our citizens who were affected by the accident were unable to obtain compensation through the court for moral, material damage, for the cost of treatment, and so on. What actions are being taken with regard to the setting up of falsifiers, and what measures are being taken regarding them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u54	So I'm confirming because I signed this document for you. And I'll tell you what else I've asked them to start registering all citizens' appeals. We now have a sharp increase in the statistics on treatments and so on. Because the evaluation criterion is first, any citizen must have the right to be a police officer, and it has been registered. If it's registered, then we'll be conducting an investigation, responding to a citizen's claim is the basis. That is why I will not follow the bulk of those who have been exposed. We will, criterion one: what has been brought to trial? These individuals are being examined, and we will again, if this was intended, bring them to criminal responsibility. Because by hiding a dead person, that person can't even get insurance anymore, and so on. It's a mockery of people, specifically. Well, Jaroslav Petrovich, I'll tell you one more thing, and now I'm being reprimanded by personnel changes, so I'm going to liberate the entire internal security force, now vertically, and I'm going to recruit new people. Why? I now have to respond to every publication from the moment I work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u55	It'll be over.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u56	Thank you. For every press release, what journalists write is for every publication on the Internet, if that's official. And I'll tell you that everything, I literally get everything, the monitoring, all I get, the groaning is personally responsible for it, which is known to journalists and you are a person. And you know, reaction. I have an internal security service, I have replaced only one person, it gives – nothing is confirmed. I'm saying, listen, what, the whole holy police? That's what they're doing. Your appeals to MPs, factions, no matter what. You write that abuse, treatment. The police are clear. That's why I'm going to replace them, and I'm going to tell you that's why I'm going to make arrangements. They hide everything, they don't want to react. It's very important, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u57	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, now in accordance with article 235, if I'm not mistaken, the Rules, the Committee, if you please, may speak. They split it into two. It is proposed that the head of the committee on legislative enforcement of parliamentary control of the internal affairs bodies of the Committee on Legislative Protection of the Husarov activities be made available, please. And behind him is the head of the Strtovic committee, three minutes. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u58	The Honourable Head, the Honourable National Deputies, and those present! With limited time, I'm going to stop at just a few moments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Day Reformer. The DAI reform went wrong. Beyond the attention of the reformers, the state has to support 20,000 workers who are unable to perform their duties as a result of the lack of necessary authority. Instead of solving this problem, the system was subjected to an organizational fever. Designed structures, interdisciplinary departments, were created. At the same time, the service management system at the district center level has been destroyed. There were no authorities that organized and secured traffic under the specific conditions of a single street network of large cities. There are no individuals who were personally responsible for this work. The elimination of the city’s city’s parts has led to the inability to respond promptly to reports of road traffic accidents, untimely departures to state inspectors’ adventures, the lack of coordination needed for DAI’s units, urban areas. As a result, road traffic injuries in Ukraine are far ahead of the same figures in most countries. Compared to 2000, the number of accidents increased by more than a third, as did the number of casualties, and almost a half. Traffic continuity is not ensured; traffic has become a constant phenomenon in large cities. What about the decriminalization of theft. Pursuant to article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Tax of Natural Persons, of May 22, 2003, of January 1, 2003. The year of theft or fraud was not a crime, but an administrative offence if the value of the property was not more than 350 dollars. Since January 1, 2006, this amount has already amounted to 525 dollars, and this year it has been 600 dollars. There was an unacceptable situation, on the one hand victims of theft deprived of legal protection. Last year, 185,000 criminal charges were filed and reported stolen. According to this figure, people who have suffered very gravely in terms of their standard of living. Well, I mean, if you give examples, if you steal a bull or a goat or some goose, then the police leave, and there's a decision against a criminal offense. On the other hand, impunity leads to a continuation of criminal activity. Even the thefts that have been caught are still to be won, since sanctions are less likely to cause harm. In addition, this situation has decommissioned the police and has not contributed to the increase in their professionalism. Instead of looking for a thief, it is enough to write a decision to refuse a criminal case. It was the Ministry of Internal Affairs that was supposed to alarm, act on a legislative initiative, protect those average Ukrainians about whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u60	Thank you. This was all about the conditions, because the government and the President before the last election were from one team, but only the Anti-Crist Coalition took practical steps to correct the situation. There's also a bill on the Party of the Regions. As far as the frame is concerned. The previous management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was marked by unprecedented staff cleaning up to the level of the city’s paradises and even to their structural units, the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was affected. There was no need to create different international units, there was duplication of functions, and there was no need. At work, the Ministry's central apparatus has grown. For example, a few years ago, the coordination of the activities of internal affairs agencies in transport was carried out by three employees, now 140. And so - called ministers in the regions appeared. Why are they when the Chief Minister is the Chief of Staff? Without any reason or justification, an experiment has been conducted to eliminate Kharkiv City Administration. His author even ignored the results of earlier similar experiments that were identified as failures. What tasks? As a national MP, I think there's a number of urgent tasks ahead of the IMF.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u61	Yes, thank you. Thank you. Sergey Mikolayovich, you're going to set a specific task for the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u62	I'm done. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u63	Yeah, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u64	I would like to say, Mr. Minister, we support you, both you and your colleague, and our committee will do anything to ensure that we provide you with appropriate laws in due course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Vladimir Mikolajovich Stretović. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u66	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The committee at its meeting on Wednesday discussed the initiative of the anti-crisis coalition to hear the Minister of Internal Affairs about the state of affairs in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. At the same time, we note the situation that was previously imposed by the Staff Policy Ordinance of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which was filed by the People's Deputy Olijnik. Yet it was somehow not supported in the session hall, unheard of, although today we received a partial response to what is happening in the Ministry's office, in the very structure of the staff assignment. However, I would like to express my personal concern that in connection with the conduct of a proportional system, we are sadly politicizing the police. According to sources that are now being published in Ukraine, 60 percent of the seats are provided by the Party of the Regions, 30 socialists, and 10 by the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party. If you look at the structure of the department of the department of interior affairs, you'll see that. You can call it a name, and you know who recommended who and who came from. My point is that article 1 of the Bill of Militia says that the militia is an armed body of executive power. And well - known theatres know that if a rifle is placed on the scene in the first act, it will definitely shoot in the third act. I want to tell you the words of the previous president who said you wouldn't make the election with clean hands. I want to remind you of the words of the former minister, who today in the race to elect a new president, we will drink for three days. On behalf of the committee, I personally warn against police politicization. Militia cannot be drawn into political divisions. The police must, as the minister says, serve the law, only the law, and once again the law. Unfortunately, the committee has a lot of facts that on the spot, I'm paying attention to the minister, the heads of the district departments are being used by the local authorities of district government administrations, district councils to destroy their opponents in entrepreneurial activities. One call is enough to shut down the company, remove the system blocks, get the documentation to make the competitor quit. I'm asking you to pay attention. Next, Adam Ivanovich. That's a state-wide problem. Regrettably, in 90 days of service, the committee, although we now have a parliamentary republic, has not seen him at any time at its meeting. That's the reason. This is an excuse. Because Wednesday's the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to either change the schedule, move the government meetings to the second day, because there are issues that can be solved directly with the minister, see his conceptual vision of what to do. The committee is called law enforcement. And if there's no such contact, if the head of the administration or the deputy minister comes, we won't reach that contact, the whole country will suffer as a result. And the last. Dear colleagues, history is not copied, history is written. So I urge you today to write together the story of the new Ukraine, our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u67	And the people's militia. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. I don't think it's a problem that the government is meeting on Wednesdays. Let's make a deal. The government's been sitting since 10:00, sometimes even since 9:00. By 14 o'clock, the main meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers is over. The committee meeting doesn't start until 15 o'clock. So I'd like to ask the ministers, including Vasil Petrovich, to really find the opportunity and visit the profile committee. There was a time when the committee was sitting, no longer is the Cabinet of Ministers. So let's not let them refer to that here. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? The factions want it. Yeah, what factions? One, I see, insists, two insists, three. Then please sign up from the factions, and let's talk for three minutes. Yes, please, Kamchatny. Unburned to prepare. Oil? Yes, the Turks, please. A Turk. The incompetence prepares.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, you know, the Minister of Internal Affairs has been speaking for quite some time, and we've heard a lot about the activities of his predecessor. Although it seems to me that the issue that has been put into the agenda, it still shows that the main part of the report that we were waiting for from the minister should have been dedicated to the internal affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs right now. It is the minister’s plan to fight, however, to limit crime in Ukraine. How can we still force law enforcement workers to work within the Constitution and within the laws of Ukraine? Sadly, I can honestly say that 90 percent was dedicated to the forerunner. And I'd like to talk to the minister while he's still sitting here, and to colleagues from other power structures. You know, it's a good way to criticize the predecessors. But it seems to me not to be like the predecessors, yes, criticism must be solely a legal language. I mean, there are crimes, please, on the right. And then you go to court, argue, explain, blame, and so forth. Once again, it seems to me that it is neither the past nor the official minister of the interior. It is, dear colleagues, that I think the Supreme Council should be primarily interested in ensuring the rule of law and protecting our citizens. And that's exactly what I'm saying, again, I didn't hear anything else, honestly. It's sad, but it is. So, dear colleagues, I agree with Mr. Stetovich, who said that anything is possible in political relations, everything, within the framework of the law and the Constitution. The only thing we shouldn't do is not go back and again build a foundation like the politicization of power structures. It's the most dangerous thing, dear colleagues. The politicization of power structures is dangerous. Because this is the path that leads to serious political crises. This is the path that leads to serious civil shocks. As far as I'm concerned, dear colleagues, you know, there's been a lot of tests. There was an attempt and fabrication and something to invent, but nothing worked out, so I think everyone should be responsible for their work, for their activities, and all the issues related to criminal crimes should be resolved according to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u69	Please, Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Incorruptible, Our Ukraine. What's positive? Well, the minister's positive attitude towards cooperation with Parliament. Positively, he gave his report in good Ukrainian and I already, in a sinful way, thought that perhaps the coalition would call off its series of laws against Ukrainian language, which it overloaded yesterday's agenda for the day's session, and that is, consider that there is no time in the coalition to consider the President's well-founded proposals and deputies for minimum wage and pension in line with the subsistence minimum. In general, I think it's premature, but some trends need to be stopped now. Much of the report, the Minister's information was on personnel issues, and since we're not yet making general conclusions, I'd like to stop at 2 specific frames. The first shot is Plihanov, who bullied the students, beat them. I understand he's actually in the matter of which side he's on, which side he's on. I don't think he belongs in the police force. The second shot, this is Popkov, who is now the deputy minister who was handing out bullets when Tsushko was still standing on Maidan, on the other side stood. And gave the command about the bullets. “Our Ukraine” requires the resignation of these two deputy ministers, and this will be a specific staff matter. In fact, after the reaction of the People of the Region Party, I feel so that it's hardly a personal decision of the Minister, because he would never, of course, have appointed such people as his substitutes. And we doubt his independence, and therefore, again, by referring to the minister's thesis on closed stock associations, we are very concerned that the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not turn into a closed stock company “Party of the Regions”. It's a dangerous trend, but it's kind of ripening. And you can see from their position. Now one more particular thing, because the truth is always concrete, and the work is done on specific subjects, not on the artistic whistle, there, on the heat of space, or on the ploughing of predecessors. Now I would like to say a few words on one particular matter. On December 7th, Kyivrad was beaten, in particular, well, by members of the Kiyevrada Naumek and Briginz from the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The interim commission of inquiry addressed a letter, and I am now again addressing the minister, asking him to investigate the case for his own personal control, so that he can still be investigated and be held responsible for the relevant legislation, i.e. they were, I think, a prison – it will be the very place for them to rest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u71	Ivan Boki, please. After him, Gretzak gives the word Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I think today we have heard the speech of the Minister of Internal Affairs, a man who feels personally responsible for the matter entrusted to him. And we, the socialists, I think we have the opportunity, well, if we're not proud, to be content with the fact that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has finally received a worthy minister and a man who will not get away with honesty, truth and justice. I think that the report that we have heard today is worth publishing in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine because it has an important and political and professional significance in order for the system of internal affairs to feel that it has a serious recovery ahead of it. It's about personnel policy. We all well understand that both the new minister man and his fellow humans and mistakes can be. But it is good that Vasil Petrovich felt the greatest weakness in the internal security system. Until recently, she had been led by a well - known anecdote. But one thing is to speak well of anecdotes, and another is to manage the sphere that should serve as an order in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. And what Vasil Petrovich said today is that this area is going to be seriously reformed and essentially updated is exactly what is needed. I know well that the previous minister of the interior did not really want to change this field and chose people according to the principle of personal loyalty or personal loyalty. I think there should be another criterion here, and without this service being seriously strengthened, there will be no change in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm not happy to talk about the accusations that have been made here regarding the calculation of the predecessor. I think Vasil Petrovich never called his predecessor's name, but when he spoke of his previous leadership, he was referring, of course, not only to the minister, but also to his deputies. And I don't think there should be any questions here, no calculations, no calculations. We need to set the order. And the numbers we've heard, they're amazing. Those losses, the abuses that have been committed in such a short period of time, will lead to serious meditation and serious action. And we wish Vasil Petrovich in this matter of firmness and consistency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I offer to work without interruption, but for half an hour before then, we will conclude the meeting. No objections? Okay, thanks. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, we have just heard the information of the Minister of the Interior, Tsushko Vasili Petrovic, and according to the objectivity of the information, it should be said that Vasili Petrovic is a very courageous, very brave, crystal clean and public man. I think that with us in the Ministry of the Interior, we will work together, because this is a matter of honour for both the Minister and the Parliament. Dear friends! I think that in order for society to know the limit that was created in the Ministry in 2005 and in the sixth year, it must be as informed as possible. I fully support the previous speaker's proposal that a full report by the Minister of the Interior be published in the next Voice of Ukraine. We will believe that, as of today, the Ministry of the Interior will be cleared of the impunity and the dirt that was in 2005 and 2006 from the publication of objective information, bold information, courageous information, and courageous information from the Minister of the Interior about the situation in the system. I propose that the full information of the Minister of the Interior, Tsushka Vasilija Petrovic, be published in the Parliamentary newspaper Voska Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u75	Yes, all those who wanted to speak. Please, the Minister's closing statement. Vasil Petrovich, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u76	Dear friends, I'll start with what you've been criticizing. And I am addressing my colleague Turkinov, who has experience in his work, for a short time, but for about a year, in the law enforcement structure, more specifically in the competent structures, I address and apologize to the chairman of the Committee, I couldn't Wednesday, I delayed my work in Kabmin, I was late, before the committee members, I couldn't come to you on a committee. And I want to not waste time, because right now I'm not going to tell you the whole program, I'm going to write to the two committees that we're working with, specifically, and to the head of Parliament, our programme of work. I'll tell you what we've done now, we're doing it. I've given orders now and we've secured every district police hotel behind every orphanage behind every shelter. Why? So that we don't make these kids potential militia clients after that, we're dealing with child crime. I've written letters to every head of local government asking for space. Because the police will take him off the street, where will they take him? So that's what we do. We are currently working on social security personnel, creating a social passport for each individual, every employee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and every veteran. To let us know that the worker, for example, had a child with disabilities, and so on. We now want to launch a social protection programme through an increase in remuneration for junior, middle and real housing. Next, I'm going to give you an example, a wild case, an example of a technical service officer who carried out the tasks in 2003, well, by setting up the technicians, and so on, being sent by a major, he's being killed. Since 2003, he has won his wife 18 courts, his son 10 years old and has not been paid, and has not been compensated. At my first reception, I decided on this issue. I mean, we need to sneak in, get to everyone in person. Because I rewarded the Afghans. It is a shame when people came from all over Ukraine, and it has no form to dress. To look at this form, yes, it's clean, washed, ironed, but it's seven or eight years old, and he's a police major, Afghan. I'm doing this, believe me, I'm investing in this soul. And I'm not going to make a pear on the police. And I assure you, you'll never hear Tsuko get into some kind of business structure or some kind of copier somewhere. I assure you. If I'm still asking you, distinguished people's deputies, to let me know from below about the 300,000 people's militia, I'm not following everyone. I'll have information that's objective, that's inconclusive, that's what I'm going to do. And last but not least, in the case of the beating of MPs. You know, any investigator, any minister can burn up in a case and break things up between deputies. Fellow MPs at all levels, please don't yell. Huh? Respect democracy, don't yell, we won't get along very well. But on a case-by-case basis, I will be helping Boris Pavlovich as chairman of the commission to get out and figure it out. Let's abide by the laws. If they don't fit, change, and we'll do it. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u77	Thank you. Honorable colleagues who want to sign up for the minister’s voluntary assistants and inform him of what they are doing on the spot. But if seriously, really, I think we've done the right thing with you, and it's worth continuing the practice that ministers whose jobs are. and the services that have a special interest in society, periodically came to Parliament, publicly informed about the situation in their offices, so that we could ask questions. And if necessary, either help, or correct a minister with you and me, because Parliament is already responsible for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, for executive power, so that we can work together in this direction and keep order. Dear colleagues, you have the right to make any proposals, to make them and so forth. I'll allow myself to be told. I would not be overly critical of those who carry out their duties. If those who were then serving in the internal affairs offices, including some positions, and they were performing their duties without breaking the law, we should thank such ones and thank the minister for having them involved in the work. Because if high - ranking workers break the law and prepare as they say, during the orange events, newspapers wrote that some tanks wanted to be brought here already, it did not indicate a duty but a breach of an oath. So let us treat it calmly and normally, and rejoice in the work of professionals who do not break their vows, regardless of the political winds. On the proposal to publish information in the “Voice of Ukraine”. I think it's a fair offer, and I'd like to support it, and that's why I'm putting it to a vote. Who is it that the information of Interior Minister Vasil Petrovich Zushko about the situation in revenge, that is, what we have heard with you, has been published in our printed body of the Supreme Council “The Voices of Ukraine”. Please vote. [[12:08:25]] For 243 Thank you. Thus, we accept the Minister's information to the knowledge, the publication in the Voice of Ukraine to provide. The factions? It's understandable who wants information. Let's go to the factions and let the audience hear it. Region Party – 182, Block Timoshenko – 6, Our Ukraine – 1, Socialists – 29, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 5. Once again, let us thank Vasil Petrovich for the information. We wish him perseverance in fulfilling the obligations he has made today. We're working on it. No, we agreed to a break. We'll do it 30 minutes early. We'll finish the session. We need to include in the agenda and make a decision on the decision to recognize the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rulings as having become invalid and to withdraw from the draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conduct of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's "Government Day", registration number 3213. Please vote. [[12:09:45]] For 227 Decision taken. What are you talking about, fellow officers of honor? The point is that you and I have adopted the law on the Cabinet of Ministers. The law on the Cabinet of Ministers. If you don't mind, I'm going now, if you don't mind, we're going to vote because we have a little bit of pressure. The Law on the Cabinet of Ministers says that on the day of the plenary meetings, i.e. every plenary week, we have an hour of questions to the government and accordingly there will be no days of government that we spent once a month. That is why we need to bring our Rules into line with the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. And I would like to support the ruling number 3213, the essence of which is that on the day of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, every week, we should take time to question the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, hour of questions from the Government, assign the Rules Committee to make appropriate changes and develop an order for these hours of government, and acknowledge that they have lost the validity of the Supreme Council's decision to spend the next days of government, because they will no longer be. I'm voting on the order number 3213. Please be supportive. Vote. We vote in favour of an interesting form of government work. [[12:11:17]] For 243 Thank you. It's been decided. To review the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, yesterday we discussed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the National Bank of Ukraine Act with the President's proposals and decided to entrust the committee with further work. Thanks to the committee that worked quickly, the law has been revised. Please, who's from the committee? Where's Dusty? Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u78	Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Well, the committee, indeed, was forced to comply with the Supreme Council's decision in an extremely tight time to draft a bill with the President's proposals. The committee had to hold its meetings through a survey and a decision was taken, with 15 members of the committee participating in the meeting expressing their support, 1 opposed to proposing to the Supreme Council the next version of the bill. I would like to remind you that the President has made 4 comments on changes to the National Bank Act. And in order not to get into opposition, try to find compromise, the committee proposes to the Supreme Council, after the President's first amendment, which was not supported in the Supreme Council yesterday, to do the following. Remove from the bill part two of article 10, which regulates the qualifications requirements for members of the National Bank Board, which caused this opposition, leaving the regulation in place. The rest of the bill's articles are in full scope to support the President's proposals. In this way, you will be asked to vote on the revised version of the Act on Amendment to the National Bank Act No Change in Part Two of Article 10. All the rest will have to be settled in the shortest term by a separate bill. In order not to interfere with the legislative settlement of the rest of the positions that the proposed bill regulates. The committee, as I told you, made this decision through a survey. And I'd like to support that, because we need it for March of the month. The National Bank needs these weights to regulate the financial market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u79	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. But do not advertise illegal measures. You can't ask questions. It's still kind of, you know, kind of interesting, but. Check it out. Yes, Arjovitin, please, one minute and we'll be clear. Three minutes? Please, 3 minutes of Arjevetin at Bespalong's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u80	Thank you. Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again. Yesterday we decided to send these initiatives to the committee to work on the veto. This morning, we received proposals that did not contain an examination of the President's proposal. So I propose not to support these initiatives, because they did not really consider yesterday's Presidential proposal that we accepted here for work. That's the first one. The other one. What is written here is that I would like the transcript to be recorded, in part ten, to be recorded, in view of the fact that the standard proposed here is significantly exacerbating the requirements for the members of the National Bank’s Supervisory Board. [[That's what was given to us today.]] And I propose after the words, "or he has experience," to replace it with the words, "and he has experience at that." At the same time, I propose to include in the word “experience” “not less than 5 years” in management positions and in the word “in the banking institution” so that there is no double interpretation, it has been written: “in charge of the banking institution”. Thank you very much for not supporting today’s initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u81	Stanislav, you can't understand. You make wise suggestions and ask them not to support them. Okay. Exchanged thoughts. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, which is based on the fact that the committee agrees with all the President's proposals and deletes part two of article 10. Act number 1039 in the new edition. Please vote. [[12:16:44]] For 241 Thank you. Act accepted. The factions. Region Party – 183, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 0, and so aggrieved; Socialists – 27, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Work" with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 2045. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council. Please get Harry ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 22, last year, which is under review, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine, for which the President directed his proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The president's main remarks are that the amendments to articles 18 and 22 of the law that came upon the signature, which gave the special insurance fund the right to create educational information centres, which are legal persons and have self-sustaining resources. This is what the President believes can cause a significant and uncontrolled increase in the administrative costs of this fund, the spending of insured persons not on adequate compensation in the event of an injury or an accident on production, but on the maintenance of the structures identified by the fund. Accordingly, specific proposals have been made by the President to take account of these concerns, as expressed by the President in his proposals. As far as I know, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour has agreed to such proposals by the President and proposes to enact legislation in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u83	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Hara Vasil Georgiyovich, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour has considered the President's comments on the bill, of course, expressed its regret that in our view it would be necessary to establish a training and information centre for disabled persons who become disabled at work. And the second by publishing company, which publishes methods and other literature on its own. But given that the main grain of this law remains, thank God, the Committee therefore proposes to accept the President's proposals and to enact the law as a whole in a new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, it's down to, really, yes. Although 2 notes, they apply to one point. One and the other articles suggested that the fund had the right to create educational information centres. The president is proposing to remove it. The committee agrees. I had a conversation with the Ministry of Social Policy yesterday, and they also agree, and they say we have to take it quickly, because there are problems with applying this law. We need to do this as soon as possible. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Employment, taking into account the President's proposals. [[No. 2045]] Please vote. For the President. And today, let's do it. Please support our Ukraine. [[12:21:23]] For 298 Thank you. The law is passed. The factions? Please. 186. Exactly 2 wasn't enough to 300. Areas. Block Timoshenko – 26, “Our Ukraine” – 41, Socialists – 30, Communists – 19, non-fractional – 6. Yes, let us move on to the chapter “To make a decision on the issues under discussion”. A draft regulation on the state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social, legal and moral protection of war veterans is under consideration. Registration number 3143, 3143-1. We listen to the voice of Zybenko, who asked us to support this decision on the Day of Fatherland’s Protector. Please, Peter Stepanovich. Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u86	Thank you, dear colleagues. Thank you, dear Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The first thing I would like to do from this rostrum is to thank the anti-crisis coalition, particularly the faction of the Ukrainian Company, which initiated the government's Day on this issue. From the question of the state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social and legal and moral protection of war veterans. I think it's clear to everyone what is causing this debate on Government Day, because the youngest participants in the Great Homeland War, the fighting, the disabled of war today in 80, can't wait, and that's why we've been looking for social protection mechanisms, social support for these people. With regard to the draft decision presented by the committee. We worked hard on the speeches and suggestions made by the deputies on Government Day. Of course, all of us could not count them, for they were very often mutually exclusive. However, most of the proposals are taken into account. In particular, I would like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco for the proposals that were taken into account, the Communist faction representative Valentin Grigorovovich Matviev, Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolayovich, who made the proposals, and they are included in the draft regulation. But I would stress that not all of the proposals are taken into account, because they were mutually exclusive. One more. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the committee was unable to consider an alternative draft decision because the last meeting of the committee was February 21st and an alternative project of the 20th was registered. He did not come to the committee at the time of the last meeting of the committee. But I would like to express some reflection on the content of this document. First. I am pleased that the representatives who prepared the alternative draft regulation carefully rewritten the operative part of the ruling by changing the positive sign to a negative. And two things that fundamentally distinguish the alternative design of the decision. My distinguished colleagues in this case suggest that for all the shortcomings that have allowed the two orange previous governments to recognize the work of this government, today’s government is unsatisfactory. And the second principle that distinguishes this determination is that it's proposed in different ways to rehabilitate UN-OPA soldiers and compare them to participants in combat. In particular, it is proposed to support all illegal decisions that the districts of the Western Council region have introduced aids for participants, for UN veterans, for UPA. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to vote as carefully as possible on this issue, it's about what I'd like to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u87	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Lilia Grigorovitch, please. Bill number 3143-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u88	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, first of all, I would like, indeed, to welcome everyone who celebrates, celebrates the day of the defender's fatherly, completely honest and objective talk about the protection of the defenders of the country. Just now, there was a applause for the fact that there was a government that actually heard about social issues. Moral and legal protection. Well, congratulations, dear friends, the government won't be around for days. So it was the last round of applause, the last day of the government, who was thoroughly studying the issue of protection, in this case, the defenders of the country. Honorable colleagues, but now in substance both social and moral and legal. First of all, I want to remind you that more than two years ago, we celebrated the 60th anniversary of World War II. And serious draft regulations have been adopted, which are pending implementation with regard to, tiredness, and budgeting for the veterans of the Great Homeland War. So another covert fact that today, on the day of the defender of the country, has to be reported from this high rostrum. The 2007 budget has stopped a number of articles on the execution of the decree marking the 60th anniversary of the Great Homeland War, on the provision of medicine, dental care, utilities and so on. And in our determination, we point out that these things need to be restored. If after that you feel that the government has made enough good social protection for the veterans of the Great Homeland War, please vote. But we think they've gotten worse, the social protection of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. And in view of that, we say that work rules the unsatisfying. If you think you're taking the budget benefits, you're making yourself happy. Please vote, but the country's defenders can hear us today. Now a little bit about morals. Dear friends, it's no secret: both those who don't love and recognize this state and those who love and recognize this state and all together -- 450 in this bed and others in the government bed, and in Gruszewski, and in the Banking Hall sit in the status of national deputies and other government officials because there was a Ukrainian rebel army that fought against fascist invaders who fought for Ukraine's independence from the 41st to the 44th. And why were we moved to make changes to this decision? Because all of a sudden, the Attorney General's Office was tempted to review the decision of the local self-government that recognized them, let's say, in the western areas of Ukraine. Well, can you do that? And that's moral? Shame. Absolutely immoral. And finally, at a time when the President of Estonia forbade the monument to a liberator warrior, the rulings in this project came up before banning a famine monument in Slava Park. People are good! What are you two tragedies up against? This is our glory and our torment. At first, they fell in 32-33 innocently alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u89	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u90	So I would very much like, in a moral sense, not to frame historical events and participants, because this is our story, and we should be proud of this story. That is why I propose to support our draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed the matter on Government Day, and today you have heard proposals for a ruling. From that day of government, which unfortunately, or fortunately, was the last of us. Unfortunately, because it's a good form, and fortunately, maybe because you've seen that on MP's Day. I was just the initiator of Government Day, and you and I were very and very few, and we turned these days into formality. And we'll work with the government hours -- let's see. We have two bills, so I'll put them to the vote. It is up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on the social and legal and moral protection of war veterans. [[Registration number 3143]] The committee's decision. Please vote. [[12:30:19.]] For 235 It's been decided. Thank you. If we had done it by at least 50%, it would really be a good gift to our veterans, especially on such a day. Then we have the section “In summary procedure”. I ask you to support the proposal so that the following questions can be considered under the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:30:59]] For 235 Decision taken. There is a bill of amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the approval of passports for Ukrainian citizens and birth certificates. [[Registration number 3033]] Gritzak Vasil Mikolaiovich, please. I'll get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u92	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, the draft of this decree is designed for the further implementation of political reform provisions, the distribution of powers between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, the promotion of international contacts between Ukrainian citizens, Ukraine's commitment to combat international terrorism, and compliance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization, which are binding on Ukraine as a member of this organization. The draft decision of the Supreme Council was also designed to ensure a single state policy on the issue of population passporting and settlement of legal collegiates in Ukrainian legislation. It should be noted that in 2006 Ukrainian passports are being distributed and issued to citizens abroad, which do not correspond to the technology established by the government. So it's actually fake. More than 100,000 copies of these passports have been issued. There have been many cases of banning citizens from crossing the borders of other countries because of the inadequacy of a Ukrainian citizen's passport to go abroad with a sample officially sent to the relevant authorities of the world. The previous government of Yuri Yehanurov, understanding the urgency of the situation, sent draft decrees to the President twice during 2006, which were supposed to eliminate the problem, but no answer had been received until now. Victor Fedorovich Janukovic's new government is actively engaged in this problem, and draft relevant legislation has been developed, but because of the uncertainty of decision-making time, decisions are constantly being extended. On the basis of the above, please support the Supreme Council's Draft Order on Amendments to the 2002 Supreme Council Order on Approval of Passport Regulations for Ukrainian Citizens and Certificate of Birth. The implementation of this decree does not require additional expenditure from the state budget. The main scientific and expert administration does not deny the adoption of this decision. And all the things that you've heard in the speech of the Minister of Interior today, what's happening in GAI, the same thing is happening in the passport system, today the government can't influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u93	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u94	In 2002, it is said that the passport position is approved by the President's decree, not by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u95	Thank you. Vasil Mikolaiovich, briefly, so we have one passport, so I understand there will be no foreign passports?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u96	No, it's not. While he's still abroad, there'll be one more passport. The problem is that this passport today does not even match the decree and does not match the approved one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u97	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u98	He's having a rough break today. And the government can't do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u99	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Gnatkewicz is the head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for not looking at him late last night as it was supposed to be, because I was worried, and the deputy was not an owl, and the spring had not yet come, and the light was not yet. We're going to say no because it has 5 contradictions. The author suggests that the status of a passport to go abroad, a diplomatic passport, a business passport, a identity card, a sailor, and a child’s travel document be approved, not by the President, but by Kabmin. However, he now proposes to approve a passport for departure abroad by the Supreme Council, that is, right now. The second contradiction. There is now a valid presidential decree on the passport of a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad from 28.10. In 1993 This decision cannot be overturned; it cannot be overturned by both Leonid Krawchuk and Yushchenko is unlikely to want to cancel it. Two normative acts will enter into conflict and conflict. The third contradiction. The President's orders approved not only a passport to go abroad, but other documents, diplomatic, service. And the author of the draft decree only separates a passport to go abroad. The fourth contradiction. The Supreme Council adopted the National Demographic Register Act in its first reading two months ago. There is a chapter called “Documents that support Ukrainian citizenship” and there is article 20, whose normative positions are actually duplicated by the proposed regulation, which in this way becomes an alternative to the draft Civil Registry Act. The fifth contradiction. The author writes that the introduction of a regulation does not require additional budgetary costs. But there is very little belief in that. Dear colleagues, I remember in my first call, where I was a deputy, we approved a passport. This approval was very ideological: some wanted to bring nationality there, others refused to make a Russian page, others refused to put tridents on the cover. And now, and this has been discussed in our committee, this question is commercialized. There's purchased equipment. He's got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u101	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u102	This equipment is invested in capital. It's standing in Bortnich and it can't rust, it has to reproduce, accumulate and concentrate capital. The capital, Marx said, doesn't like jokes. The main conclusion of the committee. This issue needs to be normalized legislatively and comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Have a seat. Is there a wish? Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, Green, red.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u104	They do. It's going to be different. Yes, Bespaly, please. It's weak. Who? Carpupuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u105	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich is indeed referring to the commercialization of the matter, because only yesterday was Bill 3030 brought into the agenda, to the message of the day, and today it is being considered, it is being considered quite quickly. And despite the fact that there are a number of objections, there are both scientific and expert administrations, and I think there are well-founded recommendations from the committee. Therefore, the faction “Our Ukraine” will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u106	Thank you. We really included it yesterday, but it was not related to each other, since yesterday there were 22, 21 committees that considered it and recommended that we consider it. Quickly, please, from the place microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. A fast, socialist faction. Dear colleagues! You and I have already considered the passport bill in the first reading. It is today, it is working. Let's do everything in a complex way. If we're going to take separate steps to do this, by our determinations and so forth, then we're going to create some sort of vacchanal, sorry about that word, in this matter. So we need to take a comprehensive look at this problem, add to the first reading that's already been done, taking into account what's now there. I really support the idea that this needs to be passed on to Kabmin now in order to be in a new environment, because it's not a matter of representative power in the President's person to deal with these issues, let the executive body deal with this. It really is. But everything needs to be settled in one document. We still need to figure out what passport we have, which is a civil passport, which is a foreign passport, which is an official passport, which is his mother's passport, these passports. Because it's still like this, you know, some level decides who wants to. If we do so in the form of a law, we will then be governed by this law and will not have to make any further additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u108	The discussion is concluded, Your Honor. In fact, there's a proposal that I'm supporting here, Vitalia Sibko, I know that, literally, it's in the approach of the draft law that the Cabinet of Ministers is developing on the foreign passport of a Ukrainian citizen. We're there on the foreign diplomatic side, we're regulating the law, and this is about the ruling. I am voting on the Order to Amend the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Approval of Passport Regulations for Ukrainian Citizens and the Certificate of Birth. Registration number 3033. Please vote. [[12:40:25]] For 233 Thank you. Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, we've already taken what we could, so we're moving on to the "Virgin" right now. Please sign up who wants to take it. Yes, please take an hour. Please, Mikola Sivuliski. Get ready for Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u109	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, there is no more pressing issue than the question of prices and tariffs for utilities. Everyone in Ukraine today, having received relevant documents, receipts, felt the relevance of the problem. And believe me, we all understand that the reason is that we're up here, the central authorities have completely lost control of the situation, throwing the problem down, forgetting to say that everything is being solved here in the center. That is, the method of determining the size of payments is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the question is, why haven't the Cabinet of Ministers been able to get their hands on why this method allows you to include things from which the hair gets deep in the prosecutor's office, especially lawsuits against everyone, whether we pay or not. Why are the investment components involved? They're going at the expense of the citizens to upgrade the utility systems, the networks. Everything's fine. But why is it done at the expense of citizens? Why are other resources not being sought if budget resources are not sufficient? The government in this direction is completely inactive and washes its hands, sneezing at local authorities. The second question I'd like to focus on. Why hasn't the Cabinet of Ministers resolved decrees 605 and 1697 until now? They're the ones that determine the prices of gas at which gas is released to the population. Thus, if we look at the root of the problem, we find that these decisions are based on the principle of violation of the constitutional rights of citizens. Because according to article 24, in particular parts of the second article, the Constitution does not discriminate against citizens on one or the other. We've introduced a new sign: differentiation by level of consumption. Note, however, that if a citizen consumes more than 12,000 cubic metres, he will pay a price higher than that paid by France or Germany for the import of Russian gas, $232. That's how the price is set for our citizens. I ask, is the price purchased abroad like this? Aren't these our citizens? How can we approach him like that? Or another example of specific ones. Why, if a part of the population lives in a large apartment building, where they are disconnected from centralized heating and have individual heating but a few citizens for lack of funds or other reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u110	Borszewski will pass it on to Cibenka, please. Mutz says get acid ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, the week to be completed has proved to be extremely complex and intense in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The political forces that formed the anti-crisis coalition had to fight on two fronts, as it were. On the one hand, by implementing the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in this way protecting Ukrainian citizens, on the other, by trying to stop our local Mojakheds, the Botanical Strait, which have resorted to acts of State terrorism, particularly the capture of electricity. This was done in order to paralyze the work of the Supreme Council in this way, in a deliberate way, to find any basis for a permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council. Fortunately, they failed. I would like to stress once again that this banditry has nothing to do with democracy or political struggle. It's a clean water crime, a reaction to which, everywhere and always, there must be one -- attraction to criminal responsibility. Now, let's talk about why this is happening. A version of the crime initiators: we protect people from uncontrolled price and tariff increases. It's a myth, in fact, this political power, it's stalled. To their profound conviction, a win - free game. At first, they raised tariffs at all levels by the votes of their deputies, and now they are initiating the annulment of their decisions. This was confirmed by yesterday's session across the Orange Lion City Council, which refused to lower housing and utility tariffs. But that is not all. I will draw attention to what is the real, real reason for this behavior of the members of the fighting party. On Tuesday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the initiative of the Communist faction, set up an investigative commission to investigate the rationale for price and tariff increases and gas. And this commission is tasked, including examining the legality of the court’s decision to pay off seven and a half billion tax debts to EESU. Whoever is behind this commercial structure is aware not only of the MPs, but of the electorate, and why the court took this decision – also clearly, the designated person at the time was the Prime Minister of Ukraine. That's where real and not mythical causes of Booth sabotage are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u112	Vasil Kiselov, please. That's it. Now I'll see. suggests that Arjevetina prepare. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u113	An open letter to William Taylor, an extremely authorized ambassador of the United States of America. “Dear Ambassador! The Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken a decision to entrust the Interim Investigation Commission with identifying the reasons for the increase in energy supplies that have adversely affected housing and utility tariffs. At the same time, the commission is charged with verifying the financial and economic activities of the Ukrainian Gas Resource Consortium and the write-off of the debts of the EESU Corporation. At the same time, a number of information sources reported that Ukrainian citizen Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyryn was held in the U.S. District Court, D.C., in a case involving ex - prime minister of Ukraine, Lazarenko Pavel Ivanovich, who is currently serving a sentence in the United States according to an American court ruling. It is widely known that the EESU Corporation was present in the Lazarus case. Please provide official information on this subject. Add-on in nine sheets. From the faction of the Kyselov Region Party, from the Baraniovski PPU and Kravchenko PPU. And the second. When a riot arises in the dust of parliamentary debates, it is understandable, but it cannot be understood or forgiven when members of the people enter the office, tossing out employees without allowing the leadership to report what has happened. This suggests that the opposition has crossed the line. And there is a real risk of provocations with severe consequences, because people with weapons are known to enter the Supreme Council building. We ask the President of Ukraine to commit the Ukrainian State Security Service, which is subject only to him, to order this matter. And thirdly, the other factions and I attended the Conciliation Council yesterday, where we agreed that we were going down to the session hall, we are setting up a conciliatory commission, which of the two tariff projects, Suhigo, which he submitted four months ago, and Timoshenko, which she submitted on 19 February, we are producing one and submitting it for consideration. But as soon as we went down to the hall, those who had just agreed to let the team break into the power room and decommission the hall and get the voting system out of order. This suggests that it is impossible to negotiate with the opposition. I therefore propose, during the next ballot, that Tomenko Nikolay Vladimirovic, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be released from office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u114	Please, Argewityn Stanislav. After him, Tarasov gives the word to Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u115	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. In view of the fact that the Antichrist Coalition was not included in the agenda yesterday, none of the issues related to the heroes and soldiers of UN UPA, I have been asked to comment on the faction’s position regarding the recognition of UPA soldiers as participants in the fighting in World War II. Unfortunately, to date, it has been unsolvable, as many years in a row, a very painful problem for Ukrainian society to recognize as participants in the fights of the UPA fighters, who during the years of World War II and post-war fought a national-liberal struggle of the Ukrainian people for the formation of a Ukrainian independent state. On November 6, last year, the Zacarpathian shell in its session recognized UPA as a warring party in World War II and its veterans as fighters for Ukraine's will and independence. On December 20, members of the Hmelna District Council voted in favour of the recognition of UPA soldiers as participants in the liberation races for the Ukrainian State. And here's the terrible parallel, the same day, on December 20, 2006, in Kharkiv Youth Park, unknown vandals were destroyed by heavy technology -- the UPA Stone, which was installed by Kharkiv People's Movement in the fall of 92 on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the creation of the UPA. Today, UPA soldiers are recognized in eight areas of Ukraine: Lvivska, Ivano-Frankivska, Ternopilska, Volinska, Zakarpatska, Ravenska, Cherniewecka, Hmelnicka. This decision is another strong confirmation for the Supreme Council of the need to solve the problem of the recognition of UPA soldiers as fighters for Ukraine's will at the national level. The “Our Ukraine” faction reminds us that in the countries of the European Community, to which Ukraine has declared its foreign policy course a similar problem by granting equal rights and social security to all veterans of World War II. In which we invite the Supreme Council to consider granting UPA soldiers the status of World War II veterans and participants in hostilities. UPA soldiers deserve the respect of the state and the immortal heroic memory of fellow countrymen. It is no coincidence that in Ukraine the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks and Soldiers of UPA is celebrated on the same day on October 14th on the Day of Holy Cover. We also require the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to file a criminal case based on vandalism in Kharkiv’s youth park regarding the UPA Fireplace Memorial, which took place on December 20, 2006. We honor our heroes who live among us and remember those who are no longer with us, who fought against both the Fascisms, both brown and red. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the heroes of UPA! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u116	John Bockey, please, six minutes, because he's giving him three minutes of his time. Korj gave the word to Terrena to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u117	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters, citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I am the head of the Socialist faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, John Boki, primarily of the conscious part of the Ukrainian people. I know from your calls, from talking to ordinary people, that you find it difficult to understand what is happening today in the Supreme Council and in Ukraine. Let me put it briefly and clearly as it is, you know, never lied to you. In Ukraine, an anticonstitutional, anti-State rebellion begins and is carried out by Julia Timoshenko and hers. Under the patronage of the President of Ukraine. The goal was to launch the chosen Supreme Council and to enthrone the tongue, but free of charge, which proved to be a worthless premiere with four crises and a conceited adventurer. That's why they're like bandits from around the corner attacking and taking out the lights of the Supreme Council. For this reason, the President of Ukraine is sending to you his Cossacks Lucenka and Steckova, who are capable of talking and talking, but as has been shown by practice, they are unable to do either one of the strong state deeds that Vasil Tsushka's information has proved to be true today. For this reason, they raise from the political graves the Pygmie Party of the Permanent Service, Kuchma, Yushchenka, and others, who organize the Pharisaic self - defense, exhibit the well - known Provoker of Korchinsky, etc. Without a doubt, the honourable electorate, who will be under his chief cleric's command, inspires the current hooliganic exit of the “stacks from the pastel” near the electrified Supreme Council. Why did they get so excited? Why did they rush and rush to take advantage of the difficult situation in the state they created? It is not a secret that the gas situation was provoked by Yushchenko and Timoshenko. The president was the first to propose to Russia to move to market price and the free ex-premier to break the contractual base with the same Russia by gas. In the early days following the parliamentary elections, the government of Yehanurov opened locks last year to raise housing and utilities tariffs. Now it's all coming down to the coalition and today's government. And the tongue, as you can see, doesn't make them smile, and they lie to you like a crazy cockroach in the market. So why did they get excited? Because we have a coalition and a government. Many of us did not promise and work in the sweat of our foreheads, while they, by stealing from us socialists our well - known tariffs and social pay offers, voted and voted on the stands of television and rallying. The difference, as you can see, is great. We work and we vote, and they vote. And we're doing it again. Since April 1st, there will be substantial increases in wages and pensions in Ukraine. The economy has finally worked and the necessary funds have been piled up, and we can raise wages and pensions by much more than Timoshenko and Yushchenko said. A base for lowering housing tariffs and utilities is being created. And it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's scary, and it's really scary, and it's really scary, and it's really scary, and it's really scary, and it's really scary, and it's really scary, and it's the lady who's putting out on the broom of lies and manipulation by people, and it's the President, who at all intersections fantasizes about an imperfect constitution to bury political reform, to get round up from the road to Europe on the road to whatever Asian monarchy he likes in pseudo-democratic dress. I would like to remind you that serious presidents don't fight the constitutions. But two years after the election, who can take our President seriously? All he'd have to do is menstruate and teach. This is the reason why the lies of Yuli, Jura, and Tarasiki ran and sowed to lead the deluded people to Kiev. That is why they earnestly seek support from those who do not understand what is happening, and that is why a well - known adventurer and arrogant poacher plans to move to Washington. They're afraid to lose their chance to take power because in Moroz, Yanukovich is going to bring Ukraine back to the road of construction from the dead end of the ruins led by her current demagogues and candidates to the Pope. And we, the socialists, tell you honestly and directly, it's up to you, dear Ukrainians, whether we're going to build a normal life, make normal wages and pensions, or listen to the tongues of eagles, talk and discipline, tap your ears and palms, and go to raves and empty walks, pray on loud prayers, and do nothing. People's choice. Or you can work for you coalitions, government, so that Ukraine can take the path of success to Europe, or you can give in to the demagogies of Yule, Yur and Witt, and walk again with the peaks of grief and hopelessness, as you went 15 years under them, listening to their long talk about everything and nothing, and smashing everything that was created by your hands. Believe me, Yuri, Julie, and Vitti do not know how to build, but only to destroy. And Olesis Potter, the father of our independence 40 years ago, said as he did, and the socialists remind you of these true words: the greatest ruin will not prevail over the last mauler; don't give your minds and souls to the brackoniers, anywhere but even more to hell than what you live in, they won't bring you. Follow us, and we'll come with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u118	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Victor Taran. He's behind him, Katerina Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u119	Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear people! Teren Victor, “Timoshenko’s Yulia Block”. Dear people, raising tariffs really hurt each and every one of you. Well, that's really what it is. And the President, in fact, you have remained defenseless today before the overthrow of the government and especially many local officials. And that's true too. And the truth is there's no one to protect you. The deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who are in this Hall should be protected, otherwise why did you choose them? And believe me, we want to do this. And it was that the specific deputies of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” really drafted a law under which the government should be responsible for the tariffs. And if there's a rise in tariffs, there's going to be a corresponding increase in wages. So we did what the legislators have to do. But, dear people, you see for yourself that in the Supreme Council such laws do not pass. Today, in the Supreme Council, a decree was made to print new passports, about 500 million. stolen money, it's you for passports abroad you're going to pay God-knows-how much, but they're taking this today at the Supreme Council. And tell me, please. By the way, it was rejected by the committee, this bill. All right. Please tell me, what remains to be done in this situation is the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and in particular to all deputies? Do we have a choice, stupidly press the buttons for high wages? High wages. Be silent, be reconciled. And I want to remind you that in our faction of academics, academics, writers, intelligent educated people, and believe that we would very much like to stop the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we wouldn't want to push around the rostrum, but we just have to apply all the methods to limit the increase to infinity of tariffs. Today, we have heard of the wild beast’s rage toward Timoshenko in the speeches of some deputies. Why? But because if it hadn't been for Julia Timoshenko, Ukraine would have been quiet and peaceful like a cemetery. That's true! But because Timoshenko is traveling in the areas and managed to achieve a reduction in tariffs in Kiev, Hmelnicki, Cherkas, and Winnitz. Today, she went to Lutsk for this purpose. But she simply cannot physically go to every city to collect local deputies and cancel high tariffs. And that's why we have to adopt the law. There must be a law under which the wages of the people must increase. And we've shown in the budget that the funds are hidden, that's 15 billion dollars. And when we're told that protecting people is populism, let the regions deal with that populism, let the Communists who are now shouting. But the communists won't protect you, because they've traded Marx's Capital long ago for Ahemtov's capital. That's true. And literally the last sentence. I want to tell you that those impertinent literary sensations that you heard before my performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u120	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. It's Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u121	Dear voters! Honorable Protectors of Motherland, participants in the Great Homeland War, children and grandchildren and grandchildren! Please excuse me for saying on this holy day that it is necessary for those who have slaughtered, destroyed and fought on the side of Nazi Germany to be recognized as heroes. I'm sorry that we, the deputies, allowed holiness in this room. Allow me, on behalf of the anti-crisis coalition, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, to greet you sincerely with the Day of Protector of the Homeland, with the Day of the Soviet Army and the Navy. And as the previous speaker spoke, I simply cannot help but read such verses. And it will be so, and it will be irreversible. There'll be an old man on the stage. The last one on the platter of the frontist. And men will rise up before him in a hurry. With a weak voice and a tired voice A former fighter will lead the story The way the earth plucked out the metals, About how the sun on the planet saved The boys will smile proudly The girls will be sighing. How can you die at 17? How can you lose your mother in a year? And he will leave, a witness to the glorious battle. With a bouquet of roses and poppies. Remember them until it's too late. As long as they live among us living." Happy birthday to you, ladies and gentlemen! As I continue to speak, I also want to express my concern about the unsettling situation in Ukraine. And it is supported by the President of Ukraine, the guarantor of the Constitution, based on the Ulysses of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine, which people have already begun to forget, and that is why they are stirring up the situation in the state today. It seems like the President has nothing left to do, the head of state is doing, and his blessing is doing all this. In any case, the heads of district government are taking the most active part with the centres of “Our Ukraine”, and yesterday this also happened, and the leadership of the Lutsky National University, despite all the laws, has organized a huge speech for Lucenka. Who is he? What does it have to do with college, with science, with education? So I come to this conclusion: the citizens of Ukraine, besides you and me, have no one to save our land, no one to protect us from slumbering nationalism. And so let us today create our national resistance against nationalism, against fascism, against those who want to spoil our history today. And our Ukraine, and the Yulia Block Timoshenko -- they hate our land, they hate our history, they hate you, they hate our history.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u122	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, prominent citizens of Ukraine! On February 21st, Ukraine celebrated the Day of Home Language, and the following day, February 22nd, the voices of the anti-crisis coalition, those who swear in love for Ukraine, for the whole of Ukrainian history and for the glorious story, were included in the agenda before the announcement of the day of this session a number of bills that lead to escalation, both of the language issue and to an exacerbation of the political situation in Ukraine. These include dozens of bills, such as those of the national MP Vadim Kolesnichenko: 2514, 2515, 2346, and so on. This is related to the expansion of the Russian language, in particular. On television, on radio, on the judiciary, on the work of local self - government and executive authorities. Also, the Law 1120 of the Komara People’s Deputies on the granting of official status to the Russian language. So I want to make a note, as French inquisitive Antoine Mayer said, that the question is the struggle for language is a symbol of the struggle for power. And that's why those people who say so and so swear that they were rejected without discussion, without committee discussion, Bills 2332 on the elimination in Ukraine of the symbols of the former USSR, 1251 on the amendment to the law on the rehabilitation of victims of the political repression of Onischuk, 3078 on the marking of the century of Roman Sukiewicz and a number of other laws, testify that the anti-crisis coalition still, even the language issue, uses, in fact, in the struggle for power. And I would also like to cite the words of a Ukrainian man of origin, but who became a Russian chauvinist, very wise words: “Better for Ukraine to be independent but Russian than in Russian but Ukrainian language, because the Russian language will return to Russia and the Ukrainian empire will not last.” Thus, the native language is always a omophor for the protection of its people from destruction. And those who want to destroy their language are people who work against their people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u124	Yes, please, Pritica conveys the word Alexia Radziewski, followed by Kilinkarov to Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners! Last plenary week of the Supreme Council will be remembered by all of us as a week of unprecedented opposition attempts to destabilize the political situation in our country. There have been questionable, rude insinuations, violent attacks, all the way up to the intense capture of the purest power in the Supreme Council and the draining of the highest legislative hall in our country where we are with you. And all of this is done for the sole purpose of destabilizing the political situation and making a desperate attempt to gain the authority of the electorate and the population of Ukraine by questionable means. All of this testifies to the fact that we are witnesses and to a phenomenon that can undoubtedly be called political agony, political incursion, when no other methods are in place. And what I want to do today is look at the opposition representatives who are here today, in this room, with the question: "Honorable, or maybe you're thinking of running gas," what was it like 10-15 years ago before the Supreme Council? And warn that similar attempts are certainly doomed to failure. They are doomed to failure because you are proposing the very wrong situation in our country today. Yesterday there was a session of the Lviv City Council, attended by the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction and the young leader of “Our Ukraine” Kirilenko. They also caused presumptuous pressure, according to city council deputies, for the only reason, they begged for at least 5%, but to lower tariffs because they had nothing to return from Lviv to the capital of our state to Kiev. And I want to be happy to inform all the radio audience that this presumptuous attempt has failed. They came with a zero result from Lviv to Kiev. And the City Council deputies firmly stated their position. There is no need to interfere with their activities in order to harm them. They need our help with you. Victor Yanukovic's government today has offered society a reliable guaranteed mechanism and social protection, and a solution to the critical situation at housing and utility tariffs. Let's work on these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Mutz. Alexandrovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u127	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you as a representative of Western Ukraine, as a representative of an area under the authority of our Ukrainian governor and a Bhutanese adviser. The leader of the opposition sincerely convinces Ukrainian citizens that in areas where the majority of the people in the councils and authorities are in buttresses, people do not have problems with municipal tariffs. You'll see that this is populism and an open lie like Ternopol. As early as 2005, when the Party of the Regions was in a deadlock, the government led the leader of today’s opposition, at the corner of the Orange Revolution, in Ternopol, the utility tariffs on water and heat were increased and there was an increase immediately after the decree of the then premiere of 342 of May 11, 2005, which called off the authority of the authorities to regulate municipal tariffs. As a result, the ternopolitans began to pay, not a bracelet zero eight copies, but a bracelet seventy - six copies, with an average salary of 553 bracelets. At the same time, the Donetsks received 962 bracelets, while water and water supplies paid 1 bracelet 41 copies. The Moroccan authorities paid more for the water supply than the Dutch people paid twice as much. The Ternopol Council based the increase in tariffs on the fact that the money would go to repair the water supply, but it freed up the fees for connections to the pipeline from the construction organizations owned by the NI and the BIT, and turned the unsuspecting load over the shoulders of the ternopoles. The tariffs remained one of the most expensive in Ukraine. How did the tariffs rise in 2006? In Donetsk the water supply and disposal services consist of one bracelet of 56 copies, and the wages are higher. 1,200 dollars. In Ternopol, two 28 - dollar bracelets are paid for the same services, earning about 700 dollars. While in Ternopol water charges and withdrawals increased by 200 percent between 2003 and 2006, in Donetsk in the same period by nine percent from bracelet 41 to bracelet 56. Why do we have such tariffs, such prices, and such figures? Two terms in a row in the Ternopilsk region are run by the Battle Orange team, and the Donetsk region is headed by the region. In Ukraine, we don't buy enough water abroad, but in the areas run by BUT and NU, even from the water, they take advantage of ordinary people. Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic and the government rightly pointed out that local authorities should be responsible for raising tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Alexandrovska and Kosub will give her three more minutes, six minutes, and Ribub will follow her.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I cannot again address the topic of housing services, tariffs and subsidies by the distinguished voters. This is a very painful issue that it concerns absolutely all the people living in Ukraine, and my former colleague raised the same subject and said that different tariffs are set in different regions, I think you understand what this is about. At the same time, here in the Hall, a representative of the Yulia Timoshenko faction just spoke and said that today's power is allegedly unjustifiably raising tariffs and that is the faction that is seeking justice. What, then, is the justice of the representatives of the orange factions in Parliament, and what is indeed true justice? Whether the tariffs on Ukraine can be averaged, that is, what is proposed in the bill, which is made precisely by the orange factions, of course not. It has just been said here that the level of income of people living in different regions varies because we know that there is very much unemployment in western Ukraine. It is from there that Ukrainians travel abroad to earn money because they cannot find a job, a job that would give them enough wages to live on. That is where the high tariffs are, because communications are small and their content and overheads are very high. Therefore, this burden of high tariffs rests on people who are not able to work, earn and receive enough wages at all. Therefore, in the proposed Code of Oranges, the average of Ukrainian tariffs is absurd. This means that people living in large cities and receiving, after all, more or less high wages are higher than those in the depressed regions to which the Ternopol region belongs, including the Ternopol region. Of course, these citizens will be in more favourable conditions. This can be done from an economic point of view, in terms of soundness of mind and fairness, cannot be done. And that's what the oranges are proposing in this bill. Can I hold that? Of course not, and we Communists can't support it. The next draft bill, which we are asked to support, vote on and allegedly block electricity and does not allow the Parliament to work in orange conditions. The following assumption is that they say that increases in prices and tariffs on housing and utilities can only take place on a condition that is independent of the economic activities of enterprises, housing and utility organizations. That's ridiculous! Why? What does that mean? This means that if electricity and gas prices continue to rise, tariffs will automatically increase. Is that right? Of course not. We are communists who say that the Government should seek to reduce the price of gas, to increase electricity growth, electricity tariffs and direct capital investments in these industries. This is what the Government of Januković started doing for the first time in 15 years. It is in the 2007 budget that the Government is investing directly in utilities in order to reduce its own costs and thus reduce, in fact, tariffs. As you can see, Yulia Timoshenko's Block is offering exactly the opposite, which will, of course, lead to an increase in tariffs. Third message. Oranges are proposed that the rate of increase in prices and tariffs for housing and utilities cannot exceed the rate of increase in average wages. What is average wages? It is determined by the high wages, in fact, by a small number of Ukrainian citizens. And it is determined by the enormously low wages of the absolute majority of the population of the State. Who determines the average wage? Of course, those who receive 20, 30, tens of thousands of bracelets of wages. And, by the way, the wage increase is such a crazy, highly paid category of officials that Timoshenko was established when she was Prime Minister. This means that the average wage level at which the tariffs will be equal, as she proposes, will provide a high tariff for those who receive low wages. Can people pay at that rate? Of course not. Therefore, when you hear that the oranges are proposing the Lowering of Tariffs Act, do not believe it! There is, as you can see, no specific proposal that could really bring down tariffs. What did the Communists offer? We have already proposed and have made a proposal, including here in the Supreme Council Hall, and have sent our proposal to the Government. We propose the removal of VAT from residential and utility enterprises. This should already lead directly to a reduction in tariffs. We propose to limit the cost-effectiveness of housing and utility enterprises because they are monopolies. We're actually proposing to make a gas price budget, and you know, the Yanukovic Government has already done so, the discounted price for gas has already been introduced, we understand that it is still large, we need to find reserves in the budget. And we're communists. Here are our proposals for lowering the tariffs that we have made to our Government today, and we have received a response and support for our position. What do the oranges suggest? This week, they voted on two bills, the author of which is a member of the faction, and this is a bill for the transfer to concession of water and water supply facilities. I declare that this Act explicitly states that tariffs will be imposed, including loans and interest rates of banks. Will there be a rise in tariffs? Of course it will. Here is the double position of the orange faction, and I therefore urge you not to believe what they say here in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u130	Thank you, Hello. Sergey Ribuk, please prepare Mine and Melniczuk pass the word Bogchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, next week is no less interesting to us than this one that goes by -- we're going, thank God, to the constituencies. And I'm sure that, first of all, members of the coalition majority have the right and desire to go to people with a good heart and a good heart. Because when we do some of the work right now, we're going to listen to people, and we're going to do our own thing, and we're going to do what we're supposed to do. We have to say that the coalition, by adopting a series of laws in the second half of 2006, has enabled the government to work and get the economy out of the gap and out of those black, patched holes. And today, thanks to this, they have once again adopted a series of laws that give the government the ability to work clearly, systematically and January, and the February month, I'm sure, will show the dynamics of economic growth. And here's the first answer to our people about what's going to grow in real prosperity, and then all the need to talk and fight about tariffs and other payouts and so forth. Because it's going to be someone, it's going to be what it's going to be, and it's going to be a basic guarantee. That's why both the coalition and the government didn't go, like the others, by populism. What's more, the fact that we're finally getting along, and it's becoming more and more clear, is very clear about the actions of the opposition itself. Not only do they make concessions that no longer suit a person, but they go to hell, sorry for the word, but they do. And if so, then we're on the right track. And on the right, they have no argument. Moreover, the Opposition Law was wanted, please adopt such a law in the first reading that there are only one rights, no obligations, no more than in the government, but it does not say that it is necessary to be an electrician in charge of this opposition. I want to say that it's very difficult to work for the government because yesterday the Kharkiv governor says he won't pay municipal payments. You hear that nothing is going to change the laws and the Constitution. And we didn't block the coalition, the rostrum, but we protected not only the Supreme Council's rostrum, but we protected the Constitution and the right of every deputy to speak and every human being in Ukraine to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Bogchuk has six minutes of colleagues, Rudnik, and Melniczuk has been handed over to him. And to prepare, I can't see the Shadows, to the Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u133	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopolishte. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to stop at what's been happening lately in the walls of the Supreme Council. The opposition, having lost hope in any way to come to power in a constitutional way, decided to gain power through adventures, by lying to society about the real state of affairs in the economy. The leader of BUT forgot, but the voters did not forget how she provoked Mrs. Timoshenko as prime minister of Ukraine, and she created artificial crises more faithfully. The first is the gas crisis when, on the other hand, Mrs. Timoshenko made a sharp increase in the oil tax imported into Ukraine, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, raised the tariffs for the railways, for the transport of oil products and taxes for the Ukrainian oil refineries themselves. As a result, the factories stopped, and the prices for petrol and solar power went up to the sky. Another crisis is sugar. The deal to business structures and to the detriment of Ukrainian producers, Timoshenko personally imported Brazilian sugar, while the Ukrainian sugar stocks in August 2005 amounted to 700,000 tons or 5 months, with a new sugar season starting 20 days later. To explain to society the need for Brazilian sugar, Mrs. Timoshenko and the team are artificially creating sugar deficits in markets, the price goes up to 5 dollars per kilogram, sugar is banned at warehouses, and Mrs. Timoshenko on television promises people cheap sugar from Brazil. It wasn't for the people, it was for the business empire. Because the import of 300,000 tons of sugar produced a lot of cash, which is within about $150 million. From. This adventure, we've talked about this adventure many times and we've stopped this adventure. And they stopped this adventure -- it gave us the opportunity to do a normal job in sugar factories, and there were more than a dozen of them in Ternopolska. They gave our peasants a normal job, they gave us a normal salary. The villagers believed that this area was not destroyed, it could live and work, and in 2005, they produced 1 million more sugar in 2006. Such adventures were made in both the flesh and the gas and the bracelet, and so on. Today, the BUT leader is trying to destabilize the situation in Ukraine by speculating on municipal problems. These problems have been accumulated, not today, but for years. And when today's anti-crisis coalition with the government is trying to solve these problems, it doesn't seem to like it. The cynicism with which it operates has no limits. In 18 areas of Ukraine today under the authority of BUT and “Our Ukraine”. First, they decide to raise municipal tariffs 2-3 times, and then they go to the area by Mrs. Timoshenko, which is widely advertised and in front of the cameras, they try to convince their associates to lower their tariffs by 15 percent. Yes, it's cynicism, it's abuse of its people. First, they raise prices three times and then they decrease by 15 percent. This seems to be a major concern for our citizens. It's like the robber takes away 100 dollars from you and then mercifully gives you 15 dollars on the road. In doing so, by persuading you in great love. Today, they lose their support by losing voter support, and Mrs. Jula has taken another position in the Supreme Council — the chief electrician of the Supreme Council. The success here is great, the destruction of the Supreme Council. Anti-crisis coalition does not block the work of the Supreme Council, but protects it, creates conditions for the Supreme Council to work, and voters are witnesses when all factions speak out of the Supreme Council's rostrum, and today they have the opportunity to see it. And the opposition is blocking the Supreme Council to get one -- to destabilize the situation on the ridges of population discontent, to take power. I urge all voters to be vigilant. And I want to assure the population that the provocations will not pass. The election to the Supreme Council is in four years. Please give a few minutes to the defender, the hero of our Sergey Czeropissky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u134	We'll give it to you when it's ready. Please, Santa Claus. Don't control me, please. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u135	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. All right, listen up, listen up, listen up, listen up, listen up, Dear Adam Ivanovich! Today, February 23rd and the Socialists welcome everyone to the Day of Protector, the Day of the Soviet Army and the Navy, who served in their own time. Last week was marked by a political upheaval in the Supreme Council. People need to understand that it's not about people, it's about taking power. Julia Volodymyrna really wants to be Prime Minister, and Winsky wants to be her Deputy Undersecretary. So all that's done is the consequences of wanting to have the prime minister's power. Remember, a few months ago there was an attempt to block the hall, and there was a flag. The next attempt failed also when an attempt was made to block the outside. To this day, the park does not grow grass where there was a butive leg. Now again, another attempt on the inside to block the actions of the Supreme Council. The natives turned into electricians. It's likely that up to 3,000 volts or thousands of volts are given down there in the basement. Once again, there is a desire to create conditions that the Supreme Council should not work for 30 days, and then the President has the right to dissolve the Supreme Council. Insinuations and reasons themselves are designed to do this. It's an electric shield today, and tomorrow what? We'll live to see. But the goal is to get the Supreme Council to run, so that there will be early elections to the Supreme Council and once again an attempt to take power. And now, once again, the very foolish attempts are being made: some in the Supreme Council will be shown by the anti-nationals and others by the fighters for the happiness of the people. Today, Julia Volodymyrna is traveling in the fields and has the desire to translate into others what she has done, which has led to the power of her party's representatives, raised prices for utilities, and now she's driving and she wants to somehow build herself up and translate her own calculations into others. It's dishonest to people. And as the fighters for the people fight for their happiness, I will show you the example of the miners of Alexandria. There they leased the carbs, and Julia Volodymyrna, who was before the elections in Alexandria, promised that she would do anything to have a salary and a piece of bread there, now she's doing everything to get her deputies to run the matter, just to prevent people from having this job and a piece of bread. And to the end. We can succeed when we complete political reform and all these oppositions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u136	Thank you. Bespali will pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich, please. She's being followed by Mendus. He's handing it over to Red Eye, getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u137	Lila Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! After such a “various one, ” you are saddened to think that today is the Day of the Protector of the Motherland. From what is our majority and antichrist coalition protecting us today and from what country? People could go to the last battle in words for their homeland. Today, it seems that everything is being done against the fact that it is more faithful to make this life worse in this homeland today. And the words are extremely wicked, although they seem to be interesting. Dear friends, I think this tariff epéia has already filled the osmia. We can say many times “we failed”, “we did not make our predecessors”. So why didn't you change all that? Why did the good 240 - 250 deputies not undo what was bad?Oh, my God! They have not taken responsibility and have never improved their lives today. Today, February 23rd, 5 days is the end of winter, and the authorities in the face of the anti-crisis coalition and its government have done nothing. Only today is the whole “Variance” hour, and this is what we're talking about. Today, we have a very strange and interesting power in Ukraine. The Communists never came to power, they came to power just now, because it is known that the Communists have never changed with what is an independent state and is that country. The other one. Today, the anti-crisis coalition is based on a party of regions that, while in opposition, almost destroyed and destroyed the unitary country. So are the socialists who joined us as a result of the famous actions of the Frost. Very interesting power. Please tell me, are these the protectors of the Motherland? It seems to me that looking at the sad winter tariff epoch today, looking at the slow pace of the increase in the lives of our fellow countrymen, I would say that soon it seems that we will be celebrating the day of the destroyer of our homeland. Especially do these thoughts turn to the fact that today too many people in the anticrisis coalition are concentrating on those who are willing to live by instructions outside Ukraine. In the 100th, we only have to go with Russia. We have to go to Europe with Russia. Moreover, even the foreign minister, we should appoint one that we will be told somewhere outside of Ukraine. That's what we've been through! So it is really the day of the destroyer of the homeland, for the example of Lukashenko is very convincing. Only from the height of the protection of national interests and national dignity should we be friends. I'm proud that Ukraine is a European country that we don't have as much Asian as, say, Luzkov or Zavalina, who want to take up a lot of territory in Ukraine. We do not claim to be in the Voronez region or Cuba, but we defend the interests and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the vital interests of our people. Motherland's Day of Destruction will not pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u138	Sergey Redfoot, combat general, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u139	Thank you. Well, Your Honor, Mrs. Lilia, the destroyer of Motherland, probably the one who is today called the guarantor of the Constitution, whose birthday is today. So I would like to welcome him to do the construction of the state, not the destruction of it. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. You are aware of the situation following the promulgation of the Order on the Award of Me by the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. Last night in my speech, I criticized the President for similar awards to Michael Potebenko's. My emotions may have slipped, but I met Mikhail Alexiovich yesterday. We got it. I apologize for perhaps saying too harsh a word to him. But in no way do I correct my words about the current system of State rewards. In no way do we agree with the practice of having only one person depending on their mood: whether it's gruel, whether a bee bites, determines who, and which, and for what, to give public rewards. I am ashamed of my grandmother’s parachute and the singing rectors who boast of our nation’s rewards. We, the faction of socialists, will initiate radical changes in the system of State rewards so that it will not be shameful for the state or for the State rewards. With regard to the Wakhanalia created by the blessing of the guarantor of the Constitution, we, the veterans of the Afghan War, claim that they will not pass, we will not let Ukraine be bombed and destroyed. We will face those symbols that want to rob us of the future. And taking this opportunity, I sincerely congratulate all the veterans of war, the military forces, all those, this day celebrates as the birthday of the Soviet Army and the Navy, as the day of the protector, the true defender of our homeland.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-23-m0.u140	Thank you. You too, Sergey, with this day, for you have given much protection to Motherland and her duties. Dear colleagues, I remind you next week your table should work and work with the voters, let them wait for us. From March 5 to 9, work on committees and MP factions, we'll start another session on March 13th. And a few words to conclude, well, first of all, I'd like to say, who are the defenders of the country protecting? Or by whom? I think they're protecting the person with the hair and the "loving friends", that's the highest call for the defenders of the country at this stage. The other one. I would like to express my sincere gratitude to those deputies who have made every effort to make the Supreme Council work constructively, and yet you and I have more than ever done almost everything that was planned for this plenary week and not let anyone lose the work of the higher legislative body. The only thing I think is, let's also thank those who have helped to save electricity for the administration of the Supreme Council, and we're going to write a bonus for those who have worked successfully in this session hall. In connection with what he said about us being with you. Let us begin the plenary session only on March 13th, and let us once again welcome those two festivals that connect both male and female sex, and on February 23rd and March 8th and wish our women continued to support us -- colleagues, those who work with us to be as fighting and persistent and beautiful as they were in these days. And at the end, and on March 9th, we'll meet, too, Shevchenk's birthday. And in closing, I think once again, we have confirmed and convinced our society that the anti-crisis coalition and the Cabinet of Ministers formed by it is serious and long. Good-bye, good-bye. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is concluded. I declare it closed.
