ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, invited, radio and television audiences! It's May 29th. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Put your cards in. A roll call is being made. Please. [[16:01:56]] There are 429 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputy Chief Sergei Petrovich. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] We wish him success in all his affairs and the positive impact on Parliament’s work. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Conciliation Council has identified a list of issues for consideration by the Supreme Council in accordance with the joint statement of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures aimed at resolving the political crisis through the holding of successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the procedures for their consideration. Today, before lunch, in addition to the Conciliation Council, the factions and committees were also working on the documents proposed for consideration at this evening’s meeting, first of all, and at tomorrow’s meeting. However, in the second cluster of issues to be considered tomorrow, there have been other disagreements that need to be addressed when these documents are being finalized. So today you are invited to consider three drafts of documents, which include a number of projects, but still need to be carefully considered. And the first question is the registration number 3580, this is the bill confirming the results of the voting on Ukraine's laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 3 April to 29 May 2007. I have to say a few words about that. You know that on April 2nd, the President's decree to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council was issued, and it happened that most parliaments, the coalition, did not recognize the validity of this decree, and some deputies recognized its validity. Nevertheless, Parliament worked and prepared, as on April 26 it repeated the same. The same decree was issued, and Parliament worked closely during that period. Not close, but exactly 53 bills that are to be signed and put into effect by the President. But this is where this is going to happen, because the President missed the 15-day deadline for signing these decrees. These laws, and Parliament was working on them all the same, it turns out that a coalition was formed, how to deal with these bills: or to sign them by withdrawing from the Constitution in order to create conditions for this rule to be ensured in a procedural way. Therefore, the Conciliation Council proposes to vote on each bill once again, thereby confirming its validity. On the other hand, by allowing representatives of two factions who did not take part in the consideration of these bills in the sessional room, I am not talking about committees, because some of them worked on committees on them so that they could be added to the support of these bills. And the Conciliation Council defined it this way, and we signed the statement saying that it would be better to vote on these bills one by one in such a sequence that they could be signed today and sent to the President for signature. I therefore put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of registration number 3580: a draft decree confirming the results of the voting on Ukraine's laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 3 April to 29 May. I'm putting it to a vote. Including, yes, inclusion in the agenda. [[16:07:55]] For 410 Decision taken. The word for this account is given. Oh, no need to report? We made a deal, didn't we? Then. There's no procedure here. Procedure defined. Please! If you have any questions for me, you can ask questions, by procedure or by any means. Well, let's take one minute, if there's a question. Anyone wants to. From factions to one minute, please. Strutovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u2	Vladimir Stretovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander, well, it is known that these laws were approved in most parliaments where there was no alternative view. What do you think, as the head of the Supreme Council in charge of the legislative process, are they in line with the principle of expressing the will of the entire Ukrainian people, not just the part of it that was in the room at the time?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u3	Please, I beg your attention. I think that the alternative was expressed in the drafting of the bills. The session hall only performed one function: it approved or did not approve of these bills. In this case, there are bills that are approved. Thus, the alternative is considered. And I think that Vladimir Mikolaiovich will vote accordingly to add his voice to the projects that suit him. I can only say that there were no mistakes here, because all the bills are exactly in line with the needs of society, the needs of the state. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u4	Alexander Alexanderovich, since we understand what the social package is all about, we are ready to vote again for what we have already voted on, but are you giving us assurances that this time the President will not be late to sign the laws? Because that's the way it's gonna be. We will be responsible all the time for the delay of our President.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u5	The point is that the statement signed by the President is a reconciliation of positions in this case and the need to publish these bills is actually his wish. We therefore have no doubt that the President's word is firm. Please, Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u6	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Alexander Alexandrovic, in the declaration signed, the first moment was the constitutionality of the dissolution of the Supreme Council. So it is agreed that today we will begin with 151 statements today, we will take a decision and continue to follow the bill. Please answer the question: Do we not put the horse behind the cart, starting to consider all these questions that we are given today? Explain, please, what happens to statements and when will we consider them?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u7	Well, what I'm saying is that the horse here is going ahead of the wagon, and these laws are passed early, starting on April 2. Secondly, we will not consider any statements by MPs who want to leave the faction, because this is not a function of Parliament. Parliament is considering applying for its credentials if the MP is taking such an initiative to Parliament, making an application to the Secretariat. And when they come out of factions, then according to article 82 of the Constitution, he loses his authority. And that's why everyone, according to the Rules, individually submits their statements to the Secretariat, they register there, and then the function of chairman is just to report to the Supreme Council that this kind of deputy has come out of the faction. And then according to the same requirements of the Constitution and the requirements of the Rules, he sends these proposals to a party structure that has delegated deputies here, or delegates or representatives of the list, who became deputies later. And according to the decision made there, information can be transmitted to the Central Electoral Commission, which may or may not recognize these powers as lost. But that's the third thing. We are discussing today that Parliament is not considering these issues. Please, Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u8	Roman Zabzaluk. I give the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u10	First of all, I want to welcome all the democratic Ukraine with the timely elections! And I would also like to thank all the politicians, including the leaders of the state, who have agreed on this issue, which has lifted the tension in society and which has enabled Ukraine to work. And separately, I want to express my gratitude to the President, who has held on courageously, clearly as the real president of democratic Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear friends! I would also like to ask Alexander Alexandrovich a question. We agreed that we would be the first to consider the draft decree on recognition of acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that have been adopted politically, and I would like to change now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u11	There's no objection, let's ask the first question. I'm asking for your attention. That's the thing. Let's vote. Let's put it in the order of the day and vote first, there's no objection. What else? Ah, Šibko Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u12	Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, I would like not to ask you a question, but to point out that the Council of Europe in the van der Linden, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and Terry Davis in person as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe congratulated the President of the Supreme Council, the President and the Prime Minister on the beginning of the reconciliation process of the situation that will lead the country out of the crisis. So once again, I want to emphasize that we are in this day's work under this, you know, very view of something, or better to say from the European community, with a very narrow view, the community. I think we have to work productively here and justify the trust that has been mentioned there today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u13	Thank you. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u14	I ask you to pass the word to Alexandrovsky. And if it gets to her, she'll give me back that word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u15	It won't come again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u16	Thank you. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, distinguished by Alexander Alexandrovich. I quote the article 82 that you refer to. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in session. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is in charge of the selection of at least two thirds of its constitutional composition. The Supreme Council of Ukraine shall meet for the first session no later than 30 days after the election results have been announced.” And the last. “The first meeting of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine opens the oldest national deputy of the age.” Where is it about getting out of the faction, or entering, and so on? And I quote in article 94: “The law is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and immediately directs the President. The President of Ukraine, within 15 days of receiving the law, signs it and officially publishes it, or returns the law with his motivated and formulated proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for reconsideration. In the event that the President of Ukraine has not returned the law for reconsideration during the period established, the law shall be deemed to be approved by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u17	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovna, you know, I've been in negotiations for so long these days that I could have confused the articles. This is 81 articles, and I called 82. So look at the 81st article, which says more clearly what I have already mentioned. That's the first one. And secondly, regarding the promulgation of laws. Formally, the President did not receive these documents, even though we sent them to him. Clearly, he needs to examine his secretariat so that these documents can come to him. But it's part of the laws that apply, and part of it, in general, we didn't even send out, looking at his position. So it's obviously going to be the right thing to do and we've made this decision, and let's vote on these documents, and the President will sign them with the constitutional basis provided for in that article that you just quoted. I. That's later. And for the time being, let's see, I'm really wrong, not me, and we've been giving orders to the faction heads of the Council first to consider a bill of recognition that some acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been lost. This is the registration number of this document, 3579. I ask you to include this issue in the agenda by voting. [[16:18:52]] For 395 Decision taken. And the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, 3581, I also ask to be included in the order of the day. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:19:26]] For 426 Decision taken. With regard to the decree of recognition, certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were lost. Your attention, please. It is said that several Supreme Council rulings of April 2 on the political situation in Ukraine related to the announcement of the Presidential Decree of April 2, 2007 “On the timely cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. April 4, "About the organisation of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the period leading up to the resolution of the political conflict in Ukraine". Decree of April 26 on the President's decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of consecutive elections on April 26. Decree of April 30, No. 998 “On the election of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies for amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the election of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian People’s Deputies”. [[Amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 4 May 2007]] And Decree No. 1018 “On ensuring the completion of the constitutional procedure of the legislative process and the taking of effect by the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine during April 2007”. The specificity of this decree, which touches on these acts, is that we decide or decide that these acts are no longer valid, and I have just read the list. But the second paragraph shows that this ruling takes effect simultaneously with the entry into force of the Presidential Decree on Recognition in such a way that the President's decree of 26 April 355 “On the short-term termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of extraordinary elections”. Do you understand what this is about? So our rulings won't work after he cancels his presidential election decree. It's easier to explain. So if you have any questions. With motive? Please sign in. One faction at a time, you can sign up for motive in one minute. Please. Chubarov from our Ukrainian faction, please. Then from the faction who wants to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u18	If there's no faction, let me say what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u19	Let's not actually sign up for the faction anymore. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u20	I would like to point out in my statement that in this room, when the national MPs were meeting, the factions of the factions that are joining the coalition and looking at some of the other issues are artificially divided into two identical questions, which at all stages of their preparation, starting with the Simferopol District Council, and ending with the Supreme Council Committee, were always discussed together. This is about naming the new settlements of Acropolis and Anayur. It was artificially done, deliberately by members of the coalition, Alexander Aleksandrovitch, I just want our voters to know that there is a lot of the problem of xenophobia in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u21	I wouldn't say that. At least while we were receiving these documents, there was no xenophobia. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u22	Alexander Aleksandrovich, a respected colleague, I believe that Ukraine should have and was obliged to go through this certainly not a simple path of political crisis. We should probably learn to make deals after all. I would ask you very much in this session hall not to hear applause, cheers or shouts of "hate," we have all given up in some way, in our own interests, including, the interests of our electoral rating. So I'd like to ask these three bills, those decisions that the working group has made, they can be voted on and not scattered around them by some kind of artificial opposition. Why? Because we are ultimately destined to make a deal. Well, Ukraine can't take long to endure, to see calmly how the political elite instead of making a deal, to stand up and stab each other. So it's a wonderful offer, Alexander Alexanderovich, yes, it goes into action when the other side is going to meet us. If we continue to meet each other, then we will move away from the place and the bills that society needs from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u23	Simonenko instead of Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u24	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the faction will not support this project from the following. First, the President's decree on constitutionality is before the Constitutional Court. We, by decree of the Supreme Council, took on specific political conditions and responded to the challenges of the President's time by taking orders before the state and before us as parliamentarians. The president did not give up his grades to Parliament, not what he did at all, issuing decrees. This situation was discussed at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and the Supreme Council officially asked the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to consider and assess the events taking place in Ukraine. These draft regulations are published in the media, they are reported to the public, and they are already history. So I say we don't vote, I say we do. And I suggest that we include three points of this decision, that we go to PARENTS to reverse those decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u25	Thank you. He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u26	Kamchatny, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Kharkiv. Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u28	Honourable Parliamentarians of Ukraine! Julia Timoshenko’s block of thought is about that. We understand very well that many documents have been accepted in a state of acute, psychological, we understand very well that there are many documents that one might like, and others may hate them, we understand very well, today we could ask questions and they would all be fair and that we would also call back those letters that were sent to international organizations, but we know the price of compromise. I want all of us to remind ourselves of the state we were in four days ago, we were in a state of literally enormous national danger. We're going to a very different level today, a level of peace, a level of state wisdom. Because of this, we have a lot of comments, but we are willing to vote unanimously for this document to really be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u29	Thank you, and I support the same line. Because it's about certain decisions. A total of 203 Supreme Council rulings have been adopted during this period. This document applies only to five. And these are the decisions that have been taken as a response to the President's relevant decrees, and these two areas of law are legally removed by the fact that our orders to cancel or terminate their validity come after the President has repealed his decree. So nobody's offended here, and we're on parity terms. So I would like to put to the vote a project with a little change in relation to the editorial refinements that, by the way, answer the question that Peter Mikolaiovich asked. As to recognition, certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been lost. And therefore, in the first paragraph, to write: “declared as having lost the validity of the Supreme Council’s ruling, according to the list added.” I've already read it. So this is exactly what I'm voting for, the whole project, 3579. Please determine how to vote. [[16:28:19]] For 397 Decision taken. Thank you. It's not written here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u30	Where is she? Well, it's got to be a separate decision. We voted that one. No, I'm saying again, we voted that. Vote another paragraph. I'm asking for your attention. A proposal is made for a draft decision to include paragraph 3 to address PARJE as to the deletion of the adopted resolution on this issue. I'd like to ask, let's put this to a vote tomorrow, only its forms need to be edited exactly as for such a document, for a ruling, then I'll put it to a vote. Because it's a wish that clearly has a basis, but it has to be voted on differently. Now project 3580 on Ukrainian laws adopted by the Supreme Council from April 3 to May 29. I'm consistently naming the law adopted and the registration number I call, and then we're defined by voting. Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid, adopted April 3, No. 856-5. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:30:19]] For 376 Decision taken. Ukraine's law of introduction. Let's do factions. Areas – 183, “Clock Timoshenko” – 112, “Our Ukraine” – 27, “SPU – 29”, “Communists – 17, “non-fractional” – 8. Ukraine’s Act on Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Laws on Retirement of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. April 3, 857 registered. Please identify yourself. Please vote. [[16:31:10]] For 413 Decision taken. The Act of Ukraine amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Compulsory copy of Documents. April 4th was voted on, number 867. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:31:37]] For 423 Copy that. Ukraine's Act of Amendment to the Ukrainian Law of Enforcement. April 5th, number 874. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:32:02]] For 411 The Ukrainian Criminal Code Amendment Act. [[on the establishment of responsibility for illegal acts in relation to toxic or highly active medical devices]] April 5, registration number 875. [[16:32:31]] For 415 Decision taken. Ukraine's Act of Amendment to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Conservation of Children's Out-of-school Institutes. April 5, registration number 876. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:32:59]] For 424 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Law on Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity [[control]] April 5, registration number 877. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:33:26]] For 419 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007. April 5th, registration number 899. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:33:52]] For 427 Decision taken. Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2007 is also 5 numbers, registration number 900. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:34:21]] For 421 The Ukrainian Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2007 to participate in multinational military training. April 6th, number 903. With a motive, please. Anyone who wants to do so can make a statement. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u31	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this is a draft law that deals with the entry into the territory of the NATO Armed Forces and the conduct of so-called joint military training. I am deeply convinced that each of you today understands how responsible this vote is. And the Communist faction calls for no vote. We must first determine our position and hold an all-U.S. referendum. As the communists suggested, in many areas of Ukraine a public referendum was held that confirmed our position. People do not want Ukraine to join NATO and against this policy. That is why I call on all conscious national MPs to identify themselves today and with Ukraine's non-block status, as we suggest. And to do so, based on the will and opinion of our citizens, by holding an all-U.S. referendum, and now not to vote. The Communist faction against this decision will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u32	I remind you that on April 6, this year, the law was voted in favour of the MP and it was adopted. I'm putting this project to a vote, please. [[16:36:29]] For 386 Decision taken. By factions, please 173 – Party of Regions, 108 – Block of Timoshenko, 74 – “Our Ukraine”, 24 – SPI, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 7. Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Quality of Imported Agricultural Products, No. 917. Teryohin wants to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this law is strictly anti - Soviet law, it is a lobbyist law, and it is clear what faction it was introduced. We can vote him, I'm just paying attention to the representatives of the President's Secretariat for him to be vetoed dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u34	If we were to consider this issue during his first consideration, we would probably be able to take into account arguments and counter-treaties, but in voting on this document, we came out of the need to ensure the quality of imported agricultural production, because if we don't provide it, then we bring the halture into the territory of Ukraine, knock down prices for our producer and damage the population. So I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking him to support this project. [[16:38:15]] For 314 Decision taken. The factions? Please, according to factions: 183 – Party of Regions, 168 – Block of Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine” – 5, SPU – 30, Communist – 20, non-fractional – 8. [[Socialists]] Ukraine's Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement (third project to repair the Kiev-Chop road between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development). 13 votes, number 928, order number. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[16:39:05]] For 405 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on Added Costs for Child Health. April 13th was voted in, order number 931. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:39:35]] For 424 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine April 13th was voted, number 932. [[16:40:03]] For 421 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Act to Amend Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine The 17th number was voted, number 936. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:40:32]] For 375 Decision taken. Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on Technical and Financial Cooperation. Voted April 18th, number 948. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:41:01]] For 425 Decision taken. Ukraine's Law on Ratification of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants. April 18th was the vote, number 949. I'll bet you a vote. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:41:27]] For the 420. Decision taken. The Act of Ukraine amending article 72 of the Law on Sudokus. On April 19th, the vote was taken. Registration number 953. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:41:53]] For 389 Decision taken. Ukraine's Amnesty Act. 19 votes. Number 955. [[16:42:18]] For 421 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on liability for plant quarantine offences]] On April 19th, the vote was taken. Number 956. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:42:46]] For 415 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the establishment of responsibility for the breach of legislation on the registration of legal acts]] April 19th, number 957. Please vote. [[16:43:15]] For 386 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions. April 19th. Number 958. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:43:41]] For 355 Decision taken. Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Transit of Goods. On April 19th, I voted, number 959. [[16:44:06]] For 376 Decision taken. Ukrainian Law on the Ransom of Private Property Lands for Social Needs and Social Needs, April 19, No. 960. Give Terhochin a word, let him speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the Constitution of Ukraine contains a term, which is the compulsory removal of private property rights on grounds of social necessity. This law does not reveal what social necessity is, how the compulsory removal of private property rights in relation to land is done. If you apply this law, any lawyer will tell you that for tomorrow any city, any grandmother and her house will be evicted from there with the funds that will be given to the evaluators, and then there will be some new royal villages. Clearly, such a law would not apply to royal villages that are now around the megapolises. It is a dangerous law that takes away the right of private property to the earth from those who have it and to the real estate. It's impossible to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u36	Thank you. Regarding the royal villages of Sergey Anatolyevich, apparently in knowledge. And with regard to the motivations for adopting this law, they were determined not to block the use of land for social purposes. For example, roads, automobiles. And now we see a lot of examples where people know in advance: where they're going to build, they're going to take up the area and then they can't solve it. I'll explain again, that's how motivation was announced during the consideration of this law. I'm putting this project to a vote, please. [[16:46:15]] For 303 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, adopted Act No. 961 on 19 April. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:46:40]] For 334 Decision taken. Ukraine's "On Organising and Conducting the Final Part of the European Championship 2012 from Football in Ukraine" Act, I put it to a vote. Registration number 962. Doesn't anyone want to go against it for a reason? [[16:47:10]] For 416 Decision taken. Please. The Act on Amendments to Articles 37, 51 of the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory compulsory state insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial", No. 964, was voted on in April. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:47:47]] For 416 Decision taken. Ukraine's Amendment Act to Article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, April 19th was voted on, number 965. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:48:12]] For 311 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences of the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for violations of radiation safety rules]] Nineteen votes, number 966. [[16:48:43]] For 402 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Ratification of Decisions of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States amending the Rules on the Definition of the State of Passage of Goods, approved by the decisions of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States since 30 November 2000. 19 votes, number 967. I'll bet you a vote. Vote, yes. [[16:49:17]] For 348 Decision taken. The Act on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment. April 19 was accepted, number 968. [[16:49:46]] For 418 Decision taken. The Ukrainian law on the State Property Fund. 19 votes, number 971. I'll bet you a vote. Vote. [[16:50:09]] For 265 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Regions” – 184, Block Timoshenko – 14, “Our Ukraine” – 11, Socialists – 30, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 6. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act. April 24th was voted in, number 985. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:50:44]] For 274 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Effective Control in the Field of Civil Protection and Technological Security. April 27, number 993. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:51:12]] For 404 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, April 27, No. 994 is put to the vote. [[16:51:38]] For 291 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Change of the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Production, Production and Use of Precious Metals and Precious Stones and Control of Transactions. April 27, number 995. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:52:07]] For 284 Decision taken. Ukraine Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on compulsory, state social insurance, April 27, No. 996. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:52:33]] For 407 The April 27 issue, 997 registration, was voted in favour of amending and recognizing some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:53:01]] For 401 Decision taken. Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Laws on Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, 3 May, No. 1000, is applicable to the vote. [[16:53:28]] For 409 Decision taken. Ukraine Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007, May 4, No. 1004. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:53:55]] For 411 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar” of May 8, No. 1008. Terjehohin, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u37	Thank you. The Novels of this law are in grave contravention of the terms of the protocol established within the framework of the World Trade Organization with the European Union, Australia, and the United States of America.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u38	I'm betting on the vote on this project, please. [[16:54:48]] For 280 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Law “To Change the Master Procedural Code of Ukraine” was voted on May 11, 1012. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[16:55:12]] For 279 Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Wine, May 11, No 1013. Give Terhochin a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u39	Thank you. I'll talk to you in four months. I would like to point out that this Law, which also conflicts with WTO standards, introduces two interesting things. First of all, government regulation has resulted in the production and distribution of drinks such as Brandy. Secondly, it is possible, forbidden earlier, to use powdery blends to create so-called wine drinks, ala-wine drinks. That is, it is a very clear lobbyist law that destroys the system of government in this sector. Therefore, the request not to vote in favour of him and the request of the secretariat to prepare a veto if voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u40	I'm asking you not to give an order to the President's Secretariat from here, but I'm putting a project to the vote. Please support him, he's being supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, too, please. [[16:56:43]] For 255 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Military Duty and Military Service, May 11, 1014, puts the vote to the vote. [[16:57:09]] For 401 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Law on Amendments to Article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports, May 15, 1021. There's a vote coming. [[16:57:33]] For 408 For 408, the decision is made. Ukraine's Act of Amendment to Certain Legislative Acts on State Architectural Control and Promotion of Investment in Construction, May 16th, No. 1026 is put to the vote. [[16:58:04]] For 303 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes is put to the vote. [[16:58:28]] For 348 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies on the Participation of Ukrainian People’s Deputies in the Work of Temporary Commissions, May 17, Law No. 1032 was voted on. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:58:57]] For 395 Ukraine’s Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Use of Prevention, Diagnostics, Treatment, Rehabilitation, and Medical Devices for National Medicine, Targeting, May 17, No. 1033. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:59:33]] For 380 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Law on Amendments to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, 17.05, No. 1034. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:59:58]] For 281 Decision taken. Ukraine’s Law to Amend the Criminal Code on Combating Nuclear Terrorism in connection with the ratification of the International Convention to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, May 24, 1071. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:00:29]] For 411 Decision taken. Ukraine Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, April 24, May, No. 1072. [[on specialised or specialised metallurgical enterprises, as well as forms of calculation when metallurgy is accepted]] King's word, please. We welcomed you here on your birthday, and you weren't in the hall at the time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u41	I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that this is an exclusively lobbying bill, which, first of all, lobbies the interests of Ukraine's incursions, where the scrap metal collection will be completely monopolized and today this bill is being considered as if we wanted to fight for the hatches, so I want to focus your attention. Once this bill has been passed, there will be no port in Ukraine at all. Because this bill is allowed to pay for scrap metal for cash in a cash register. And I want to draw the attention of all the deputies that all of our samplers will be truly grateful to us in the coffeehouses, because everything will be removed from the courtyards, from the cemetery, from the streets. Everything will be paid for cash at each reception point. That is why we are absolutely against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u42	I will now put to the vote, but I must say, repeat the phrase that Efim Leonidovich once said on the rostrum as the prime minister. He said, “It’s all been carried out.” The point is, if the State actually earned a monopoly, it would be more beneficial. I'm betting on the vote on this project, please support it. Please, we have considered this position in detail. [[17:02:28]] For 254 Decision taken. Ukraine's Act of Amendment to Certain Legislative Acts on Adoption, May 24, 1073, please. [[17:02:53]] For 409 Decision taken. Now, wait a minute. To confirm the draft decision, you are asked to wait a moment for those laws that we voted on to vote on: “Acknowledgment of the results of the voting on the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine between 3 April and 29 May according to the list is added. This decision takes effect from the day of adoption.” Because the first paragraph should correspond to the second paragraph. I'm laying the groundwork for this project, please. Based on the base. [[17:03:59]] For 412 In general, can you bet?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u43	I'm voting in general. Please. [[17:04:18]] For 407 Decision taken. From the motive of who? Write for reasons if there is a need for a fraction by one. Zagluc from “Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u44	Roman Zabzaluk faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. I give the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u45	Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u46	On behalf of our faction, I want to thank all of you that very constructively and very quickly, the quality of the issues that the working group has worked out that agree with all the factions. I would like to point out that the next question is that we have changes and additions to the Central Electoral Commission Act, which will allow us to lay all the legal groundwork for the replacement of the Central Electoral Commission, because what the Central Election Commission has demonstrated in recent months is that this body has simply not existed in us. And I would ask our faction, and anyone who wants fair elections, to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u47	Stoyan of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u48	It is good that we were thanked from opposition for our constructive, productive work. In fact, these two months of time, the coalition has failed, worked on, and adopted very positive, constructive laws. And so, really, the vote showed 300, 400 more, that these are quality laws, that we didn't waste time, but the opposition just had to confirm. So let's keep working, because you get the same salary as we do. But we were pairing here from morning to evening, and you were just pushing the buttons today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u49	I ask, calmly, let us not reproach each other, but also for mercantile reasons. You don't have to do this. Chubarov from the faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u50	Please give Kirilenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u51	Kirilenko, yes. One faction at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u52	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. We voted in favour of most of the bills in this list to understand that the political compromise reached between the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council is enough to solve the political crisis. We report that far from all the texts that have been voted in this room during this time, the faction "Our Ukraine" agrees. And we're going to express our position on these bills. At the same time, we are convinced that the right step has been taken today to legitimize mines before the Budget Act in part of social payments. But on these social payments, the President, "Our Ukraine", the opposition has been insisting for more than six months. Moreover, it is a good result of the decision to allow the forces of other states to participate in studies and draft social laws. We welcome these decisions and encourage them to make constructive decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u53	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u54	Garden, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. If we analyzed how we voted today, the absolute majority voted in favour of adopting these bills. So the coalition is on the right track and we need to keep doing this. But there's another way to see it, even a brief analysis that tells us that it's a business that's focused on the BUT faction that gives direct direction to the President in the Supreme Council Hall, where the bill requires the veto to impose where something needs to be prepared. That's what the State Property Fund is about, for example. As it were, some of them wanted there to be no rules of the game and the State Property Fund to be there. Hence, today’s vote showed who is on the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u55	Thank you all for your comments. I'm begging you, we gave one at a time. And from the Communists. Okay, I'm sorry, Katerina Semina from the Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u56	Thank you very much. Indeed, no one will be reproved. But some of them spent two months walking about with beards and resting, and some of them smelled. And that's why today. [[B in m in s a l in]] ..and today has shown that we are working productively, qualitatively, in a stately way, and you are buttoned up, and no more. [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. We don't need a link to the Constitution right now, because it's being trampled by a guarantor because it's being plundered and destroyed by you. So please correct your position, work with us. Today, everyone has shown that the Supreme Council has been working for two months, because even Mikola Volodymyrovich, 10 letters to me, says: "Please immediately bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine this kind of law." So we've been with you and we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u57	Please don't worry, colleagues. We all smelled like they said. I'm asking you to take these reprimands off of each other, they don't give anything completely, first of all. Secondly, that laws are adopted is a good, clear thing. If any remarks are made by the President, he has the right to veto, he will take advantage of it. If anyone wants to influence him, will come and counsel him or something else, that is not the point. We need to work on the bills, because they're needed for society, not for us to keep our accounts with each other. It doesn't do anything. Please. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission is under consideration. It's a more complex piece of law, it really responds to the political situation. But I would like to pay attention to that detail. You'll excuse me if I kind of take the right to a reporter here because I've been involved in preparing this project with everyone and I can actually shorten the time to talk about what's going on here, what's going on here. We have in our section 31 of the Central Election Commission Act a list of reasons why a member of the Central Electoral Commission should be appointed. But there may be such a situation in society -- whether it's a change in the political situation as a whole, or the representation on the Central Electoral Commission of representatives of one, let's say, the political party block because of the results of the elections corresponding and so on, because the time of the commission's work, the time of the electoral structures is not the same as the law, which needs to be corrected accordingly. Thus, the project provides for article 31, which deals with the early termination of the commission’s entire membership. It comes down to such positions. First: the mandate of the entire commission may be suspended in time by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the motivated submission of the President of Ukraine. Second, the decision to suspend the entire commission is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no less than two thirds of its constitutional composition. It's a castle of law so as not to make a mistake in this respect. And thirdly, the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine not later than the next day, following the suspension of the full commission, submit proposals to the President of Ukraine for the personal composition of the commission, on the basis of which the President of Ukraine makes a submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the personal composition of the commission within three days, bearing in mind that the commission is working until a member of the commission takes an oath at a parliamentary meeting. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. That's the content of the project. Is there a need to discuss it? Yes. Sign up, please, who wants to discuss the factions. Now individually who wants to speak, please sign in. 15 minutes for everything. No, that's not enough. 20 minutes. Please, Grigorovich of the faction "Our Ukraine." Are you passing it on to anyone? Klukkowski. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich. You can go out to the rostrum. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this bill, initiated by our coalition colleagues, provides for a truly unique situation. I would like to point out that a decision in accordance with this law can only be taken if there is a political consensus. On the one hand, the submission is submitted by the President of Ukraine, on the other hand, to be accepted by two thirds of the Supreme Council. This means that there are no abuses here, either on the part of the President or on the part of the coalition and the decision can really only be taken because there is a political consensus. I sincerely hope that today we have such a political consensus in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u59	Baranowski instead of Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u60	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, a respected colleague of the Socialist faction, supports the bill. At the same time, I would like another comment. The thing is, we only give the President the right to make such a reasoned submission. And if, for example, there is the will of 300 deputies, but for various reasons, the President does not make a reasoned submission, and that is necessary. Why don't we write down one of the points that, according to the President-motivated faction or, say, the parliamentary faction or there, let's say, the rule is to predict 50 national MPs or another number, but such a rule in the law that would allow Parliament to make a reasoned submission and consider it in 300 votes is necessary for it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u61	Okay. Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u62	Please pass it on to Ulysses Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u63	Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u64	Our faction will fully and fully support this bill. But the main time I'd like to give you an explanation of the bills we voted for today. All the bills are divided into three unequal sections. The first bills are those that have been professionally worked, including our deputies, and have been voted in our absence. We've confirmed them. The second colossal number of bills that we haven't voted for today are open-minded lobbying bills that have generated extra revenue from politics, from coalitions, by voting in parliament while we were gone. And the third part of the bill is social bills, including the raising of pensions and salaries, which have been voted by the coalition solely under the pressure of the early elections. Early elections gave birth to social politics in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u65	Once again, I ask you all to refrain from each other's injections. For example, the Law on Budget Change was voted on the basis of the Supreme Council Order and the Cabinet of Ministers initiative, which was adopted in December, when no one had complained about any elections. So you don't have to invent what you don't have. Nodmarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u66	Please give Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u67	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think we should draw particular attention to the very argument that is in the context of the first article about the introduction of a President who should be motivated. It was our suggestion that the law today should contain the rules on which the President could exercise his right. Because during this time, literally in two months, you know that the President issued orders for the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court. If you read these decrees carefully, it does not say at all: On the basis of what he is releasing, this is for breaking an oath. I'm sorry, but the oath, it's a concrete text, it's a concrete action. What were the actions of the judges of the Constitutional Court that the President was releasing them? And the second problem is the legal protection of those who have been released in this case of members of the Central Electoral Commission. I think that's also the question that we should consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u68	Lukyanov, “Regions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u69	Dear Alexander Alexander, please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u71	The distinguished Alexander Alexandrovich, the distinguished people's deputies, the distinguished voters, the fundamental difference between the work of the Janukovic Government and the ability on the one hand to achieve the highest rates of economic growth, and the ability to convert economic growth into an increase in the social standards of people's lives. For the first time in 16 years, for 4 months, the Government, as a result of economic growth, had twice proposed that Parliament adjust its increase, initially by 7.5 billion, then by 5 billion, and propose that these amounts be directed towards raising social standards for people's lives. Unlike the Government of Timoshenko, which dealt exclusively with populism, it was therefore only eight months in the post of Prime Minister. Now that, specifically under the bill, the bill should indeed be adopted, because it was completely unclear: how could there be 186 representatives of the Party of Regions in Parliament, and there was not one representative in the CWC. What transparency of democracy and the integrity of elections can be discussed? Well, another nuance specifically, in paragraph 3, where it is stated that “the President of Ukraine, within three days, should submit to the Supreme Council a submission concerning the personal composition of the commission” so that we do not, as it was suggested, assume that the President should not be tempted to be guided by the Prime Minister's Constitution when he felt that the rule was not binding, he might even think: to introduce or not, although there is an educated coalition, he should automatically introduce the Prime Minister. That's why, in my opinion. In order not to be tempted, and not to give the President any thought to anything else, here to write more strongly that “the President of Ukraine has three days to make a commitment, and on the other hand: not to introduce and to think, but to make a commitment not to be tempted to play the other way, because he will not like any candidatures that have been made by the political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u72	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u73	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I am very sorry that I have not been able to get seriously acquainted with these projects, so I am forced to make my proposal for an amendment to the text that we are proposing right now in the room. The new article is proposed for us: “Destructive termination of the entire composition of the commission”. The idea is that the powers of the entire commission can only be terminated early at the initiative of the President, in fact. I think it's wrong. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, which forms the Central Electoral Commission, must have equal rights with the President in this regard. I therefore propose in article 31, which is new in paragraph one, to add the words “and also” to read as follows: “The approval of the entire composition of the commission may be suspended by the Supreme Council on time, as well as by the reasoned submission of the President of Ukraine”, because only the President, as we read, has the right to raise such questions. I think it's wrong, and so I ask you to vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u74	Hold on, hold on, hold on. Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u75	Dear friends! I don't know who wrote this article, which of the great lawyers, but I'm drawing your attention to the phrase, which is that, it sounds like the "motivated submission of the President." This is not a legal norm. If you'll excuse me, the President's order to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council seems to be motivated by someone who seems unmotivated. If what Alla Aleksadrowska is proposing is a proposal, then there is a legal conflict in general: the Supreme Council can make unmotivated contributions, and the President is only motivated. So in order to get out of this colony, I propose to delete the phrase “twisted submission”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u76	Artemenko said. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u77	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Fellow dignitaries, our faction supports the adoption of such an article. First, when we talk about motivated, there were discussions. In fact, the President was instilling his orders. But whether this motivation was legitimate or illegal, that's the problem. And second moment. We need to think about the proposal made by Alexandrovsky. Of course, we have to give this opportunity, first of all to the Supreme Council, because we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. And about the third point. The third point, indeed, is to write down the obligation to make it mandatory. What the President wants is what he does, especially when he's being pushed by some adventurers from the Administration, or opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u78	Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u79	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I also support this bill. But there are warnings, certain warnings. I think it makes sense for us to listen to the proposal made by the representative of Alexandrovska. Because, in fact, over the last two months, we have seen motivation when, in the absence of the grounds provided for in the 90th article of the Constitution, decrees were issued, and this was said to be a higher piloting of legal and practical motivation. So there must be some opposition because certain rights are added to the President. That's the first one. And second of all. In fact, the third point is imperative, because there might be a conflict that might have arisen when the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers were approved. Candidates, candidatures can be submitted to the Supreme Council and may not be submitted. That's why we need an imperative rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u80	Thank you. Teryohin has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u81	Thank you. When we adopted a version of this law, we talked about reaching a political consensus. If it is a political consensus, then there can be no such word as motivated or unmotivated, since it is incomprehensible who motivates it and how this motivation can be assessed as motivated. The second question. Alexander’s or Chechtov’s proposal once again undermines this political consensus. This structure is based on a voluntary, normal structure. On a voluntary, normal, for example, contact between the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine, and this is an exceptional case of why this could happen to the entire CBC. Therefore, the word “motivated” should be accepted as proposed with the exception of the word “motivated”. And the rest, Alexander Alexander, literally, three of these. Mr. Chechetov, I advise you not to talk about the economy today. When the real income of the population fell by 13.6 in the first quarter, look at you, when last month, for the first time, the average earnings in Ukraine fell by almost 1 percent since 1998, it never was! When more capitals fled in the first quarter than it did in Ukraine, you would be silent about your economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u82	Vyziewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u83	Vladimir Jazynowski "Our Ukraine". Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u84	One way to determine when to clap is to clap. Or I don't know when they're applauding, whether they're dropping wages, or they're saying something. Clear. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich! From an ethical point of view, of course, I wouldn't want to give any evaluations to the political decision to terminate the commission's mandate, but I would like to refer yours to as a very important fact to me. The point is that in an editorial, as proposed by the coalition, it is a matter of cessation, of a permanent suspension of the powers of the members of the commission, such an editorial is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The point is that the Ukrainian law of June 30, 2004, which was in fact based on the previous constitution and was about to end the term of office because the Constitution's entry in 1996 was about to end the term of office. But in the Act of Amendments to the Constitution, we changed that. Now in the Constitution, it's about early retirement, and I'm reading literally, "On discharge from office." And I personally faced this problem when my powers were suspended, because for a long time, the Supreme Council could not determine what to do with me or stop my authority or quit my office. They finally decided to resign, because in this part it's the rule of the Constitution of direct action, and the law is in conflict with the Constitution. And so, according to the Transitional Regulations in law, other legal acts that conflict with the Constitution do not work in this part. And that's why we don't have to go against the Constitution in the future, but we need to change the 30th article you're talking about because it doesn't correspond to a valid constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u86	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u87	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, I see that there are five signatures on the draft Law. I don't see who signed off on the Communists, but there are five signatures. The bill is balanced, so it can only be put into effect if there is consensus, i.e. if there is agreement between both the President and two thirds of the Supreme Council. Otherwise it just won't work. We can throw away, we can leave the word "motivated". Does anyone doubt that the President's submission will have a motivation? Of course she will. If this motivation is not true for two thirds of the Supreme Council, they will not accept it. That's why I want to reassure both Alexandrovsky's deputy and others who suggest that such an initiative can be taken by the Supreme Council. If we put this in paragraph 3a, this bill will make the law unbalanced. The Supreme Council will have such powers, there will be no other possibility for the President. So this long preparation of this bill, which was made by the working group, I think they've done a lot of work, and they've taken into account all the factions that might arise as a result of the introduction of this law. So I'm not proposing to change anything in this bill, but the procedure was sort of agreed and it wasn't meant to be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u88	Matthewnkov instead of Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u89	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, we have indeed worked on this bill for quite a long time and have had the positions that have been discussed for a long time. And I'd like to talk about them. Motivated. Indeed, the President's motivation and explanation must be that he must convince 300 people or at least explain the situation. With regard to the right of the Supreme Council itself and the President to make these proposals separately, we have determined that weights should be here. It must be a system of interaction between both the President and the Parliament. That is, if it is a political decision, it must be a single political decision for one part, and we will speak for the second branch of power. That's why it would be here, and that would be the right record. But in the last paragraph of part three, which we're talking about, in order for the President to really have no temptation, not to submit the composition that the coalition has worked up, which he has been handed over with the opposition together, I think it would be appropriate to write here that he is obliged to convey. Because there is no alternative in this option and no other mechanism for the President to block the work of the CIA in some way and the agreed moments of all the political forces that come to its table cannot be audited and it cannot already revise that opinion, but simply transmits it to the Supreme Council, that would be logical, that would be right. And the last. In two words, I would like to say a few words about the examples that are here, who voted for what and how. I want to say one thing, one, you should never take numbers for granted, and the figures should be analyzed as hard as they are, so to speak, they were not for someone's conclusions, you have to look the truth in the face and see that truth in the face. And in some bills, if there is a business at stake, it is not worth reacting so painfully and saying that one part of Parliament is interested in usurping, we will say so, one way or another. It must be said that, under all the laws enacted here, 53 had no lobbyist laws, and lobbyism was alone, the interests of the people of Ukraine and the interests of the State of Ukraine. Based on that, we came out here today and there's nothing to blame for any part of it that she was trying to pull on herself. There is absolutely no such thing in any law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u90	Thank you. Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Infantry, faction of the Ukraine region. I have two observations. First. Certainly, it is difficult enough to pass such a law at once, for we must compare it with all the normative acts that have been adopted before. But given that all the factions have already agreed, I have a first-point offer. Motivated, indeed, to take off, because everyone can have a very different motive and a very difficult one to agree with and write, “To present the President with a basis”, the rationale is much more than motivated or unmotivated. And for the third point. The third point is that it's too weak and it's already been amended to the Constitution, the amendments and the reforms themselves have shown that a number of positions that have been written down, I want to pass, I don't want to pass, I don't want to pass, I don't want to pass, So I'd like to make a third point about whether or not to make proposals to factions, really, justified also, not to be that someone, someone, for some reason, doesn't like it and that's why it's not being submitted or restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u92	Timishenko replica and Chechtho’s replica. And you do, too, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u93	Please tell Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that when we learn that there will be an early election, we have come here in a peace-loving mood and are ready to support it until the end until we make all our decisions. However, I'd like to remind a man here in this room who plays the role of a flugger or something, which means mechanical and such a sleazebag, I don't know. I want to remind him, I understand his more human beings, I understand that he wakes up even with his lips and a wet, cold vessel in the word "Julia Timoshenko". I mean, Mr. Chechchev. Because of that, I would very much ask you, as a man, to restrain your nerves, because if you continue to do so, we have a very good tool against you, we will publicly read your interrogation protocol when you led the State Property Fund, that's where it's all told how you and who you've been giving away. I'm betting on that dot and I'm asking you to stop this insinuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u95	Chechtev, it's very convenient for you to answer. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u96	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! There are words, there are cases. I would like to reiterate once again that no Government has been able to do what the Government of Yanukovic has done. Not only to ensure a sustained pace of economic growth, but in four months, twice to the Supreme Council, it is proposed that the earned additional financial resources of seven and a half billion be converted into an increase in social standards. In addition, it was decided to increase salaries and pensions by the end of the year. That's a fact. And the facts are stubborn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u97	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u98	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Alexandrovich, I have really listened to all the comments that have been made here, and I insist on my amendment, and I would like to remind the representatives of the orange factions that the MP has the right to legislative initiative. And that's the Constitution. Therefore, no one has the right, so to speak, to listen to my proposal. That is why we, I demand that this be voted on. In view of the comments made, I also support the proposal in the second part of article 31 prima. “Decision on the permanent termination of all commission’s powers” adds in brackets: “. ” [[short-term discharge from commission members]] So that there is no contradiction in the submission of relevant records in the workbook. That is, in the first part, once again, “The authorization of the entire composition of the commissions may be suspended on time by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, I add, by the reasoned submission of the President of Ukraine.” And in the second part, he's going to add in parentheses -- early release from commission positions. I'm explaining what a stop is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u99	May I have your attention, please, to exchange your thoughts. And thank God everyone's exchanged. What I'm saying is that all of these thoughts don't fit to be reflected in the document. Let me explain why. Well, first of all, termination and dismissal are different things. So you can't put these things together in this document. We may, for example, suspend the authority of the Supreme Council, but the deputy remains at work if he does not write his own release application. And it's all normal, and it's not the same institution of power that's practiced. Second, when we say he's making an offer and they say he needs to write. The language goes that the law always has an imperative character. And this is the President’s duty. You can't write that down, but let's just write it down, "you have to bring it in" and so on. That's not correct. Everyone. Thus, we should not be attached to it. Yes, of course, to a particular president. Listen. We are writing a universal document that will be used by both today's President and today's deputies, and future deputies, and future presidents. That's why you can't write it. If we write down, "and also," as Alla Alexandrovna said, that means we are interfering with the Constitution, because it clearly determines what the President is introducing and the Supreme Council is appointing. If only, “and also” means that we are repealing the Constitution, which gives us such a binding right of the President and the Supreme Council. You can't do that. In terms of motivated, you have to write this down. Either motivated or, as Vladimir Juliusovich said, based on the reasons, it is the same. For example. can't be like that, for example, fired for breaking an oath and nothing else. This is not a moot decision, because we have a Constitution that is based on and based on the proper institutions of power, and the President is also an institution of power, he can't make decisions outside the law even if it is provided for in the Constitution. It can be implemented in accordance with article 19 of the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, the word “motivated” has to be written because it is a reference to the need to justify the decision. I can put either "motivated" or "based on grounds". And finally. It's said, what's the motivation when the factions are given. They're motivated by their position. When the President generalizes them, he motivates his position and then he makes proposals to the Supreme Council, explaining his submission. And if it's not convincing to the MPs, they don't give 300 votes, and no decision is made. So the balance of interests is maintained here. I'd like us to consider that. And one more thing. The point here is that in the Constitution, it seems that Ruslan Petrovich talked about this, the Constitution does not regulate the order of termination of the function of the CBC. And each structure created by the Supreme Council should have an explanation of how it terminates its function. So if that's what we regulate by law, even though it would seem better if it were reflected in the Constitution, which I can agree with. But in the law, such a rule can be predicted today. That's one thing. And finally there. I ask you once again not to be reptiles by anyone who thinks of a woman on the night she's interested, listen to him wet or wet, let's not leave it for parliamentary discussions. Nobody needs that. So I'm voting on the basis of the project that's been given to you in the paper that's been given to you. Please. [[17:42:20]] For 414 Based on the base. And now, in fact, there was one change proposed by the Pehot deputy regarding the replacement of the word “motivated”. The text reads: “On the basis of the President’s statement.” Come on, let's give Pehota a word. Either way, with the President's motivated submission on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u100	Alexandre Alexandrovich, in principle, you made the right amendment. Let's put it this way: "the President's motivated submission on the ground." And that's it, and we will. So both will be. For reasons that are not justified, it is not worth anything. And that's what practice has shown.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u101	I'm voting on this proposal. Please identify yourself. [[17:43:32]] For 252 Well, this proposal is supported, but it's meant to be put in parentheses, because it's going to be a tautology, a repetition of what it is. Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u102	Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, Dear colleagues!, I think we should act on the many hours of consultations that we have held together and which have been effective. The word "motivated submission" is, by the way, Alexandre Alexandrovich, it was your proposal that we agreed with. So right now, I think it's inappropriate to force the President twice to motivate his application. Motivate first and then find the necessary reasons. I would like to go back to the text that is agreed upon by the leaders of the five factions that are discussed at the factions, and it is more than enough for us to vote on these changes to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u103	Powder, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u104	Peter Prashenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I would like to stress once again article 85 on the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Paragraph 21 clearly defines this as the Constitution of Ukraine, and the law cannot contradict it that the powers of the Supreme Council refer to the appointment and discharge of members of the Central Electoral Commission at the request of the President of Ukraine. There is no further requirement that this should be made by the President from factions or from any other, the Constitution of Ukraine does not contain. The compromise reached on the motivated proposal, determined that all five factions should vote for it, is a persistent request not to deviate from the compromise reached. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u105	Peter Alexiyovich, please note that you quoted the standard of the Constitution that applies to a member of the Central Electoral Commission, not the entire Central Electoral Commission. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, believe me, if we write that down. Absolute tautology, well believe me, just as a professional philosopher, well, illiterately that's all. Let's leave the version that was and is agreed upon. Period. You don't have to, illiterately, just-just illiterately, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u107	Please, calm down, calm down, calm down. Baranowski, last trailer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u108	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, first of all, I don't understand when we are being tried here by the national MPs, some people are going to blow their mouths off because he was in a negotiating group of some kind, and they decided there, and here you are, buttonheads, press and vote for it. That's probably why the Supreme Council is supposed to discuss what the group has been working on and then make a decision accordingly. And so I would like to ask you not to humiliate MPs who did not participate in one or the other negotiations. And as for the formation of the CBC. Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko once read the rule of direct law, which refers to the formation of the CBC when it goes under normal conditions. And here we make decisions about how they're going to stop early and how they're going to be formed. And so it seems to me that what Pehot's colleague and other MPs have put forward, they're quite right, and we, more than that, voted today by a majority for the proposal. Please put to the vote in general and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u109	Please, calm down! Dear colleagues, I think we've improved the record "with a basis" of the law, but we've improved it a little bit worse. However, so voted. If you want to vote again to remove this amendment, I can put it if the author insists on doing so in particular. If not, vote as we voted in the first reading. Vladimir Yuliyovich, what do you say? Give me your word, Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u110	I'm sorry. Infantry, faction “Ukraine’s Region”. This discussion has shown that the practice of making decisions without any justification exists. I understand that an agreement has been reached. I understand that we need to compromise, but, people good, those who listen to me today and listen to the Supreme Council, make decisions because someone doesn't like it or doesn't talk like that, or is not dressed like that, or is not healthy or can't! I'm recording my amendment so I don't mess with our arrangement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-29-m0.u111	I take your observation into account, but this amendment is no longer yours. This is an amendment to the Supreme Council, so I ask you to vote on this amendment. Who's in? Please make up your mind. [[17:49:26]] For 355 In general, as we voted in the first reading of Project 3581 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:49:54]] For 414 Decision taken. Thank you. Honorable deputies, questions raised for this evening’s meeting, considered and made a positive decision. I'm announcing the adjournment of the evening session. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the session will begin its work.
