ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, TV sets, radio audiences! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. I remind you that today, May 31st, the last calls at school are coming. A roll call is being made. [[10:08:46]] There are 412 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Let's welcome the nouns: Left Vasilovich Biruk and Valery Dmitrovitch Borisov. [[Applause]] Let them work successfully in the MP’s field and have good health for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday's work programme, we need to take a direct look at the issues put into the agenda. And there's also another circumstance that's going to make this work, because we need to look at the budget changes, and we've called Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov to the meeting. So let's ask this question and we'll look at it first by putting it in the order of the day. So I'm putting the agenda in order of the day, we're voting. [[Now, a minute.]] And then you'll take it. On the inclusion in the agenda of changes in the 2007 State Budget. About getting into the day. Please. [[10:10:51]] For 336 This question is included in the order of day. For reasons, please write this down. Please, five minutes. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u2	Please tell Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u3	No, John Sidorovich, it's for the reasons of the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u4	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I give the word of Vitalia Jakovitch Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u6	Please, Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u7	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. A fast, socialist faction. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we have, indeed, voted now for the issue that Kabmin is now proposing. But we still have to divide it into maybe two parts. The first part is it's really relevant, you can look at it today, what's going on in terms of budget changes. And as for what it takes to finance the election today, it can be slow because it will be 60 days before the election. Let's figure out, we have a September 30th election, and let's set budgets 60 days before the election. I think it's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u8	Kenzier. Oh, Bulba, I'm sorry. Then Kendzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u9	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. So let's do this logically. There is no basis for the elections yet, and we will be taking changes to the budget to finance them. Let's try to solve the problem first -- help Yushchenk make these elections legitimate, make these elections legal. Of course, we are not helping him, but there is a so-called “united opposition”, let them work on it, let 151 people's deputies be authorized, or let those statements be made, and then we'll talk about the need to finance the action they want to call elections, and it's actually a crime to return to power of failures, political failures and those who have lost it free of charge as a result of the elections in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u10	Kenzier. Kenzier, I gave my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u11	Jaroslav Kenzior. Please give the word to the leader of the faction Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u12	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u13	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! We support the idea of the need to consider changes to the State budget today, and the whole complex, as proposed by the government. We welcome the increase in payments, for example, to police co-workers, especially the simple police co-workers offered in this budget, based on the fact that the police will continue to operate only in a legal way and in accordance with the Constitution. But at the same time, we also support the need for the necessary funds to be allocated for the holding of out - of - turn elections, which will certainly take place. So please consider this bill now, but we insist on a reduced procedure, because it is clear to everyone not to prolong the solution to the political crisis, to limit the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u14	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u15	Ivan Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Well, of course, the issue of budget changes needs to be considered, but the package of agreements included election laws, a number of other laws. And we started work without having the order of today’s session. I'd like to ask, Alexander Alexanderovich, to inform you about this agenda and other issues that are planned to be considered today, because this is not an appropriate way to spend work time. With regard to the consideration of the issue, it is certain that, after a reduced procedure, and certainly, the issue of budget changes cannot be divided by a separate issue of electoral financing. Only political bankruptcys and political failures, and political shulers don't want elections, Ukraine already believes that without an election it is impossible to get out of the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u16	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u17	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this Chamber we are now trying to commit a grave violation of the Constitution, the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council and, by the way, the agreements reached by the President, the Prime Minister and you, as President of the Supreme Council. You agreed that the legitimacy of the early elections would arise after Yushchenko issued another decree, which he would issue on the basis of the compositions of powers by 150 people's deputies from the Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine factions. Only then would there be legal grounds for early elections. What 365 million we can talk about today, and I, as a member of the Budget Committee, voted in a meeting of the Budget Committee against such a decision. Today we do not fulfil our obligations to the children of war, today we are paying little money to pay back our contributions, today we have no social problems with wage debts on state-owned enterprises. And we're referring 365 bracelets to unknowns.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u18	Thank you. We used the time to express our motives. A few remarks, you've obviously noticed that in the draft Budget Act, it's about a fourth of a part, I'm asking you, let me finish, and the rest is about extremely important issues that relate to the location of drought-related problems and other issues, the increase in wages, and so on. In addition, we are able to write down a rule in the Budget Law that confirms the use of these articles in connection with elections only if everything you talk about comes into play. We, once again, believe in a government subordinated to the Supreme Council. Please, Mikola Janovich. I give my word for the report, Mikoli Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u19	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Changes in the budget for the current year are proposed today, which are now suggested in your view of the need to address the most pressing issues of the present. The main ones are financial security, early election of Ukrainian national deputies. As before, the government’s position is that expenditure on this goal should be carried out in clear compliance with valid legislation. The bill therefore provides for a separate budget programme for the Central Electoral Commission of 365 million dollars for the preparation and conduct of the election of Ukraine’s national deputies. The source of this expenditure is the cost of the single treasury account, which was accumulated in 2006 as a result of overturning the budget's income plan. Another pressing issue today is prejudice over negative trends caused by spring drought. With the aim of overcoming the effects of adverse weather conditions, the budget has provided an additional 100 million dollars to finance the costs associated with the formation of a government food reserve, mortgage purchases, and intervention in the agrarian market. 50 million dollars for the provision of agricultural products that were affected by spring drought by crop seeds in 2008. 120 million dollars for the reserve fund to be directed primarily to cover the damage suffered by agricultural enterprises affected by the spring drought this year. The changes to the 2007 budget, which you have accepted, have started in March of this year with a process of raising the level of military and military funding. I was delighted to hear how this decision of parliament and government was personally promoted by the Minister of Defense. This is a powerful example of how political preferences do not hinder an objective assessment of coalition decisions. The bill, which is under consideration today, provides additional funds for the continuation of the phased elimination of imbalances in the financial security of employees in the power structures. I would like to point out that, unlike previous years in 2007, the rise is not about higher rank, but about the rank, the junior, the primary and the officer composition. In particular, a total of $217.3 million is allocated to increase the financial security of the central, junior, primary, and regular organs of internal affairs. This means that the average monthly cash provision of one militia member of the listed category will increase by at least 1,250 dollars compared to the beginning of the year. The budget changes also provide an additional 2 million dollars to raise the financial security of the junior officer’s warehouse and the flags of the Department of Public Protection. On average, the money provided by such troops will increase by 235 dollars a month. In order to avoid rising prices for coal and electricity, it is also envisaged that 100 million dollars be spent on coal companies to partially cover the cost of goods. This is due to an increase in the minimum wage by the end of this year. The additional funding for the development of the regions will be channelled: 16 million dollars to finance local socio-economic development programmes; 2 million dollars to increase the amount of additional government budget grants, Slavutic; 9 million dollars to increase the amount of subsidies to local regional infrastructure development budgets; and 2 million dollars to social and economic development subsidies, Bila Church. In addition, there is an increase of 30 million dollars in the cost of maintaining the safety of waterways, inland waterways, and the construction of a dam in the Danube - Black Sea canal project. I would like to remind you that the creation of this deep-sea waterway is extremely important for the entire state. In order to properly execute the judiciary and to pay off the creditors’ debt in the past years, the State Court Administration has increased the expenditure by 31 million dollars, including to date. For courts of 11.9 million dollars, for utility and energy services 3.8 million dollars, for the payment of the out-of-service aid to judges for the release of 1.3 million dollars, for the organizational security of the courts and for the administration of the judicial system 2 million dollars, for the provision of courts with adequate premises of 12 million dollars. The financial resource is, the financial resource for the additional expenditure of the bill is: First. Additional revenue from the budget for the activation of external economic activity is $811.4 million. It's different. Costs of a single treasury account that was accumulated in 2006 due to overturning the budget's income plan. In the end, I will note that fiscal policy is closely linked to the economy and I am deeply surprised by the comments made by some national advocates regarding the economic policy of our government. Economics are rising or not at the highest rate in Europe, inflation remains the lowest in years of independence, wages and pensions are gradually increasing. Moreover, the budget for improving the well-being of our fellow citizens did not stop economic development because they were not populist. Sadly, in the midst of a political struggle, our opponents are not thinking about the future of the state but about their own political future. Political forces should not be united for the sake of political opposition, and much time has been wasted. Our fellow citizens expect another, and they want to be confident that tomorrow, people who are unable to work in a state of health will receive worthy assistance from the State. A person who had reached retirement age and worked his whole life was granted a decent pension. A person who can work has a job and a decent salary. It is about providing these directions that we are working purposefully, and this year's budget is a vivid witness. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget for 2007 in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u20	Is there a question to Nikola Janovich? Please sign up. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u21	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Good morning! Dear Mikolo Janovich, of course, we are all anxious to take over all our political situations now, to perceive what is happening in the fields today in Ukraine, and, of course, what hurts the soul is that you know better than I do about what has already been burned, in fact, everything in the south of Ukraine has been destroyed. I realize that the government has already responded to this situation by putting 70 million dollars into the purchase of the variety seed there and so forth. In your opinion, this sum, which is 8 billion 235 million, which is set up for, in addition to agriculture, is enough for us to avoid that possible disaster that is indeed with bread for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u22	We have allocated everything we can, and as the economy spends extra money, we will send them to support the agrarian complex. In the coming days, the Government will make a comprehensive decision, and it has already been developed, to provide immediate assistance to our agriculture. However, we are already working practically in our areas, especially the southern ones, without waiting for this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u23	Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u24	Dear Nikolai Janović, we understand very well that the budget is to be increased to an immeasurable size, I beg your pardon for tautology, it is not possible and we understand very well that, once more than five billion funds have been increased to address social issues, it is also very difficult to find additional sources. [[Efraemov, Party of Regions, Lugansk Region]] But I would like the answers to two questions. First question: How was the Cabinet of Ministers guided by what document when it introduced the funding line for early election of deputies? And the second question is, do you think what you're going to do is, well, it's going to put a lot of problems in the regions if we take 900 with more than a million dollars to finance local subsidies that fall into the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u25	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich, first of all, the Cabinet of Ministers does not withdraw a single copy of the subsidy to local budgets, on the contrary, we increased these subsidies by a last decision that came into force yesterday and was published yesterday. With regard to early elections, the Cabinet of Ministers has consistently implemented the agreements set out in the political statement of the three leaders of our State. You know this statement, you know these decisions. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers fulfils part of its commitment to the Prime Minister by signing the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u26	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u27	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Nikolai Janović, I have four specific questions. First, did the budget that was voted on or legalized yesterday and voted before us? First question. Second question. Here many deputies spoke of the headaches we have today in agriculture. I have a concrete suggestion that if they don't have a headache, let's add 370 to the 70 million that they're going to throw in an incomprehensible to what the so-called elections are going to be. And then, I think our agriculture will breathe much better. Second moment. Why is the source of this funding still budget deficit? How are we going to cover up? Is there no other source of coverage for these things? Because the rationale for these things must still be economic, other than political. And one last moment. What happened: why was 19 million added to the Presidential Administration? Why did the Security Service add two million? What does that have to do with anything? There was no such action. What exactly did this money go for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u28	So the budget that you and I adopted together on the fourth of May, which included the introduction of the first phase of the single tariff network, was published yesterday and entered into force. Since first June, all our budget staff will receive an increase in salaries accordingly. However, there are a number of other social solutions. With regard to agriculture. We allocate 270 million dollars, not 70 million dollars, to agriculture. In addition, only those areas that have now been affected by drought. This amount is significant and will largely address the challenges posed in our Western areas. With regard to the Office of Public Security, I said in my statement that two million was an increase in the salary of the Office's junior staff. It is being implemented in accordance with decisions taken by the Government to raise the wages of the Ministry of Defence, other forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u29	Give me a chance to finish. Talk to me. Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u30	The Ministry of Finance respects financial discipline whether it is the secretariat of the President or the Cabinet of Ministers or other organizations. There is no political division for us. And if the Presidential Administration has accumulated debts over past periods and these debts are blocked by the organization, it is very important for us to pay off those debts. The same is true of all ministries and departments. Let's punish him. There's a lot of people there to punish if you remember. Come on, let's calm down first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u31	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u32	With regard to the financial deficit. 365 million, you ask the question as if you were from the President's Secretariat. That's the President's Secretariat when he denied my argument, too, and why don't you and the election fund with additional sources of economic income? What I said was that we are all additional incomes, additional income from the economy, either on social issues or on current issues that arise in the economy. This is the position that we will finance from the budget deficit. Nothing to worry about, 365 million is one tenth of that deficit.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u33	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u34	Dear reporter! Your report, unfortunately, had too much politics. You're making political assessments. Neither the Minister of Finance nor the Ministry have the right to conduct evaluation and politics. But that's not the point. Yesterday, I listened to a speech by the distinguished deputy prime minister of agriculture. It was a panic show. He said everything was gone, nothing could be sifted. Whoever was born and lived in the village knows that you can sift until June 15th, and they know when you can sow Greek and when you can cut a sheep. Why is it that the government's mood, or does it have the right of a vice-premier, speaks on behalf of the government that there's nothing that can be sifted? Is it politics, or is it a mistake?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! First, not only am I the Minister of Finance, but I am the first Vice-President of the Government and may have the right to express my political views. Second, with regard to the presentations, I would now refrain from making any sharp and serious assessments of what was going on. Enough for the Government to keep this situation under control. With regard to the number of losses suffered to date, they are estimated at various estimates, from 10 to 15 per cent of the area of sowing in the southern regions. It's a dangerous number, but it's not critical to our agrarian complex. So I wouldn't be making any panic assessments. With regard to the timing of the transfer, this issue of agrarian technology, if the land is dry, is also known to everyone. Therefore, transfers will only take place in those areas that have an adequate supply of wooe, and we will mainly make the resources available for the acquisition of seeds, which will ensure that they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u36	I ask you to invest in time taken for answers and questions, considering that Oleg Grigorovitch had the opportunity to study the situation in the agricultural sector and is now asking these questions. Bondarchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u37	National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear Mikola Janovich, the steps taken by the parliamentary coalition and the government to raise wages, pensions and other social benefits are very positive in society. And this over and over again confirms our sequence in the implementation of the promises we made to the electorate. But the question is, when we're practically implementing claims for an increase of 320 million dollars in the current year's expenditure on citizens' lost savings, these are the unrefundable costs last year? And we've basically reached such a gentleman's agreement, and now we've practically got to translate it into this kind of budget plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u38	Well, that's the problem. You know, with the previous budget, we have added a significant amount to the return of the population of the devalued contributions, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u39	Thank you, sit down, please. Mr. MacKeenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u40	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear Mikola Janovich! Dear National Deputies! The Budget Committee, taking into account the time requirements of its meeting yesterday, considered a bill amending the State Budget Act 2007 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers at registration number 3590. The main objective of the bill is to create the necessary financial conditions for the conduct of the election of Ukraine's national deputies. To this end, the government has foreseen 365 million dollars, which corresponds fully to the Central Electoral Commission's accounts to our committee. Another important issue that will be addressed by this bill is the allocation of funds to agriculture to eliminate the effects of spring drought. A bill by the Ministry of Agriculture proposes to increase the cost of creating and providing a reserve of 50 million dollars of hybrid seed for the production and maintenance of a government food reserve by an agrarian fund for the purchase, commercial and financial intervention of 100 million dollars in an organized agrarian market. In addition, there has been an increase of 120 million dollars in the cost of the reserve fund, which will be directed primarily to cover the actual damage suffered by agricultural enterprises. In general, the bill has increased the expenditure and lending of the state budget by one billion 191 million dollars due to an increase in the income of 811 million dollars and a contribution of 365 million dollars to the balance of the general fund. Thus, the budget resources proposed by the government to increase the corresponding budget expenditure are balanced, realistic and justified. In conclusion, the government bill is balanced and meets the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion to this bill, notes that a bill can be adopted on a basis. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a bill under registration number 3590 on the basis and generally, as the Law, taking into account the following changes: Increase the income of the General Fund of the State Budget under code 14010300, Tax on Added Costs from Goods Imported into Ukraine, by 106 million dollars. Increase the total expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget by 106 million dollars, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by 15 million dollars, including code 1401010 “Leading and Managing State Policy on Foreign Relations” by 6 million 500,000 dollars. Including the cost of consumption of 5 million dollars. Under code 1401030, “Function of foreign diplomatic institutions” for development expenditure of 5 million 500 thousand dollars. Include in the budget program code 1401800 “Construction of the complex of buildings” in the amount of 3 million bracelets. The Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection for 60 million dollars from the Chernobyl disaster. Under code 3201280, "Civil protection measures" for expenditure and consumption of 51 million dollars, of which 38 million dollars. Code 321510 “Maintenance of environmental security in estranged and unconditionally displaced areas” for development expenditure of 9 million dollars. The Department of Defense's Chief Intelligence in the area of defence, 31 million dollars. Make appropriate changes to article 1 and Appendix 1 by number 1 and 3. In article 38 of the Law, replace the digits “240, 70, 60” with “500, 10, 60”. In the second part of article 34, the figures “.306.601.5 10.911.7 446. 136.7 11.079 106. 054.4 and substitute 1.331.098 with 11.694.3 464. 595,7 11.339,8 and 111. 048.5. Complete chapter 7 with the final position of the Law of Ukraine in paragraph 4. Attention! Please. To establish that expenditure under the budget programme for the conduct of the non-recurrent elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies is incurred in the event of the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies not earlier than 29 September 2007. Moreover, our colleagues are respected, according to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u41	Let me finish the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u42	According to the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, allocate 2.5 million dollars in connection with the death of our colleague of the People’s Deputies of Bibi. [[on payment of insurance to families of deceased, dead national deputies]] It is proposed to support a bill prepared by the government that takes into account the Committee’s stated proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u43	What questions are before the committee’s head? Please sign up. Ten minutes. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u44	Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, you've been listening to the speaking populist of the so-called opposition from the BUT faction, which in agriculture does not understand either boom or boom. And it's been standing under the dome of Parliament for 15 years, and today it's noted that Deputy Prime Minister Slaut has said something wrong. Yes, Slauta said it all right, he said that there are separate areas in Ukraine that, in fact, this year might not have to be sifted. As far as you are concerned, remind those populists, who do not do what they say, that Ukraine is experiencing a drought, the village is experiencing it. On the contrary, they pray that everything in Ukraine will be dried up and that they will not lie about what they feel about the village. And the government and the coalition in Parliament will do anything to ensure that Ukraine has bread before.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u45	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u46	Dear Paul Gnatovich, thank you for asking. I remind you once again, budget programs for the creation and provision of a reserve of Class and Hybrid seed have increased by 50 million dollars to provide agricultural seed for 2008 crops, as well as a budget programme for the formation of a national food reserve by an agrarian fund for the acquisition of commercial and financial interventions in an organised agricultural market, to create a food reserve of 100 million dollars. In addition, an increase of 120 million dollars was made in the cost of a reserve fund to cover actual losses caused by the spring drought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u47	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u48	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. The Socialist faction. Vladimir Vladimirović, you've gone through the subject so quickly that it relates to the amount allocated to the elections, as if everything had been well read and the Central Electoral Commission had indeed done it very hard. I was going to ask you. First. What criteria have been taken as the basis for, in fact, if the elections are to be held, we will not come to the conclusion that this money, as it has been in the past, will be requested by the Central Electoral Commission. It's just direct money, for direct expenses, that is, for the content of the commission, for the printing of ballot papers and so on. Whether it takes into account that the voter register still needs to be drawn up. If it comes together, because that's what it says in the statement three. What kind of money it's going to be for is budget money, or somewhere we're going to be looking for that money on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u49	Dear Vitaly Jakovic, thank you for asking. As for the amount allocated to the election, 365 million dollars. What was the direction of the committee when it made such a decision? Well, first of all. We have a call from the Central Electoral Commission. You know, the history of early elections already has a history. The first letter, which came from the head of the Central Electoral Commission, amounted to 312 million dollars. But there was a two - month deadline for the election. Now we have about three months according to the political arrangements that we have. So it went from 312 million to 365 million dollars. The other one. We guided this decision by the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the voter register, this is a separate subject. We didn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u50	Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u51	Alexandre Alexandrovich, Lapin's handing it over to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u52	Well, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u53	Alexandre Alexandrovich, Lapin is passing it on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u54	Yeah, that's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u55	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I'm a member of the Committee on Budgets, but I've lost track of it, even though we still don't have an imperative mandate. Can you please tell us which elections we're taking on June 26th or September 30th? Because I listened to you and I didn't understand. If it is September 30, there is no basis for the negotiations reached by three individuals and decisions taken. There is no such decision. And the second. You said to make a decision -- changes to the budget in general, but it's a rule for attitude, not for laws. We are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u56	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Juliusovich, for your questions. Well, with your experience, if you don't understand what's going on, we're having a hard time. I will remind you once again in my speech of the formation proposed for the vote: to establish that the expenditure under the budget programme for the holding of the election of Ukraine's national deputies is in the event that the election of Ukraine's national deputies is not in the past. As of September 29, 2007. And as for your second question, part two. The Budget Committee is further invited to support a bill prepared by the government that takes into account the above-mentioned proposals made by the committee, which are given to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u57	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u58	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Well, I would like to remind honourable colleagues, including members of the budget committee, that at least the last budget and all the amendments to it have been accepted as a basis and in general practically without discussion, although I am not a proponent of this type of legislation. And the question is this. You said here: the allocation of funds for the election is not until September 29th. So if the September 30th election, how do you figure that out? So it's probably going to take a little bit earlier than that to secure this technological process. And nobody paid attention to: you said -- very real compromises. This question, rather, to Mikola Janovich, I was unable to ask because it was not my turn. But a tax on the added value of imported products. We're dumping Ukraine with imported products. Why do taxes, customs, excise duties, and other congregations not grow? Obviously. We have a reserve on this and we can work on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor Eugene Ivanovich, you are a very active member of the Committee on Budgets. As for the second part of your question. The value added tax on imported goods in Ukraine during the four months of this year was 13 billion. The figure, which is 54 percent higher than last year’s expected annual growth rate, is 30 percent. In addition, the January-April plan for this payment was implemented by 111 percent. So an increase of 790 million. The bracelet is real before execution, taking into account the significant increase in imports compared to the projections that were. As for the date of the early elections, it was sounded by political leaders on September 30, you know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u60	Polishchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, we're kind of saying that there's no policy on this issue, but I'd like to ask one of the specific questions. Well, it's like we're congratulating on raising wages to a junior officer at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. More than 50 million were also allocated to the Ministry of Emergency Situations. But we did not offend the army today, but nothing is said about the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like to say that there, in fact, today's "Alpha" service and so on -- there's thousands of dollars for boys there, and they're doing pretty dangerous questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the Bill to the Ministry of Emergency Situations gives 60 million dollars. We have substantially raised the level of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in previous changes. After the army, we made a decision with you earlier. Today we're making the Department of Defense's Chief Intelligence, adding 31 million dollars. Your point is correct with respect to the employees of the BSS. There are, in fact, highly professional officers, officials. Get on with this job. Believe me, it's very difficult to work on a committee where there's a quorum on the edge. Come on, give me your suggestions. We have a lot of time with you before September 30, and we can take some good changes in this room for our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u63	Bubbles. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u64	I am, after all. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Nevertheless, I am convinced that we must first legitimize lawlessness with these early elections, more loyally, not to us, but to the opposition, and then to plan funding. How do you feel about that, Vladimir Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u65	Such a delicate question. What the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, failed to decide, you want me to give you an answer from this rostrum. I'm an MP to the Supreme Council. I can share my experience. Everything we've done logically, everything we've done under the law, it lives and thrives so far, starting with the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, the Act of State Sovereignty, the Constitution and so forth. Anything that doesn't make sense, it won't make any sense. So I expressed the opinion of the committee from this rostrum. I have no right to think otherwise, because this is a committee decision. I told you myself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u66	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anyone who would like to comment on the project, please sign in. It's from factions. Individually now, please. 15 minutes, please, Baranowski from the Socialist faction. Then Kovtunenko of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u67	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished audiences! I'd like to go back to the logic of our actions. We're always programmed when we're budgeting any action on the development of any sector or raising social standards, then we're doing it logically, we're going to specify some parameters, whether they're already set and we're going to spend the right amount. At the same time, we're spending today on extracurricular elections that are not yet available, where there's no legal basis for them to be held, and we're allocating funds. Well, it all reminds me of something, there's no criminal yet, and his sentence is already signed. And they don't know who that is. Why are we doing this? I think we're in negotiations and when we're talking. The three-way talks were held by the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, and they all refer to the fact that they have to go on a legitimate basis. This is a venerable opposition, give these legitimate bases and let's hold elections. The election coalition is not afraid. But you do not give such a legal basis at all. So perhaps it is not an accident that you are speaking to the deputies today that you want to put in your mandates. Please, 151 mandates -- and there's no problem. But, please, I would like you to think about the report before the people of Ukraine: If you refuse to be national deputies, you form, you want to be authorized, do you have the moral right to go through the election of the national MPs at all? Is there not such a right? If you don't want to, you don't want to. And I, my esteemed colleagues, I'm making an offer, we need to do this and we need to pass the law that once I've drawn up the parliamentary powers, he doesn't want to work, as it's in any position, then he has no right to fly, spend state money and torture all of our society. And one more thing. 365 million dollars spent today on elections. This amount is enough to make loans to peasants all over Ukraine under these programs that they are borrowing today. Such grief is being created on the street, that if Mikola Janovich didn't say that it would be large or small, the consequences would be enormous, because this drought, and not just the drought, would hit the villages and all our consumers, that we would feel it all. And 365 million, once again, let the peasants hear it, that's the amount that's enough to make loans to peasants all over Ukraine. Let us, then, reflect on who today is saving for the village, for supporting the village, and who today is saving for his political ambitions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u68	Kovtunenko, please, Block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u69	Dear Head, honourable deputies, distinguished head of the Committee on Budgets, Reverend Mikola Janovich! You know, I wanted to say with a little talk, very short change to Appendix 3. Regrettably, article 34 did not include some municipal services for our firefighters. There's not a large amount -- 36 million dollars -- 200,000 dollars, I'd like to ask coffee for 3 million 201, 280 to account for, because Ukrainian firemen, unfortunately, are without pay, without heat. I'd like to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u70	Thank you. Jebravski from “Our Ukraine”, please. It's not Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u71	Hello, dear fellows, we've been hearing the government's response lately on the third time they've changed their budget to increase. From the beginning, however, we said that the budget didn't account for 13 billion dollars, it's like sports, you put a billboard at 20 centimetres and you jump high, but you need a plank high enough, then you could raise the salary and for the militias, which is what you have to do for the emenists, and for all the wages you have to raise and pay for the problems that are in the village. I think my colleagues were here today saying that 365 million to vote is the kind of money that's missing in the country. I don't think it was necessary at the time for the Commodore Authority to sell and sell such a lousy Lugansk track. Then billions could be directed to the problem that is in the village, could be billions directed to equalize, to make tariffs for all military officials, that such a position, whether in Yemen, in the militia or in the U.S.A. today, should be given the same salary. And with the coefficient on special terms, and that would be correct. Dear colleagues, 365 million of whom are singled out, you have heard the minister of finance, not from the income of the budget, but from the surpluses that have been going on since last year. So let me tell you, for today, there are 400 million dollars left over. Not to worry about what may not be done there, there will be a need for parliamentary powers, elections, and we will use this money. But another 400 million dollars lie, and because of that, your sending for this money to go somewhere, if necessary, let's direct that 400 million and everything will be enough to raise wages, raise social standards of life. I think the government is serious and especially the financial and economic bloc is serious about what to work on. Since there are enough disagreements today, there are enough unresolved issues, and most importantly, there is money in the budget this year and it needs to be directed towards the social, economic, development of Ukraine. And, my friends, you don't have to spend money on selling a stick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u72	Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich. After him, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! I think that each of us understands that a loving statesman has only a duty to the State. We have the right to prevent any mistakes in the government. Today we're all working on mistakes. Now, please see, today, the “rape” of the Cabinet of Ministers, which made adjustments to the budget. Mikolo Janovich, which 365 million are spoken for? The president was bought 350-360 million dollars now. What Is Missing? [[Applause]] . $70 million was paid for the plane. Now, for the 365th election, the SOCIETY is now 55, and they say the village needs 150 million, but that's not enough for the mechanics, and I'm saying this once and for all, if they go into the harvest, although there's nothing to pick this year, because the bioclimactic conditions this year are extremely difficult for the last 15-20 years. The minimum need for a nation's grain is 40-42 million. The biological crop today is projected to be between 20 million and 22 million, where do we get the bread? Who will feed 46 million people? Azarov, Yanukovic or Yushchenko? Undoubtedly, Azarov, Yanukovic. And Yushchenko will be walking and flying on that plane they bought him today. [[Applause]] My dear friends, I think! I'm speaking out of the Communist faction, and here in this room most of us share our position, because it's impossible to rule the state for nothing, as is administered by Yushchenko today. So I think, dear friends, today we need to look at at least 15 to 17 billion dollars to collect the grain left over from the 2006 crop, at least 2 million per crop in 2008. Because this year’s seed will not be planted, it will be squeezed, it has no absolute weight, it has no energy of growth. And a little literate expert understands perfectly that you're going to sow the trash, you're going to collect the garbage. So I think, dear friends, we need to look for 20 billion dollars today to buy bread abroad and feed 46 million people. The money is not needed in the village, the village will feed itself. There are 10 million or 8 people left in the city, 30-32 million people, who will feed them? So I think my dear friends, Tuckenko fed, and if we have to run the country, I'll feed. But not like Yashchenko and not like you. I believe, dear friends, that today we are not free of the leadership of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u74	Stoyan, followed by Alexandrovska
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u75	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I have had to deal with social issues for many years both as Head of the Federation of Trades and as Head of the Subcommittee. And I want to say, what the government did this year to raise social standards, it hasn't done a single government in 15 years. I mean both higher pensions and higher minimum wage, and the main thing is the introduction of a single tariff grid. And these positions of government can be understood. But I can't understand the position today of both the government and the committee that came out and said: the main objective of the budget changes is to allocate 360 million to the next election. Who wants them, I don't understand?Oh, my God! Who needs them?Oh, my God! And so, what is the situation of those who are hurting for the village today? You're about to come up in August and you're going to say to them, “We have come for 360 million to take care of you so that you can have a better life, so that the village will work better so that there are roads.” So if you have such a itch, take some time, we'll give this 360 million to the village, and it'll make a real contribution, and people will thank us. And in February, or in March, we'll put it in the 2008 budget and we'll go to the early elections -- it'll be fair and decent. Now I have a question. Now we've heard about 13 billion from the rostrum, 400 million from the rostrum, and we've heard about 120 million dollars a day that's going to go, you know, people measure in their positions. So where are they? They're probably in the same folder where your applications for the election are due. Come on, get that daddy out of here with those applications, put him on the table and we'll talk. I'm definitely against putting money in the wind. Today's the day. I just came from Herson for it. Party of the Regions. You'd see what's going on there. And when people say we're here, they say, “ Are you out of your mind? Save the village, save the people!" So let's give those millions and others that are in reserve, Mikola Janovich, we give people, and this is going to be a major concern for the social protection of the people, not about the loved ones, about the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u76	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the price of the issue that we are discussing with you today is shown at the end of this comparative table, where additional budget costs are shown, which we are invited to legitimize today's vote by the Government. One billion 191 million. For what purposes is it proposed that these funds be channelled? The Public Service Administration, including the President and President's Secretariat, is now budgeted at 722 million, and we are proposing an additional 55.5. At the meeting of the budget committee, I asked the Government to explain these figures, why is there such a need today? We were also told today in the Hall that there are debts, i.e. in the implementation of the planned costs that we have budgeted with you, as I understand from the Committee's discussion, these debts not only this year but in the course of some time, and so today the Government has honestly decided to pay these debts so as not to put our President in an awkward position. Once again, I say 700 million and 55 million. Only 55 million dollars is the price of being re-gildized about government money, we have, you see, in the hall, there is no money for investments, we are told that there is no money for the payment of pensions to children of war, we are being shouted that there is actually no money to solve the problem of paying wages to public enterprises that are depreciated, and that there are billions of bracelets for this money, and that there is no money to drive, that someone is going to drive, someone is going to drive, someone is going to cook well during working hours and for people's money, and there is money for that. We Communists are categorically opposed to such a dual morality, 365 million in elections. At first it was said here in this room that 312, Centrumbirka said: “Today’s appetites are growing, 365”. Someone here has deputies, and you and I need to understand what we're voting for, there's an explanation of that figure, and we know exactly what this money is going to do. It was just here that a colleague said that there was supposed to be an increase due to the fact that the term of the elected company would be increased. Respectable, 60 days both in law and in the Constitution, so we haven't changed them, because the oranges don't really want to make elections in such a way that they go quietly, so that they can control the electoral process, and it takes at least 90 days for those elections, and they don't want to do that, and I understand them, that it's easier to catch fish in cloudy water. But you and I need to understand that if money is asked of us, we need to understand what needs. I request a further statement on the use of money by the President's Secretariat and the President, 55 million for which, who, when spending too much and please, a reference from the Centrer to the electoral company, specifically what. Voting only after the decree of the President, which will be issued after the term of office of 150 deputies. This is what the Prime Minister, the President and the President of the Supreme Council agreed. Only after the order can we.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And, of course, it's easy to talk about money, especially when you don't read the papers very carefully and you don't really know exactly how the income and expenditure part of the budget is formed. So let's apologize to those who used the numbers freely and so on, because not all of them worked hard on the project. But before we put the question to the vote, we need to take a break, asking for two factions, two factions asking for it -- socialists and communists. I'm calling a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u79	Until 11:45.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u80	I'm asking you to take your seats. Who will act? Please come to the rostrum. From the factions who took the word for a break, they took the time for a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u81	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. Simonenko, the Communist faction. I should like to inform you that proposals have been made and that a suspension has been taken for consultations. First. In discussing the draft 2007 budget change introduced by the Government, we considered it necessary to consider - what was the legal basis for including today and considering the financing of elections. The President's decree is not, there's only a political agreement. As you can understand, this is a fund-raiser, it's a diversion for some time without a legal basis. Therefore, when we considered the issue as a whole, we naturally consulted, and all the changes proposed today for 2007 were justified. In particular, it is permissible to see whether additional funding for the President's Secretariat is warranted. I believe that the reason for the 55 million question on the street is not going to work. Today, they must be used in the countryside to ensure that rural issues are addressed and that food security is addressed. I believe that the issue of providing support to all those, in particular, and to the farmers who took credit, has been very serious today, and that these credit commitments have not been repaid since last year. They also need to be resolved so as not to receive a sharp explosion of agricultural prices in autumn, and especially if they are still imported from abroad. Therefore, dear colleagues, we propose today, I am speaking from this point of view and from the faction, Alexander Alexandrovich, we propose to consider the changes to the budget only on first reading, to separate our relations with the first article of the budget changes, because without the legal basis for adopting these changes, we do not have the right to consider today. There will be a legal basis, we will consider. Parliament is working, and there is a possibility to bring these issues up in a week if we clearly define them with a legal basis. Therefore, by informing you today of the reasons that have led us to take a break, I say that there are all the serious reasons to consider carefully the changes the Government is proposing in support of the agro-industrial complex today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u82	I'm asking you to focus. I would like to propose that there should be no doubt about the rightfulness of the use of budgetary resources, including the organization of elections, if any, if so required, to write in the final positions such a rule: this law takes effect from the date of its publication, in addition to the provisions relating to the financing of the holding of extraordinary elections of Ukrainian national deputies, which take effect at the same time as the start of the electoral process to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the decision taken under article 82, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine under the conditions of legal confirmation of the invalidity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask with this amendment to vote in the first reading on the draft now as a basis. [[12:09:03]] For 383 On the basis of an accepted project. Please take a word for it. Cowchenko. Would you like to sign up? Please. I'll take this one. Write one from the faction first. A lot's been written down. Have I ever had this before? Yeah, there you go. I'm asking for your attention! Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear colleagues are national MPs, distinguished voters who listen, I think, to us! It seems to me that if you look at the situation calmly, everything is perfectly clear. Here are reprimanded and put ahead of the horses of the wagon: that “you should put down your mandates, and then we will vote”. Who will vote if we have mandates? Do you vote? We know how you vote, and we know you will! Therefore, let us not fool anyone, yet it is perfectly clear! The head of the Committee on Budget Affairs was yours, who made it very clear that the issue was completely settled. Because if you don't vote for this right now, you're deliberately stalling, you're failing all of the arrangements. Well, that's understandable! It's all on the surface. Because of this, Alexandre Alexandrovich, put to the vote the full extent of the adoption of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u84	I'm asking you to calm down! Here's the thing. I'm asking you to pay attention! According to the Rules, if there is any comment to the MPs, I have the right to put the second reading to a vote when there is no such remark. That's one thing. And the others. Note that both opposition and coalition and discussion during the break and all that has so far proved that there is no mutual trust. This is bad, but it is obviously an objective situation for today. And it needs to be overcome through negotiations, and not just negotiations, agreements, guarantees, and so on and so forth. All of this has to be meant. So if there is no objection, I can put it in a second reading. Please, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Bondarczuk, the faction of Soccer. We will vote in favour of this document in the first reading, and then we will have to send it to the committees, work on it, and so forth. Because there is no legal basis for the election yet, and we should not put the wagon in front of the horse. Therefore, we vote only when the necessary changes, additions to the laws of the electorate, to the Constitution, and so forth are adopted. And now we have something to do. So let us go back to the adoption of this law in the second reading, after consideration by the committees, as it should be in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u86	I'm asking you to calm down again. Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u88	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I inform you that the Communist faction did not vote on first reading for just one simple reason, that we have proposed paragraph one, which has no legal basis for amending the electoral budget, to delete and consider it as a separate draft. All the other proposals of the Government, provided we have comments, we are prepared to consider, express our support for these areas and allow the Government to finance them. I would like to draw the attention of those who are now opposed to this position that there is an initiative by the legislative body to change the budget of the Cabinet of Ministers. We have the right to consider it. There is no legislative initiative to hold elections, and we have no right to consider the financing of elections without that decision. Therefore, the Communist faction will change to second reading and we will work fruitfully on these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u89	Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u90	Dear Alexander Alexander! Garbage, Party of Regions. I have an offer like this, maybe to think about exchanging points of view, because if our opponents over the past year are very often accused of not doing anything, then put it in a packet. So they're in charge, they're on the table, they're in the secretariat, and they're in one package to vote. Then there will be mutual responsibility and mutual guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u91	Hiyanov. Is it nutritious? Please, Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u92	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! The fourth joint statement states that for the legislative provision of fair, transparent, democratic and non-compromising elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the initiation of two days, the 29th and 30th May plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at which the Working Group accepts documents, including amendments to the Budget Act. Among the signatures, including the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Frost. The 29th and 30th have passed, the President has planned the last decree, today is May 31st. And you, dear colleagues, are proposing to extend the budget procedure for a few more weeks. Therefore, “Our Ukraine”, the opposition as a whole, insists that the changes to the Budget Act, which are not only about financing changes but also about social benefits, have been voted on in the first reading and in general with a view to unlocking the political crisis and making us move.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u93	Jaroslav Anatoliyovich, you say correctly, only one is special, the President is responsible for himself and decides for himself, and I signed up for initiating the consideration of these issues. They're initiated, and I've done everything I can to get them to look at it. So let me just say again, I could give you a little bit of a reprimand if, for example, you were to take the initiative in supporting Parliament's work, and after 12 nights you didn't leave everything, maybe we'd look at it. I'm not going to say that, because I haven't been ready for the budget yet, at all. Today we've looked at the first reading, it's, it's accepted. Victor, please, you talk so much about morality, please, this isn't a meeting of a party where you were the leader. Please. Please. We accepted the document in the first reading. In accordance with the Rules, I do not have the right to place a second one until certain positions have been identified. Let's prepare, the remarks were there and on the first point, and secondly, they'll be ready for tomorrow. The committee, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, make suggestions, and please send them to all those who have spoken here and on your side, and we will be able to accept them tomorrow. I don't think there's a problem here. Now we're going to take a quick look at this and then we're going to take a break. I'm asking you, and then we're leaving. [[B in m in s a l in]] You scream so loud that you don't hear what you want, people are good. Two factions of "Our Ukraine" and BUT require a 30-minute recess, please. Break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u94	A draft regulation on amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association "The State Saving Bank of Ukraine" and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine "Ukreximbank" is under consideration. Registration number 3415. I ask you to include it in the order of the day, please vote for inclusion in the order of the day. [[12:48:27]] For 215 If you want to go back to voting, vote. [[12:48:49]] For 244 I'll bet the vote on the inclusion in the agenda, please. [[12:49:11]] For 248 Sergey Petrovich Kluev, rapporteur, please, member of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u95	Deputies! Dear Alexanderovich! In view of the fact that a member of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Sugonjako Nikolay Vasiljevic, had received a statement on the composition of his mandate in connection with the transition to permanent office of a commercial bank, the Committee had considered the matter in favour of his application and had proposed a draft order to replace Sugonjako Nikolay Vasilevich with Koseljenko Oleg Fedorović in the Savings Supervisory Board. Koseljenko Oleg Fedorović, born in 1940, a candidate for economic sciences, has many works on the economic theme published and is fully in line with the requirements of the Banking and Banking Act. The Committee considered and adopted a positive decision. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u96	What questions to Sergei Petrovich? None. May I put it to a vote? No, it's, I understand, regulation 3415-1 about the representative, about Oleg Fedorovich Koschelenko. I'm betting on the vote on this project. Sergei Viktorovich! [[12:51:20]] For the 250. A decision has been made. Now regarding Ignatenko Paul Mikolaiovich, 3415. May I put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u97	The Ignatenko Committee has not considered this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u98	How?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u99	The Committee did not consider Ignatenko's candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u100	I'm sorry. I got it. Decision taken. Thank you. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u102	Who took the break, ready to take the floor? Well, let's wait a little bit. 3589 registration number. Draft decree amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the formation of MP factions and coalitions). I'm asking the question of putting this in order of the day. Please be supportive. [[12:52:33]] For the 220. Thank you. Who's ready to report? Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't look at the monitor. I'm sorry. I ask you to vote. Who's in charge of getting involved? Take down the vote. Please, Simonenko's asking the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u103	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, during the work of the Working Group and the Conciliation Council, which we conducted yesterday in factions, discussing the agenda and each of the draft laws, we agreed that the issues relating to the Rules to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies relate primarily to the imperative mandate. And, of course, the adoption of a law that would enable, in fact, the disclosure of a constitutional rule, which, unfortunately, is not yet a matter of exclusion or deprivation of the right to be a people's representative on the decision of the party's governing bodies. Therefore, the faction did not vote in favour of inclusion, for the draft proposed today does not address the President's motives for adopting a decree prohibiting the activities of the Supreme Council. I believe that a decision should be taken to amend the Constitution on a peremptory mandate, and then all other laws would naturally be in line with the question which.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, Peter Mikolaiovich, I'm not commenting on your statement here, it's just that this issue has already been addressed in principle by changes to the Rules, we voted it, if I'm not mistaken, about April 3-4, but here are some clarifications, details that don't speak of an imperative mandate, here you can agree that this is the norm of the Constitution, of course. But it's about order of formation and factions and coalitions, and it wouldn't be a record at all. So I'd like you to take a look, and they're introducing Richter and Boki this bill, and I'm asking you to determine how to put it in order of day. And I ask who, in order to put it in order, not to include it, but to vote on the inclusion procedure, I put it to a vote. [[12:55:31]] For 319 I'm putting to the vote now the question of including in the order of the day of this ruling, please, the inclusion in the order of the day. About getting into the day. [[12:55:56]] For 298 Question solved is 299. Someone will be speaking from you, won't they? It won't. That's why I'd like to have a word with you. Ivan Sidorovich, are you reporting? Please, Boki Ivan Sidorovich. No, a report from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u105	In fact, this decree repeats what we talked about yesterday when we consider the changes to the People's Deputy Status Act, and it's about making the following changes to the Supreme Council Rules: Part Two of Article 59, in a new edition: “The People’s Deputy is only part of the MP’s factions of political parties or the electoral bloc of political parties, by which he has been elected as a national deputy.” Well, in the second sentence of the first sentence of article 10, replace “the formation of MP factions” with “the formation of MP factions of the political party, the electoral bloc of political parties and the entry of national MPs into the parliamentary factions of the political party, the electoral bloc of political parties whose election list or which they were elected by the national MPs. And part two of article 61 reads: “The coalition is formed exclusively by MP factions formed in the order established by this Rules, within one month of the opening of the first meeting of the newly elected Supreme Council or within one month of the termination of the previous coalition. It is not possible to include in its composition national deputies who are not members of the MP factions who formed this coalition, and also those national deputies who have been excluded from the MP factions by decision.” Well, the new paragraph is in article 66, after paragraph one, is: “A permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of the relevant vocation”. In fact, these are all the changes proposed in the Rules that actually reflect today’s state of affairs. And to decide whether or not to accept them is a parliamentary hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u106	Ivan Sidorovich. Is there a question for John Sidorovich? John Sidorovich, then answer that question. The last page reads: “The coalition’s activities stop in the event that the powers of the Supreme Council are terminated in the appropriate calling”. Next, “Destructive termination of the powers of the Supreme Council”. A permanent termination of authority is still a termination of authority, isn't it? So the first point is enough to make it completely clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u107	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u108	Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u109	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u110	So to throw out this amendment, it doesn't add anything to the meaning. Yeah, that's how it's done. What will be the other questions? None. Have a seat, please. Ah, there's Lachak, wait. Oh, sit down, sit down, please. Have a seat. Please sign up to discuss who wants to speak. Take the word. Garbage. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u111	Dear Alexander Alexander! I would like to draw your attention as Head of the Supreme Council for article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine for paragraph two and carefully for all deputies to read it. What do I mean? That, today, the crisis caused by opposition, has led to a crisis in the power of the presidential branch, the Supreme Council, and others. So I would like to propose a proposal and before we vote on all these laws on the timely cessation of the Supreme Council, to invite the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council, where he should make his constitutional commitments to the Supreme Council and explain today's state of affairs, the political state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u112	Please, I would just like to ask, article 196 refers to the presidency. We sent a letter to the President regarding his annual letter. He has to do it. But in this case, we're discussing the order in which factions are formed in the Supreme Council. And since the President is not a national MP, that obviously does not apply to him. Yeah? And your point is, in principle, correct, only it can be repeated by calling the President again. Please, Lady Oleg is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u113	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. We support this draft decision. He will allow the sad cases of the transition of deputies from one faction to another, which have led to a prolonged parliamentary and, as a result, political crisis in the country. But I would like, Alexander Alexanderovich, to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Budget for the Year, which includes a certain amount for the financing of the elections. We have not finished this question, which is not accepted as a whole, and you are hampered by several speeches by Communists. I want to remind you of a similar meeting of the Supreme Council on March 15th, when you adopted the amendments to the Budget Act, when, at your suggestion, these changes were accepted both as basic and in the first reading, and in general, despite the fact that half of the room was against. Then the position of half the hall did not prevent you from accepting these changes in general. Today three, there's someone there with two arms, there's a show, and that's what's bothering you. Alexander Alexanderovich! You don't have to rule like a gypsy sun. There are arrangements for what we accept, you want the elections to be held, let's accept what you've made clear about when the election funding rule should be in place. And lastly, I want to remind you of yesterday's proposal that you didn't pay attention to, so I have to remind you. I propose to cancel yesterday's Supreme Council Order on the appointment of the Supreme Council Chiefs of Court to the Supreme Council Order on 81 articles of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u114	Thank you. Oleg Valeriyovich, in order not to put away the answer, I want to say that not only do I have a problem with speeches by Communists, but even your speech doesn't bother me, it's okay. Please. Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u115	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Once again, I would like to remind members of the opposition and the coalition that, yes, someone is taking part in the negotiation process with the deputies, the Prime Minister, the Chief of the Supreme Council, the President, they are negotiating something. But this does not mean that it will be the way they agreed and that it is a dot and nothing else. They agreed that one or the other would be brought to the Supreme Council Hall. The Supreme Council will consider it and the decision will be taken accordingly. Because our leaders, they're pretty good people, and they can't promise each other a decision that the Supreme Council can make. So I would ask some people not to confuse the agreement and the decision of the Supreme Council that it was automatic, so why are we actually going here? And we're going to make arrangements if they fit in with the Supreme Council. Next. I see here, in the changes that are in line with the Rules, a knucklehead who wants to go to the National MP, when he fails through an imperative mandate, the rule is in line here with the relevant Rules. And by that time, step left, step right, the deputy has to walk on the string. I would like to ask in our parliamentary delegation, which was going to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, what assessment did the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe give to such new innovations that we are making in our Rules, or what we are trying to make, to the appropriate, in terms of an imperative mandate. Does it support, does it not support, does Europe condemn, or does it consider that this is not a step towards democracy, but to authoritarianism? I'd like to hear it. I know that those who drive are familiar with these documents, too, they can say it, and no matter who or who the factions were, and who manifests ideological and personal preferences today. And I know that the Head of the Supreme Council was in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and he could also say what their assessment is, what is the assessment of the Venice Commission. And so, if we and our party program have been written down to build Europe in Ukraine, it's definitely for me, too. If this is Europe, I will vote. If Europe doesn't support this, and I want to go to Europe, I don't know how they want to vote against the opposition, whether they want it or not, now I think you'll figure it out, if you want to go to Europe, of course it won't suit you. And if you go somewhere else, you vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u116	Yes, let us sum up our discussion. Everyone goes wherever they want, it's clear. But the point is, of course, the imperative mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is called absurd. But for some parliaments, it's applied, so it's decided by the MPs. In this case, it's not about an imperative mandate, it's about clarifications in the Rules that reflect the norms of the Constitution. In the corresponding articles, if I am not mistaken, article 83 of the Constitution sets out the order that provides for the formation of a coalition based on factions and formation of factions based on those MPs who, on the list of parties or political parties, have become elected national deputies. It is here that these standards are repeated. So I don't think there can be any objection here to vote on this decision. First, on the ground, please. [[13:08:16]] For-161 Not enough votes, sorry. But I think there is no need for tragedy here, no support for this proposal, because the word for word is in the Rules, it's in the existing Rules, and those who say there is no, they missed an obvious Parliament meeting on about April 6th where all of this has been changed and voted already. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich on the rostrum, please, from the initiators of the break, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u117	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. The faction “Our Ukraine” and the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko took a break to consult and offer their proposals to the entire Chamber of Deputies. We are now ready to work as long as it takes, but we are convinced that decisions must be adopted that are the subject of a joint statement by the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council. Now we've gone in a way that excludes the implementation of agreements that are set out in a joint statement. The governing coalition has just adopted the budget, but only in the first reading. This means that the issue of financing out-of-order elections is put in a long box, which means the first and most important moment of review of the rules achieved after signing the joint statement. Just now, deputies from the ruling coalition have not supported, even the basic ones, which essentially do not resolve the changes to the Rules, but which, at least, allow at least a minimum order in Parliament for the next call, and this is also in contravention of the agreements set out in the joint statement. Therefore, we are concerned about attempts to unilaterally revise a joint statement signed by the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council. We continue to believe that this is not the final exit of the signatories from the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council from joint agreements. We therefore propose, at the time left before the conclusion of the plenary meeting, to adopt more than anything else: amendments to the Elections Act with a view to unblocking the upcoming elections, to return to the vote on the amendments to the "On the Status of the People's Deputy" Act for the purpose of introducing an imperative mandate, to return after lunch to the vote on the amendments to the "On Budget" Act with a view to securing funding for the non-renewable electoral company, and also after lunch to proceed to the consideration of the Central Electoral Commission Regulation also with a view to unblocking the election firm and ensuring the viability of the Central Electoral Commission in its entirety. In this regard, we invite all the heads of factions, with the participation of the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the members of the working group on a 14-hour break, to meet to discuss further agenda items. If we don't agree to that, we're going to be inclined to view this as a unilateral solution to the agreement that is set out in the joint statement. They are convinced that such a unilateral solution will serve only to deepen the political crisis from which Ukraine joined forces by the leaders of the coalition and opposition, and the President of Ukraine has already begun to emerge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, calm down. Please. I ask you to be careful, be careful. Two factions took a break and expressed their opinions on the subject of the consultation in accordance with the Rules. The same was true before, and no one discussed it. I beg you, let's respect each other first. Secondly, we are now in the day-to-day with regard to the draft law amending the Electoral Act. This is the project. I mean, the envelope for this project, and it's not there. Why not? For many weeks, the working group, which included representatives of the coalition and representatives of the opposition and representatives of the government and the President's Secretariat, has been working on this document and it turns out that there are still many, well, not many, but a few fundamental differences. They need to be removed before they are brought into the session room. And here we have to agree with the words of Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich about what we need to find in this sense a compromise that would bring everyone together, because it is about adapting, of course, the Elections Act to the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term for the term of election, and when we impose the existing election law on a scale of two months, it is impossible to deal with them, and the Central Election Commission has stated so forth. So I think his suggestions on the consultation are absolutely correct. Just from two to four, I'm afraid, maybe that's not enough time, so let's do about 13 45 to 16 hours of this consultation, and at 16 we'll meet here at the meeting. No objections? Then I declare the morning session closed, and at 1:45 a.m. on the third floor there will be consultations of faction leaders. Please.
