ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Deputies, please prepare for registration, come into the hall, insert the cards. There's a roll call, please. [[10:02:57]] Ready to work 254 national deputies. The morning session is open. Dear National Deputies, you know, by May 9, 28 years of age, the National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, a member of the Party of the Antemuk Anatoly Dmitrovic Region. There was the life of a very young man who was only on the takeoff, and the clear thing was that, as yesterday while saying good-bye to him, and in the moods of the faction, and among that group of great deputies who went to the funeral to the Winnies, there was also a feeling of regret, and sadness, and compassion, and a kind of misunderstanding: a man had only just begun to live, and life was overthrown by forces which were apparently higher than the will of men themselves. I ask you to honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. I'd like to make a statement of the MP's request. Vassila GREECEA to the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General on possible allegations of abuse and corruption within the authorities of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Dmitry KRUCHKOVA to Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Radchenk of Ukraine regarding the improper examination by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the parliamentary request for the unlawful use of Andriy Feidewicz, a member of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the alleged fraud of confidence and pressure to investigate. And the MP's request to the Home Secretary from the Chief of State Service of Motrenko and the Minister of Internal Affairs of Tsushka, and the Chief of Service of Motrenko for the unsatisfactory activities of the Department of Economic Crime in the field of high technology. This complaint, a more faithful request, was prepared by the Ukrainian national deputy Sergey Chukmasov. I'm announcing this to send these questions to the appropriate addressees. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Litvinov Vladimir Grigorovitch. Let's welcome him with this, with this date. We wish him health and good luck. And good luck. [[Applause]] We have time for that. By our determination for speeches, information, suggestions, statements. I'm announcing a faction entry from the factions first. Individual MPs, please. Many willing. I'm asking, well, yeah, according to the pattern of how they worked last sessional day. From the Party of Regions who? Korsakov? Ah, Bertash. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u2	A statement by the MP from the Party of the Regions. Dear compatriots! Today, young Ukrainian democracy is once again forced to accept a challenge that it does not deserve. Once again, our nation is forced to dive into a debilitating electoral campaign that is illegal. This challenge was provoked by the unrestrained desire of the opposition to return to the authorities as soon as possible, ignoring the rules of law and the rules of fair political struggle. The post-war and catalyst for the political crisis in Ukraine was aware of the overwhelming fact that the successful work of the parliamentary coalition and the Cabinet of Ministers of Viktor Yanukovic would not give her a chance to win a large number of votes in the next parliamentary elections. This led to a scenario of early elections that violated the Constitution, Ukraine’s laws, common sense, and the logic of a civilized political struggle. To implement the destructive scenario, every effort has been made until the opposition has come out of the Supreme Council Hall and the demonstrative rejection of the mandates of the people. A political crisis and a reality that we did not choose, but with which we have to count for civil peace and peace. The party of regions has repeatedly extended its hand for dialogue with our political opponents, but our hand was constantly hanging in the air. We did our best, but we were unable to make our political opponents smarter and more responsible. Opponents didn't need peace and dialogue, they were set up for ultimatum and war. The opposition thinks otherwise; it needs war to the last; it hears no other thoughts or points of view than it does its own. Understanding the future prospects and having a strategic vision of the state’s development, we deliberately went to meet the opponents and agreed that the elections would take place. There's no legal basis for that, and that's a great understanding between us and the President and the opposition. They hurry and they get nervous, we're calm and we're confident. They know they're losing, so they're operating outside the law. We are confident of victory because we are obeying the law. They're for disorder and lawlessness, they need it now and now. We're simple, transparent, and the same for all of us. We need a big country, not big shocks. They're pushing for a quick, incomprehensible process just to have the opportunity to re-establish public hysterics about forging elections, in order to question the results of elections if the opposition loses, because there's no chance of winning legally now in the opposition. We're thinking about the country and the people, and we're trying to ensure that our citizens' civilised will is made clear. Prepare for this all the necessary legal and regulatory frameworks, bring the country back to the right. All the provocative statements of opposition about blocking the negotiating process by coalition is another fake. The manipulation, the hysteria, the indiscretion and the impatience, the endless flow of ultimatums and demands, the thirst for quick but inescapable decisions by so-called opponents, are the main reasons why negotiations are ongoing. We don't see any real action from our opponents. Dear people of Ukraine, you don't have to explain to others that the difference between us and the opponents is enormous. The motivation for political action varies. The methods of fighting politically are counterproductive. Yet, for the sake of peace, tranquillity and prosperity of our people, we will seek political compromises in the negotiations. The Party of the Regions is a guarantee and a guarantee of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u3	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u4	That common sense, pragmatism, and efficiency will prevail. The interests of all without exception of citizens will be provided at the legislative level. This is our consistent position, our principles that we've always stood on and that we're going to stand up for in political debates at any level. One country is one nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given by Jaroslav Menduz of the Socialist Party, from the faction of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u6	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. The President, who was authorized by the Constitution to be a guarantor of the rule of law in the country, issued another decree on the resignation of another judge of the Constitutional Court, Judge Yvashchenka. You know, we should be grateful to Victor Andryovich for this order. By this decree he drowned all the peaceful initiatives proposed by Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic in the search for political compromise. The President has shown that he is a fundamental opponent to any arrangement. Yushchenko testified that no agreement could be made with a man who was the chief lawbreaker in the country. Viktor Andryovich is interested in the absolute usurpation of power, even though it is not able to cope with the powers he has today. At first, the Supreme Council was in the way of the President. Remember, it was Parliament that gave publicity to all Yushchenka's affairs and his business partner, Yvchenk, during the artificial gas crisis. The President is now severely hampered by the district courts, the Constitutional Court is obstructing him. Victor Andryovich does not like the fact that the courts can pass decisions that correspond to the letter of the law, not the order of the Presidential Secretariat. I know that a group of national deputies have come up with a proposal to resign five more judges from the Constitutional Court. Yes, the actions of these judges, which, prior to the opening of the case on the constitutionality of the President's decree, have declared their position, run counter to the Constitutional Court Act. That's true. Yes, the Supreme Council has every authority and authority to send these five judges away at any time. But let's not be like Yashchenkov. Let us not be like a man who has already become a major violator of the rule of law in a state that destroys the country and the state apparatus. I believe that by repeating his actions, we are following in the footsteps of a far-sighted and intellectually limited policy. The Socialists once again claim that there should be no negotiations with Mr. Yushchenko until he stops the illegal pressure against the judges of the Constitutional Court and the judges of the district courts. Of course, the judges of the Constitutional Court — Stannik, wheat, and Yvashchenko — continue to carry out their duties in full and legitimate terms. This is absolutely justified from a legal point of view, because the so-called Orders of Yushchenko on the resignation of judges are not yet published and cannot be regarded as valid legal acts. Under the law, the President has no authority to resign the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Therefore, the Secretary of the President's statement about the resignation of judges is nothing more than another attempt to pressure the Constitutional Court. And the purpose of this pressure is also obvious to everyone – Yushchenko hopes to break the court's work because he is afraid to pass a decision on the constitutionality of his decrees. We also consider it illegal to resign the judges of the courts of general jurisdiction. I think the Supreme Council should show its political and public position and take a set of measures that could protect the judiciary in Ukraine from interference by other institutions of power. I propose that the parliamentary hearings in Ukraine, with the participation of leading lawyers and representatives of all branches of the judiciary, should be initiated on an urgent basis next week. I cannot help but mention another loud statement made yesterday by Mr. Yushchenko. He said that if all the authorities prevented the President from doing what he wanted, he would dissolve everyone and all the decisions in the country would be taken by the National Security Council. It is fitting to note that Yushchenko also changed its composition without any reason and contrary to the law in force. Clearly, this statement is no more than the paper on which the secretariat prints illegal decrees. It is important that now the whole of Europe and the whole world can evaluate Yashchenk's claims to be a Democrat and a European. The bad dancer is hampered by all the authorities — Kabmin, the composition of the NPBO, the Supreme Council, the Constitutional Court, and the district courts. Yushchenko believes that democracy is when the authorities work contrary to the law and according to his will. I think it's time for Victor Andriyovich to simplify his work and make all the decisions in the state on the family council, along with the best men. According to all of this, an appropriate decree is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u7	The word is Marmazov Eugen Vasilovich instead of Ponomarenko, followed by Plaštinsky instead of Evtukhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! We were all deeply excited that on the Day of Victory, millions of our compatriots went out to the streets and to the square and laid flowers, wreaths to the monuments and omens to the graves of the soldiers who had died, and observed them. Yet, there is still a feeling of bitterness and boredom. Not to be indignant that President Yushchenko, even clearly playing with veterans, used this holy day to put together a number of Soviet Army soldiers who liberated our homeland from the invaders and UN-OPA gang leaders, the SS-Gallicina Division. Calling Ukraine's independent fighter Fascist Assistant Shuhević next to the names of the distinguished Soviet leader Nikolai Fedorovic Vatutina, by the way, murdered by the Banders, he has insulted the millions of defenders of our Family. All the peoples of the Soviet Union have won the greatest victory. But how did we celebrate the anniversary of Victory? What about Moscow and Minsk? I watched on TV as the military parades were held, as were the frontists, guerrillas and undergrounds, and we were deeply offended by our veterans. How do you know that only one Inter TV channel included a minute of silence in its 9 May programme in memory of those who had fallen in the fight against fascism? Why on the memorable days of the anniversary of victory, the emphasis in Ukrainian television and radio broadcasts was not on the immortal feats of our fathers and grandfathers but on mistakes, miscalculations and reprisals, the praise of the feats of traitors and the display of American fighters. Why the textbooks on which our young people are raised are silent or the heroic pages of national history are twisted, the traitors and reborns are exalted, the ones who shot Ukrainian liberators in the back. Who in the Government is responsible for these areas? Who determines and pursues policies on such vital issues? There's no answer. We are justly outraged at what is being done around the monuments and burials of Soviet soldiers in Estonia and Poland. But why can't we hear the voice of the Ukrainian authorities? Moreover, the eloquent Kinderister, to whom everything is clear and who, for any reason, can make, mildly speaking, inappropriate statements, such as the revision of a large treaty with Russia in fact, took the protection of the Estonian authorities and called for respect for their positions. And this, as it became known, was the case of two soldiers who were playing dust in Tallinn from Ukraine. All of this cannot help but be indignant. In this regard, I cannot help but draw attention to the fact that neither Estonians nor Poles own the palm of the primacy, as they say, of the liberation from the monuments of the Communist dictatorship. Ukrainian President Yushchenko had issued a disgraceful decree to eliminate the monuments and symbols of the Soviet era. This means, in particular, that the monuments of the cities of Kiev, Odessa, Sevastopol, Kerchi, other monuments and obelisks should be brought down, because they contain a picture of the medals of the Golden Star of the Hero, the memorial stars, the sickle and the hammer, and other Soviet symbols that so irritate the former KPCS member of Yushchenko. This is not yet being done, but if these national Democrats come to power, what is being done in Poland and Estonia will be flowers for us. We have an obligation to stop this abyss, this war with the dead, the pretending of our glorious history, the memory of those who lived their lives to the honor, freedom and independence of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u9	Platinum, please. He is also given the word, and he himself has the word, and yet the word of Eutuchus has passed on to him. But I'm asking you to settle down in four or five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u10	Thank you. Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! Today, May 11 and two days ago, the entire nation of Ukraine celebrated Victory Day. Not the 9th of May, as we see on the billboards, began to be called, but the Day of Great Victory. And what we saw the other day. At the entrance to the Museum of Military Action where there is a Museum today of Great Homeland War, there were borders for the President's protection, and there were no veterans of war, grey, gray veterans who gave us the opportunity to live, to speak, to work in our country. And it was only the fighting actions of the leaders of the column with which we broke through these pints and started to celebrate the people who risked their lives for our freedom with you. And we didn't ask who the veterans would vote for, young people, children, we didn't care which way these voters were going to vote for, is the people of Ukraine, and he came to the festival. And I would like to ask you, Victor Andriyovich, to deal with those who didn't let you do it first. It's different. As head of the Economic Policy Committee, I cannot help but stress today that four months of work and the government of Viktor Yanukovic and the economic bloc of the Supreme Council have ended, and most of the Supreme Council have kept the economic situation in the state. About 8 percent of GDP growth. Only 1.3, and in April, the inflation rate is zero. More than 12, 12.6 percent of the increase in industrial production, while at the same time reducing the energy efficiency of Ukraine's production by 2.4 percent. These are the steps that the government is taking, the steps that most in Parliament are taking. And today to talk about what is a crisis, today it's just absurd, it's an artificial crisis for those who want to try to get in the way of power. It won't work. The people of Ukraine, and I have personally heard it, both at the rallies, and at the meetings yesterday, and every day, talking to people of Ukraine, understands that only the government of Yanukovich in 2003-2004, and currently works so that it is possible to almost monthly increase wages, pensions, every social pay. Think of it, the people of Ukraine, in just 4 months of this year, the first increase in salaries and pensions was from April 1st to $7.5 billion, and from May 1st, a decision was made by another 5 at the expense of the state budget and 3 at the expense of the increase in income from the Pension Fund. I mean, 15.5 billion. These improvements relate to 17 million real - life Ukrainians in every family in Ukraine, and they will and will. These are the results of the work of the government, of that government, which, in the opinion of the so-called minority, the opposition is considered ineffectively working. As an economist, I want to say that this is a mistake: a government formed professionally and functioning normally. Yesterday, the International Conference “Forum of Economists of the World” was held in Ukraine, where I had the honour of opening it from the State of Ukraine. And when I pointed out this data, when we handed out the materials to the reference office, the ex-Prime Minister of Canada said that, as of today, growth in Ukraine is one of the best in the world. And it can't be prevented by an artificial crisis and something else. Dear Victor Andryovich, you made a lot of mistakes on the round table yesterday. First, you can't reveal your plans with a minority that the communists won't be in Parliament next. These are your plans, and you will observe them, but the people will determine who they will not be and who they will not be. And in part of this faction, if you don't have any doubts, it will be in Parliament. You said yesterday that you could introduce direct presidential rule. Please enter. Come on in. Nobody's afraid of him. If elections are needed, we are in favour of having them held on a constitutional basis, in a legal field. And let no one doubt that we will win as you never dreamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u11	Ivan Boki instead of Filindash, I understand? After him, Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u12	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I think everyone realized yesterday was the day of the mask drop. And these masks were exactly the kind of policies that were at the helm of Ukrainian power, and they're still in that hat today. I think, first of all, it was Victor Yushchenk's day of stripping masks. Yesterday he took his mask off, like -- I'll be in order -- like a political bankruptcy, he dropped his mask off like a coward, he dropped his mask off, eventually, like a man who would enter Ukraine's history as a destroyer. The ruinator here, I think, is pretty clear to everyone, first of all, as the head of the National Bank, he played a leading role in destroying the Ukrainian economy, and I've ruined it, I've already talked about it, with my monetary policy. Now he's becoming a destroyer, a destroyer of state institutions, which means he's the ruiner of the state. What he gave yesterday was a third order on the release of the third judge of the Constitutional Court, here, I don't think anyone needs to explain anything, because the craziest thing is clearly what he wants to do: destroy the Constitutional Court as such. As a coward, he stood up yesterday, answering a question from one of the members of the working group about why he didn't want to go to the presidential election. It is already said that cowardice has been so embellished that everyone has come to realize that a person who does not understand that today is essentially preventing Ukraine from moving in a European way wants to continue this destructive position. And the third. He stood up as a political bankruptcy, and he confessed. He admitted that the election, the election of the Supreme Council he wanted to do only because he was denied trust by the same chosen people to his faction and, of course, to the parallel faction, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I think that's enough to understand how pathetic it was, how pathetic it was, how spectacular it was, and how spectacular it was, in itself, I apologize for that kind of tautology. I think that yesterday you opened up to the people of Ukraine a lot on the real face of our President, unfortunately, the President, because his presidency, I've already talked about it, becomes a historical anecdotal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u13	Thank you. Kirichenko is speaking instead of Mironka. That's what Mironenko asked. And then instead of Litwinov Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u14	Honourable Presidency, fellow MPs, Ukrainian people, distinguished presences! Yesterday, the President dismissed the third judge of the Constitutional Court, Vladimir Ivashchenko. Motivation is supposed to have broken an oath. Immediately thereafter, the Head of the Constitutional Court announced that it was possible to stop the work of the court due to increased external pressure. That's what the President's actions are all about. In this situation, not only does the President destroy the judiciary but he also destabilizes the country as a whole. The President has long since left the legal field and has not even tried to disguise his steps today as being in conformity with the letter of the law, and no extraordinary parliamentary elections will be able to stabilize the situation. May 9th is a holy day for millions. Speaking to the veterans of the Great Homeland War and allegedly having good intentions to consolidate society, Mr. Yushchenko stressed that he would never accept any position that divided the people. And right away, he literally blew up the calm of society, calling among the distinguished Ukrainians Alexander Duzhenko, General Vatutini, the legendary Kožeduba, the name of Roman Shuhević. Not only me, thousands of those present have witnessed the wrath and indignation of the veterans. What's that? An attempt to unite the people or, once again, with an enviable effort to adjust the history of Ukraine? Given that the President has tried to promote the idea of the UPA among those who have witnessed their crimes, who have shed blood over their homeland, fighting all forms of fascism, it is clear that the Head of State is deliberately using any reason to strain domestic tensions. It is simply impossible to explain the attempt to rewrite history right now. No one challenges the atrocities of the Stalin regime, but also the perception of UPA fighters as fighters for democracy; independence cannot be categorically understood. In the 46th year, the Nuremberg Process called upon all SS forces to be criminalized, which in principle made it impossible to rehabilitate the soldiers of these units. Roman Suhevic, the SS's Gaupsteinführer, commander of the Nakhtin Battalion. What else can be commented on? Let me give you an example from the life of a democratic Europe. Recently, the London police anti-terrorist unit began to study the activities of former SS troops in Galicina, England. If our President is so eager to make the ideology of the “light brothers” of Ukraine's national ideology, let him also examine their work in full. This should be guided by international law, not by personal sympathy or political expediency. Following the letter of the law is a sign of true democracy, and the practice of systematic violation of laws is inevitable and completely null and void.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u16	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, respected compatriots! Oleg Kalashnikov, National Unity Coalition, Party of Regions First of all, I would like to congratulate everyone once again on the Great Victory of the Soviet people over Fascism, whose 62nd anniversary we celebrated. And how many today would not like to forget this victory, the historic victory that has ensured the life of Ukraine today, the life of Europe, to which we are equal today some of the so-called opposition politicians are using the methods of fascist propaganda to defile the activities of the Ukrainian Parliament elected by our people and the Government's work led by Viktor Fedorović Janukovic. I want to stress that we have power, we have a position, and it's peace in the country, and the constant development of the Ukrainian state today is our main task. That's why we're going through negotiations, we're even ready to go to elections that don't fit the rule of law of the state today, they don't fit the rules of the Constitution. But regardless of that, as descendants of the winners who broke the spine of German fascism, we are now ready to negotiate. But we're not going to do ultimatums. What I'm saying is that the dirt that is going in our position today does not fit the reality. Today, we, as representatives of the National Unity Coalition, are doing everything we can to ensure that the negotiation process is brought into line with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, because without it, the state will never be really big and democratic. I am sorry that today our opponents, in violation of all the norms of democracy, abuse the Constitution of Ukraine. But no matter what, no matter what they've done, they've almost created opportunities for public opposition, they're looking for a rematch, they're looking for civil war. We're not going to let them do that because it's this very room that the best representatives of the Ukrainian nation have gathered today, and it is with you that we must force everyone to sit down at the negotiating table and to negotiate these negotiations exclusively within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine, the legislation of our country, because this is what the people of Ukraine, for which the National Unity Coalition is living and working today, is the coalition government of our state, led by Victor Fedorovich Janukovic. This is the only way to negotiate, the way of consolidation, because Ukraine has one nation and we have one. And I urge each of you to stand in the position of the Constitution, the law, to rebuild that legal field that was destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u17	Thank you. There's been an exchange. Ah, a replica of Vitalia Šibka. He was fine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! A weak, socialist faction. I have asked for a reply because the media publishes a statement in which MEP Elena Bondarenko accuses the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, of impeding members of the opposition, members of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to participate in the meetings of the Committee. That is to say, Alexander Moroz did not sign a mission to visit this committee. That's why I have a line, I ask that I give you time to tell me how these delegations are formed. You know that we have a quota of 12 people and 12 deputies, and that this quota includes a regular quota of each faction that is represented in Parliament. The decision of the Committee then approves the composition and the order of the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Alexander Moroz is sent by the delegation to the PACE as an escort as a credentials. Therefore, here I want to explain to everyone what is rightful to the Head of the Supreme Council, who is precisely his own.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u19	Let him finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u20	who, by his order, sends a delegation, decides whether to make or not to send a mission to those deputies who have exercised their powers. And I would like to ask my colleagues to be consistent: if they were indeed authorized, if they did not attend the meetings of the Supreme Council, did they not attend the meetings of the Committee, then it would probably be logical for them not to participate in the meetings of the Committee in other international representative organizations as no longer a member of the delegation who had appointed themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u21	Thank you for your clarification. That's exactly how I used that right. Although there is one signal: apparently they are careful to monitor the work of Parliament, they go to the appropriate structures of its work, especially when it applies to them personally. You want to go to Greece, look at the culture of an ancient country, obviously. Let us sum up our conversation about the situation today, taking into account the comments that have already been made here. Well, first of all, Victory Day. On the evening I returned from Equine, where I was with colleagues from the Czech Republic present during the celebration and opening of the memorial sign to the Volin Czechs, for few know, apparently, that the Human Freedom Unit was formed primarily by these people. About 12,000 of our countrymen entered its military unit and then participated in the Great Homeland War. And in 1946, there was a relocation, where some 40,000 Czechs from Ukraine returned to their homelands and from the Czech Republic to the Ukrainians back here. It's one of the few pages in our history with our neighbors when totally warm, healthy, normal relationships came after such huge migrations. This should be taken as an example and, I think, we should know our own history. But that's not the point. In the evening he watched the Day of Victory celebration and compared: what is happening in Moscow, what is happening in us. You know, you can't compare. When tens of thousands of young people sing frontal songs on the Mount of Worship, that means they are raised by patriotism on historical traditions, on facts of their own history. What do we have that story lost? Do we want to rewrite it or what? Where can we see something similar today in Ukraine, and where do those who are shaping today’s ideology of the state look? I don't think we should lose our holiday, our victory, our history. And when it comes to this from the mouth of the deputies, we need to understand that this is a real concern that many people in Ukraine are obviously concerned about. The vast majority of the population are deeply convinced of this. There was a working group yesterday. A working group met with the President. That's how I look at this broadcast, the meeting report. I thought who didn't read the Constitution, didn't know the law, so the President's position might seem logical. But once again, I emphasize, those who have not read or understood the content of the Constitution. But essentially, the whole election process is a dangerous provocation that has nothing to do with the President's rights as defined by the Constitution. The President is embodying the so-called opposition. I've already said there can't be opposition and power that runs all the executive power in Ukraine and in the areas and in the areas. The president identifies her, and he specifically deepens the conflict by using false methods to defend the interests of a single political power. Where, for example, does the Constitution or the law state that its responsibilities relate to the organization of the election campaign? I've read the Constitution carefully, I've written this document, it's not there, or it's an agitation of the content of the campaign. Then find the answer to the question of the content of today’s meeting at the Presidential Administration with the heads of the district administrations. Explain the logic and the need for a society to clean up public courts throughout Ukraine. Explain the reasons for the dismissal of the judges of the Constitutional Court. It's openly cynical, cynical, more than ever, preparation for the use of administrative resources. This is another confirmation that early elections are to be held simultaneously with the Parliament and the President. I don't remember. I don't mention manipulating the electoral decrees, the timing of their conduct, which can't be diverted depending on the date of the decree, the strange in terms not only of constitutional law, but also the normal sense of thinking like “no Parliament” and then the day after which Parliament is gathered, and then the Parliament does not work again. I was talking about these intentions with the head of the Senate of the Czech Republic, and I saw that he didn't understand what it was about, because normal people just couldn't understand it, but where there are democratic traditions. Or about the PNDP that they're going to push against the government and all the other structures of power. Well, read the law on PNZ, and it clearly says what this structure can do, which it can't. All of this, in the end, a crime that is accompanied by irreversible legal responsibility, should not be forgotten by anyone and those involved and those who seem to be covered up by the President's will or otherwise for unlawful, criminal acts will have to be held accountable under the rules of the Criminal Code. As for the Constitutional Court. We are not going to act in an unconstitutional field like the President, the right-wing Jaroslav Petrovich, speaking on this point. Yes, there are draft decrees registered in the Secretariat for the violation of an oath by certain judges of the Constitutional Court. The subject of the legislative initiative had reason to be honest, objective, and objective. But we get out of article 19 of the Constitution, which says we need to act on the basis and within the framework of the Constitution and the laws so as not to violate the right of the Constitutional Court judge to defend his civil rights. Like the President’s decree to release judges, for example, he may issue a decree to suspend even judges, but the dismissal of a judge as a citizen as an employer is accompanied by legislation and this is provided for in the Constitution in article 19. There are many people here today in Ukraine, especially those who have power, who use the rule that the norms of the Constitution are the rules of direct action. You should look closely at the 8th article of the Constitution, when it comes to direct action, and this article is being developed immediately, and it only applies to the protection of human rights. With regard to administrative structures, authorities, and so forth, article 19 states that action should be carried out within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. That is why every right, including the President, even the release of a judge is accompanied by a series of legislative steps to be taken. And the decision of the High Council of Justice and everything else to ensure that at each stage we do not violate the rights of every human being, nor violate the legal field, the constitutional field of Ukraine. Once again, I wanted to remind you that we are not against the early elections. In today's situation, indeed, the pros, but only on a constitutional and only legal basis, because what is imposed today by the President poses a tremendous threat to the state in general. And it can only be ignorance if you don't understand the danger that is being fought once and for all in today's political, socio-political situation in Ukraine. Furthermore, what does it mean to hold elections on nonexistent lists of voters? We've passed the law on a special basis, we've determined the date, we can speed it up. The solution to this question is that we have to create a voter register that will be constantly monitored and ensure that people have an objective approach to the vote, and that their votes are taken into account. We need to correct those electoral laws that have proved ineffective or that can be applied in short-term elections. We should finally vote on the changes to the Constitution, especially in the part of local self-government. Today, no one mentions that there is a law in the Constitutional Court concerning changes to the Constitution regarding local self - government. Why is the President and his Administration so insisting today on the early elections right now? Because they fear the introduction of the Local Self - Government Act, which gives power to councils, advises, eliminates district administrations, changes the functions of district administrations. We should be happy to make a leader in an area that satisfies the interests of the community that lives there. That's not what the President's institution, the President's institution, wants, says that the 1994 balance was broken, in 2004, during the changes to the Constitution. I'm addressing all of you and those who use this argument, as it turns out, for six years there was almost a discussion about this point. On one occasion a referendum was held on this subject. In 2004, a public discussion of the document was held at the beginning of the year, and it was determined. The structure that today supports the President has actively voted in favour of these changes. Take, among other things, the statements of today's President at the time and it turns out that it's like a knee made in secret, not so much voted, like, in a box voted and so on, and that's why it doesn't, it doesn't work, it's not real, it's disrupted the balance of power. What is the balance of power? That's what happens when power is in one hand, that is the balance. If we understand that, we may not know anything about democracy, in the traditions of Europe, in the model of a European organisation of state life, governance. I would like us to be conscious of that, because, according to the general demagogic statements about the violation of the people's choice, of the wrong formation of the coalition, as you know, it's nowhere, not one gram of order, that didn't violate the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. Now society has essentially a completely different goal, which has no relation to democracy, to the protection of human rights, to the development of the State, to the preservation of the integrity of the State. I have to talk about this more time, summarizing our brief discussion, because that is the essence of today's political process that we see in the country. Thank you. And in the context of this situation, obviously, I would like to propose to support the initiative of the People's Deputy Melniczuk on the Supreme Council's Order to refer the Supreme Council to the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. René van den Linden, Presidents of the Heads of Government, Parliaments of the European States. Because this document is short, I'll read it, but before we do that, let's solve the issue of inclusion in the order of the day and making the right decision. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:55:39]] For the 250. That's what I'm talking about. To the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr René van der Linden, Presidents, Heads of Government and Parliament of the European States. Ignoring the fundamental principles of democracy and contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine took a number of steps to disband the Ukrainian Parliament, which was formed on the basis of the 2006 elections. Internationally, these elections are recognized as legitimate and most democratic in all of Ukraine’s history. To achieve his goal, the President of Ukraine issued two decrees for which no legal basis is provided for the basic law of Ukraine. The deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a decision on the constitutionality of these decrees to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The court considered the case in an open session and moved on to the final stage of the decision-making process, but at this stage it experienced unprecedented interference with its activities by the President of Ukraine. For several days, the President of Ukraine unlawfully dismissed the three judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, making it impossible to make a decision that could be a starting point in the solution to artificial creation and political crisis. This is also mentioned in the official statement made by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which was made public yesterday. By such actions and a number of similar ones, especially with regard to the release and appointment of the heads of the courts of general jurisdiction, the President of Ukraine is demonstrating an attempt to usurp power. We express concern about the fact that the President of Ukraine is demonstratively ignoring the Paris recommendations, the resolution of which, since 19 April 2007, No. 1549 is proposed for conflict resolution to be based on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine. Since the adoption of the resolution, several decrees of questionable legitimacy have been issued, further deepening the political conflict, which is fully under the responsibility of President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine. The Parliamentary Coalition and the Government of Ukraine will continue to take steps to resolve the situation in a legal manner, consistent with constitutional law. We hope that this position will be taken with understanding." This is the content of the appeal and the determination to approve the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to that address, which is added to that decree. Registration number 3519. I'm voting on the basis of this project. Based on the base. [[10:58:49]] For 247 You can talk about it through additions and so on. Head and Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, I have two editorial details. First. In a paragraph that says that the President has dismissed the judges of the Constitutional Court of Three. I propose to replace it with "The President has issued a release order" because the issuance of an exemption decree does not legally entail exemption in the case in which we have it. The judges are not released for this time, and the decrees of release are. And the second clarification is editorial. There, at the end of the paragraph, too, the language is said to “see decrees” and so on. “The President has issued decrees”, there should be a subject of the adoption of normative acts. A number of decrees were issued by the President, making it impossible for the Constitutional Court to take a decision on the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u23	Okay, thanks. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. In the third paragraph, it is also necessary to make an editorial clarification in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Status of People's Deputies. Or you and I are Ukrainian national deputies. Therefore, instead of the “Deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” it is necessary to write down the “national deputies of Ukraine”. And I propose that you accept this statement as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u25	No more offers? None. That's why I'm putting Sergey the Head and Valentina Matthews, Valentin Grigorovovich, on the whole, to the vote. Please. [[11:01:00]] For 249 Decision taken. Once again, both Valentin Grigorovich Matthew and Sergei Petrovich Headate, your comments will be taken into account in the final editing of this document. We're predictable. Yes, I wanted to ask you again with such an offer. The Zaplatinski People's Deputy proposes to consider the decree on the annual message of the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's internal and external status, in which he reminds the President that he has not done what is provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine as his duty for two years. So I suggest, let's take this question up on Monday or Tuesday, next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u26	Well, if you insist, please, who's in charge of putting this in order of the day. [[11:02:25]] For 245 Decision taken. Valentin Mikhailovich, where are you? Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. Zaplatinski's reporter is the initiator of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u27	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, according to the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine should refer annually to the people of Ukraine and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a message of turn, as well as extraneous messages, if this is necessary for the country to be directed in an external economic and economic direction. So I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that he does not comply with article 85, paragraph 8, concerning the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to listen annually, and article 106, paragraph two. There's thirty-one point, and I'm drawing your attention to what the President has to do. And second, it's an annual message. Therefore, I propose that the President's attention be drawn to the failure to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, and secondly, to the Head of the Supreme Council, so that he may immediately address the President, so that we may receive this message, and that at the meeting of the Supreme Council, he should be considered urgently, because the state cannot evolve without a message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u28	Please, the question is Vladimir Mikolaiovich? None. Have a seat, please. Before this decision, there is an explanatory note that explains the need for such a decision, and its content is brief. First point. To draw the attention of the President of Ukraine to the failure to exercise the powers that rely on the President of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 106, paragraph two, of the Constitution of Ukraine. And the second. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council with an immediate request to the President of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an annual message on Ukraine's internal and external status, as well as to anticipate its hearing of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first order. And this decision takes effect from the moment it's adopted. Registration number 3520. The document is short, the questions didn't follow, and I understand that you support this document? Then I'll put him to the vote, please. [[11:05:48]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have on your hands and in your hands today a draft law on the addition of the Code of Procedure. [[on the signing date of the court decision]] In this regard, the deputy head of the Justice Committee, Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich, spokeswoman. [[I'm still reminding you, it's the second reading procedure.]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u29	I would like to remind you that on 3 April this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted in the first reading of Ukraine's Law on the Complementation of Ukraine's Master's Procedural Code on the Signature of Judgments. Article 85 of the Master’s Procedural Code is to be completed as part of a time limit for signing a full court decision in the event of the declaration of its introductory and resolution part. The Committee on Justice, in preparing this bill for its second reading, will consider proposals from the People's Deputies and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They were all taken into account in the work, as you can see from the comparative table that you have on your hands. Taking into account that the proposed changes are of great importance to operators in protecting their rights, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u30	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The authors of the amendments do not have any comments, as they are all taken into account. But perhaps there is some comment about these authors? None. So I'm voting on the adoption of this law as a whole, and I'm asking you to identify your deputies. [[Registration number 2823]] [[11:08:00]] For 253 It's done. Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Grapes. This is Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys, head of the Agrarian Policy Committee. Please. I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u31	Dear Alexander Alexander, honourable colleagues, Bill 2109 we voted with you in the first reading. I'd like to briefly remind you of the purpose of the bill for the second reading. The bill proposes to clarify the definition of terms in domestic wine and wine production, to specify a number of important provisions, to address the issue of the protection of wine products from falsifications with a view to preventing and importing into the country. The second reading by the Ukrainian National Deputies included 11 proposals, of which 9 were counted, 2 was rejected. 2 suggestions from the national deputy of Chernomorov regarding terminology in paragraphs 25 and 26 of article 1 have been rejected. “young wine”. Article 1, paragraph 26, takes into account the term “young wine ”: the wine is ordered to be supplemented by the words “under special technical conditions, the release of young table wines produced from the wineries of individual grape varieties or their mixtures is allowed and is carried out in the year of harvesting or no later than the completion of the fertilization process. The proposal of the 2nd Blackmoor People's Deputy has been rejected. The term “young wine ” is duplicated in paragraph 25 and paragraph 26. All other proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies to the bill are included, so the Committee proposes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Vines, which takes into account the proposals made by the National Deputies. Register 2109 Support in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u32	The honourable deputies, before the law, had received 11 comments and suggestions after the first reading. Of these, three were, more faithfully, two were rejected. And the committee's argument for this was made by Mikhailovich Vasilovich. There's no comment from the Blackmoor MP on this? None. Therefore, there is good reason to vote on this law, registration number 2109, as a whole as a law. I'm asking you to make up your mind. Please. [[11:11:10]] For 251 Decision taken. 251 deputies supported the project. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on irrigated land]] That's what Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, this bill was also voted with you in the first reading. Bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll leave you to it. I'll read a comparative table to the bill. The bill proposed to amend Ukraine's laws: “Concessions”, “On land melioration”, “To stimulate the development of domestic machinery for agri-industry. The proposed changes will expand the scope of legislation, improve relations in irrigation, and ensure that additional sources of financing are involved for the construction, reconstruction, and operation of irrigation systems. To date, there are only two proposals from the national deputies: Seminoga, Lukyanchuk. And these proposals are taken into account. Therefore, the Land Relations Subcommittee and our committee are proposing that the bill as a whole be voted in law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u34	There are no other thoughts about the amendments that came between the first and the second readings? Can I put this document to the vote? Registration number 20. Why can't you? Well, I'm asking you, is there a note? That's what you're saying. Please, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! This is the irrigation system of Ukraine, where 2.6 million hectares of land were irrigated and the dried land was regulated was 2.5 million. Thus, Ukraine had a meliorated land of 5.1 million hectares. Today, the whole system -- both irrigation and drying -- is destroyed. The bill proposed that irrigated lands and water be passed on to concessions. Think of what this is about, in whose hands the water strategy will pass. Whoever's going to do this isn't just making money, it's terrorizing all of Ukraine. You can't do that. I think it's a national law and I think it's a national country. So I would ask this law to be rejected, not considered, and to move on to it some time after a serious one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u36	What does the committee think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! Yes, this is a very serious matter, and it is not by chance that the Cabinet of Ministers has become the author or initiator of this bill for us to submit to the Supreme Council. The fact is, of the two million irrigated lands, there are barely 600,000 acres [600,000 ha] to date. Please tell me, if we don't do anything, will this system be gone in a year? So it's proposed. Well, let me tell you. Therefore, it is suggested that we allow the concession to transfer part of the irrigation system to include additional funds. Alexander Mikolaiovich, if we don't do this, let's put a few billion dollars in the budget to allocate to maintain irrigation systems -- and that's it, and the question will be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u38	Well, please don't discuss it with me, make an appointment before that. The second reading procedure is now under way. Alexander Mikolaiovich's proposal is not to vote, to reform this law. Mikhail Vasilovich proposes that he vote. I'm betting on the voting project that came from the committee, and you're defining yourself. [[11:15:24]] For-191 There was an offer to send it back to the committee for further consideration. I'm betting on the vote to re-send this document. Work on the second one again. [[11:15:52]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Make an offer, separate from the second session, and we'll take this up. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service is under consideration. Reports the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Stepanovich Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u39	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is proposed for a second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, registration number 2386, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill under consideration is to bring a series of other legislative acts into conformity with the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. This is particularly true of the laws of Ukraine on the Security Service of Ukraine, on the legal principles of civil protection, on the social and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families, on the military service, on the rule of law in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the pension insurance of persons released from military service and some others, etc. A second reading introduced 28 suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies. This is mainly true of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, and of the Ukrainian Act on the State Border Service of Ukraine. A total of 27 are included in the proposed proposals, and one is rejected. From the text of the bill, we have also deleted some items that are included in the law of November 3, 2006, which took effect on January 1, 2006. The changes and additions made to the project significantly strengthen the existing legal framework for the social protection and military service. Ministry of Defence, State Border Service Administration, Department of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Justice, and Office of the Ministers of Ukraine were involved in the preparation of the draft law for the second reading. Note was taken of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet, the implementation of its draft law does not require additional funding from the Ukrainian State Budget. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill is in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, other legislative acts, and has been called upon without notice. The National Security and Defence Committee considered this issue on April 4, this year, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u40	Thank you. There are 29 amendments to the law. I mean, they're all accounted for, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u41	Except for one, Alexander Alexander, which is rejected, but I think it's justified.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u42	Right. MP Lazko doesn't insist on reviewing it, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u43	Obviously not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u44	Don't insist. I have a question here, if we bring it in from the time it's published, it's not going to fall into the line of assignment of pensions, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u45	By no means, Alexander Alexandrovich. The adoption of this law will help to eliminate the inconsistencies and differences that exist in certain laws of Ukraine that regulate the conduct of military service and remove problems in the practical application of these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u46	I see. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u47	Stepanovich, your honorary colleagues, is all over the law taking into account today's proposal that the post, the head of the General Staff, be the commander of the Armed Forces. But we know that this position is today, tomorrow it may not be, because today the minister is not a military man, so the commander is not a defence minister, but a chief of the General Staff. And if the situation changes tomorrow or the next day, we'll have to change the law. It may be possible to take where the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, is simply to leave the Chief of General Staff. He will be the commander-in-chief, or he will be the commander-in-chief, the secretary of defense, how he will show his life so that we don't change the law again tomorrow and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u48	In principle, this observation may be accepted, although, on the other hand, if necessary, we could go back to the subject and accept the relevant changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u49	But would that not corrupt the law if we wrote it like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u50	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u51	It wouldn't spoil it. Then let's write it as cleverly as possible and the general of the army supports, yes, John Alexiovich. If so, then let us consider this correction. No, not like that. Yuri Grigorovitch, please. Please, Zubko, the future general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Alexander! The Chief of General Staff can only be a military man, it's in a civilian factory, it's a major engineer he can't be a non-professional person. So I think it could be just a military man, and, of course, he's the commanding officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u53	I mean, it would be enough to record the Chief of General Staff, and that would not, in principle, make the law worse. Even though he's absolutely right, Zubko, the Chief of General Staff is still, anyway, so far he's a military man, unlike the Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! I do not deny and, on the contrary, stress that the Chief of General Staff is a military man. But I am drawing your attention to the situation that has now arisen in the Armed Forces. Since the Secretary of Defense is not a military minister today, the duties of Chief of Staff should be assigned to the Minister of Defense as Chief of Staff. But this is today. Tomorrow the Secretary of Defense may be military or after tomorrow. So he's going to be commander-in-chief, not chief of general staff. And that's why it's better to just leave it in law -- the Chief of Staff, not adding the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, because that's what it is today, and tomorrow life can bring it back to normal, and we're going to have to change the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u55	My personal opinion. We can agree with that. But this is my personal committee, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u56	Let us now consult with the Supreme Council. Okay? It was suggested that this law should be voted on as a whole, with the amendment Adam Ivanovich made with editorial details. [[2386 registration number]] I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[11:24:10]] For 251 The decision on this point has been taken. You have a number of short-term laws on your list, if you support this procedure, I would ask you to determine how to vote on the procedure, please, on the procedure. Please. [[11:24:44]] For 241 A decision has been made. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act is being considered, this is a project by the National Deputy Skoubenko. [[on environmental certification]] Vladimir Petrovich Skoubenko is, isn't he? Who will be. From the committee, please. Deputies of Lisov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u57	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, invited! The first reading of the Supreme Council is the draft of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, introduced by the People's Deputy Skoubenko. [[on Environmental Expertise, Certification]] The purpose of the bill is legal regulation, the introduction of environmentally sound, technological processes, and the production of environmentally sound products through the introduction of environmental certification. The bill proposes to grant the right to voluntary or compulsory environmental certification to Ukrainian enterprises for the purpose of ensuring environmentally sound farming and other activities in the territory of our country. In the process of moving to international markets and obtaining loans from international financial institutions, Ukrainian businesses are increasingly faced with the need to obtain a certificate of quality of production and an environmental certificate. In line with the Declarations and the United Nations Convention on Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development, UNICEF-92 gradually becomes an integral part of the production process. One of the components of certification systems is the creation and certification of environmental management systems in enterprises. So today, these systems are created in 160 companies in Kiev, 117 enterprises in Dnipropetrovsk, 104 in Kharkiv, 70 in Donetsk, less in Zakarpatska, one enterprise in Cherkaske 6, Ravenska, 7 and 8 in the Hersonian regions. Therefore, there is an urgent need to introduce the concept of “ecological certification in the Ukraine field”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u58	Let me finish, and you finish, because you have two minutes of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u59	I'm sorry, I thought four, honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u60	Four thought. Let's do two. Two more.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u61	Retrieval of certificates shows the completion of a certain stage of the enterprise's work and ways of adapting it, as well as the requirements and rules of the world's level. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at its meeting noted that the creation of a certification system at the legislative level, as well as certified quality management systems in domestic enterprises and institutions, has become particularly acute in relation to the need to protect national economic interests in preparation for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization and European Integration. Therefore, the Committee on Environmental Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. I apologize for taking over the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u62	Have a seat, please. If you would like to make a statement about this document in favor or against, please write it down. Kovalevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u63	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill under consideration proposes to introduce the term “ecological certification”. By supporting the author's general idea of the need to adapt domestic producers to the requirements and rules of the world market, their motivation and incentive to produce and implement products of an appropriate environmental quality, I do not think the bill can be supported in the proposed version. First. The author proposes a solution to the mentioned problem at the legislative level by somehow introducing a separate article into the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, which is fundamental in the field of nature protection and determines the legal, economic and social foundations of the environmental protection organisation. Environmental certification also refers to the field of production and regulates relations with regard to the development and implementation of environmentally sound technological processes, the organization of production of environmentally sound products. It's different. It should be noted that detailed relations with regard to certification and standardization of the development of safe technological processes have already been regulated in the current legislation by specific legislation on certification of conformity, on standardization and other laws, on environmental auditing, on consumer rights protection, and on sub-legislative legislation. The introduction of an additional term “ecological certification” even to the basic law of Ukraine is groundless, will contribute to duplication and confusion in the legislative system. Third. The proposed edition of the term “ecological certification” cannot be supported because the author does not define the content of the concept of “ecological certification”, the conditions and the reasons for its implementation, both the general and the cases of voluntary and compulsory certification, is not defined by the body and its mandate to carry out “ecological certification”. Thus, the proposed standard has no regulatory burden and is of a rather eloquent nature. I propose to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u64	You're proposing to reject the bill, aren't you? Right. Have a seat, please. Are there not yet those who wish to speak? We can only be defined by a vote. There's a proposal for the developers to accept this document, and the MPs say they're against it. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[Registration number 2776]] Please identify yourself. Based on that, yes. [[11:32:22]] For-26 This project is not supported. He's getting off the case. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Red Book Act. [[on the protection of rare and threatened species, animals and plants]] This is a project by Alexander Dove. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Stepanovich Komar Mikola Stepanovich is one of the authors of this bill, I misreported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the need for the adoption of this bill, which we have tabled, arose after the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, in view of the need to bring the Law on the Red Book of Ukraine into line with it. The introduction of a series of fundamental changes aimed at improving the protection of rare species of animals and plants to the Red Paper of Ukraine seems logical. The bill is being introduced in exchange for the comments of the National Deputies and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. The bill aims to improve the protection of rare animals and plants, as well as the introduction of the Ukrainian Red Book Act in accordance with the Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct. The project is presented in the first reading. We will be ready to work on the second reading and submit a completed project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u66	Have a seat, please. What are some considerations regarding this document? Anyone who wants to speak for or against it, please sign in. Kovtunenko, please, from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u67	Dear Head, from the committee, the report. This bill is aimed at improving the protection of rare species of animals and plants, as well as the introduction of the Ukrainian Red Book Act in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, but requires a clear resolution of the situation, which deals with local red books, particularly as regards the lists listed with the Red Book of Ukraine. Making changes to article 19 in the proposed edition is considered to be of no value, since it may involve zoos, fertilizers, dolphins, and so forth. The addition of part four of article 11b to the fifth and sixth subparagraphs is unacceptable, since its content is duplicated by articles 36, 37 of the Animal World Act of Ukraine. Paragraph 6 of the first article 20 should be deleted in view of the fact that the law in force does not provide for the issuance of permits for transportation, implementation, import into Ukraine of Red Book objects. Therefore, the amendment to this article, which provides for the responsibility of violating legislation in the field of the protection of the use and reproduction of Red Book objects, is not justified. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, in its conclusion, proposes that the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Red Paper on the Improvement of the Protection of Rare Species of Animals and Plants be substantially revised. In view of the above-mentioned committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends a bill amending the Ukrainian Code on the Red Book of Ukraine on the Improvement of the Protection of Rare Species of Animals and Plants as a result of a review of the first reading to be submitted for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u68	Right. Who'd like to make a statement. Alexander Kovtunenko spoke from the committee. Who would like to comment on the content of this project, please write it down. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u69	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to both the report by Mikola Petrovich and the committee's report on the comments that are before this bill. Well, indeed, there is a point, but no one is asking questions about the adoption of this document as a whole. What's more, the comments that have been made today, at least I don't see them, or I don't see them as they could not be processed in the process of the second or the preparation of the document for the second reading. So I would like to support the need to improve this field of legislation, and I think we could vote in favour of this paper in the first reading, and in the process of redrafting it in the second reading, to take into account the warnings, the comments that have been made today. So the faction suggests that the document be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u70	Thank you for sharing in the discussion. I'd like to speak to Alexander Volodymyrovich. His proposal for further work is, in fact, well aligned with Peter Stepanovich’s proposal for further work from first to second reading. Then there'll be a movement in the document, or else it'll just block. There was a proposal by the authors and speakers, and the committee is not very much in conflict, so let's vote on the basis of the first reading. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Registration number 2314 shall be voted upon. [[11:39:05]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. A bill is being considered to amend the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Code of Masters on State Registration of Commercial Concession Contracts. [[Registration number 2609]] Information or a report on this subject will be provided by the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! The bill 2609 was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy on 14 March 2007, and it was decided unanimously to support it and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on first reading. This bill eliminates contradictions in a number of laws and regulations existing in Ukraine. What is it? Currently, there are 2 articles in both the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Economic Code that regulate the registration of a contract concession for the use of intellectual property. That is, in order to conclude a contract under which to transfer the rights of use for any intellectual property registered and patented, now and the Economic Code, and the Civil Code oblige this registration to take place in local public registration bodies, i.e. in those bodies that are currently registered by the enterprise. This is in the case of mountaineers or paradisaics, depending on the territorial unit. At the same time, these bodies are not engaged in this work because they are unable to do this work. This requires special knowledge, specialized knowledge. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine therefore approved the Statehood provision by its decision. on the State Department of Intellectual Property, which was established in the Cabinet of Ministers, and this function is performed by the State Department, that is, the central executive branch. And that's right. However, in order to resolve these contradictions between these laws and this Cabinet of Ministers Regulation, it is necessary to amend 2 laws: the Civil Code and the Economic Code. And this bill proposes to make these changes. That's why. The registration must now be made by a State registrar, i.e. the ladies where the creation itself is registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u73	The bill therefore proposes that this function be assigned to the central executive body, the State Department of Intellectual Property. And there is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that obliges the Department to do so. Let us legislate and consolidate this. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If you have an opinion on this matter, write it down. I understand that Yuri Mikolaiovich was so persuasive in his information, reports that they agree to do so. So there's a proposal to take the project as a basis. If there are any comments later, they can be made. So I'm putting this project to a vote as a basis. Registration number 2609. Please. [[11:43:12]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Who else thought this was recorded for discussion, I say again, it went to the vote. If you want to vote, I'll ask you a question. Who's in charge of voting? [[11:43:43]] For 222 This offer is not accepted. Work with the authors again. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2758, is under consideration. [[on the moratorium on the privatization of cultural property held in state and municipal property]] And the co-report makes it clear whether this report makes the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Chechetov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please. Oh, I missed 2747. Sorry, this is about the features of applying concession contracts to centralized water objects. Another water supply. I've just overturned this project. But the same Chechetov reports. So please, there's a small error here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u75	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The need to develop a draft law on the addition of supplements to the Act on Supplements to the Act on Concessions is due to the ineffective functioning of the utility market. Investments are needed to improve the efficiency of the provision of centralized water and water supply services. One form of investment involvement is the provision of suitable facilities for concessions. The granting of public and municipal property rights to concessions for centralized water supply and water supply activities is regulated by law. And this form of private investment involvement can be used by authorities authorized to manage these objects to invest in housing and utilities. However, it is necessary to ensure that the relevant bodies, concession-holders, take into account the features that exist in this area. First. Enterprises that operate centralized water supply and water supply are the subjects of natural monopolies. The other one. The activities of these companies have a significant impact on the standard of living of the population and the vitality of the areas they serve. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Concessions (for the specificities of the application of concession contracts for subjects of State or municipal property law used to carry out activities of centralized water supply and recovery can be considered as a basis, taking into account the following observations and proposals made. The Economic Policy Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u76	Please, who would like to make a statement on this subject? “For” or “against” – write down. It was a simple suggestion: To accept and work on this document, for the logic of the committee and the conclusions of the committee is convincing. I'm voting on this proposal -- to accept it as a basis. [[11:47:34]] For 248 Decision taken. Now, the project that I announced earlier, 2758 is about amending some laws on the moratorium on the privatization of cultural property.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u77	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's laws on privatization of state property, privatization of small state-owned enterprises and local self-government in Ukraine. [[low privatization]] According to which it is suggested that cults and other buildings, buildings, buildings, and parts thereof, which have been used by religious organizations and are held in state or municipal property that are not used for purposes, are not privatized, and are returned to religious organizations in order established by valid legislation. Despite the existing problem of the return of former religious immovable property, the bill under consideration cannot be supported for the following reasons. In general, the amendments proposed by the bill are fragmented and contradictory, do not solve the essentially declared problem of restoring historical justice in part of the return of the nationalized property, and do not comply with the commitments made by Ukraine on its accession to the Council of Europe. The proposed amendments do not deal with the main issue to be resolved in accordance with a commitment to the Council of Europe, namely, the return of the property and the establishment of clear rules for such return. It should also be noted that the issue of return to religious organizations of religious buildings and property is not subject to privatization legislation. Moreover, the bill does not comply with the Ukrainian laws on local self - government in Ukraine, on freedom of conscience, and on religious organizations, as noted in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So the proposed proposal, which is why it is proposed by the people's deputies Turkinov and Bodnar, is a draft of the Law of Ukraine amending certain laws on the moratorium on the privatization of property of a religious purpose held in public utility, to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u78	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who would like to comment on this? Sign up. Thank you. Then I want to take the floor on this point, because it's an important topic. This is about buildings that were used as cult buildings of their own time. But the right absolute committee, which says if it were a matter of religious buildings created by religious organizations, built or acquired, that is, property rights. were found and then alienated in some way, either in Soviet times or later, or in some other way, or as a result of a dispute between religious communities, then it would be necessary to consider the impossibility of privatizing them and passing them on to owners, in fact, owners. And since we're talking about what they've used, we have so much in our living quarters, we use some kind of room to do cult rituals, and perhaps because of the lack of them, maybe because the community is broken down into different denominations and so on. So, and then the use of this facility changed, so that doesn't mean that it has to be passed on, passed on to one community or another. I think that these issues need to be settled first, rather than proposing changes to the law, but that this is indeed a right committee, not an object of this law. I'm voting on a motion by the committee to reject this bill. Rather, it is not the vote, it is the basis, if you do not accept it, that is, it has not been accepted. Please, I'll bet you a vote on acceptance as a basis. [[11:51:55]] For two. Of course, if the drafter of this bill were here, maybe he'd convince us that the law is necessary, but he's not there, he's doing other things, so you can see that. I don't see Kajov Pinewich the Smoker, he can't see or hear the sound of the accordion, that's why. One of the cultural committees is who knows the essence of the law on strengthening the protection of property of creative communities in Ukraine? Because the head of the Yavorowski committee, who I recall reminding me of the importance of this issue, he does not, of course, feel that he is an MP, and he is obviously going to be a deputy. So I'm not asking this question for consideration by the Supreme Council, because it would be illogical to consider it without the author's presence. Ladies and gentlemen, before we announce the “Virgin” I would like to ask you to be guided. The Conciliation Council will meet on Monday next week. But it is not excluded that there may be a session of Parliament tomorrow or Monday. So be, work in the mode that we determined a month ago, and let him give you the talent in this matter, and in the meantime I declare the “Variance” provided for in the Rules. Write down who would like to speak on the subject he is concerned about. The first is by Alexander Vasilovich Galunenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Two days ago, you and I celebrated the 62nd anniversary of the Great Homeland War. In the war in which 20 million citizens of a large country were killed, of which 7 million were Ukrainians. The festivals that followed have once again made clear with whom the people are today, and who is the true patriot of all sectors of society, who is making every effort today to bring them together, and who is doing everything to break Ukraine not only territorially but also spiritually. Please tell me where and in what country of the world the President of the country might have allowed himself to come to the rostrum to welcome his people on the occasion of Victory Day and to leave with it in the front row, leaving tens of thousands of his fellow countrymen unheeded. Then to meet people who during those four years of war gave their health, lost their relatives and loved ones in the struggle not only with the fascists, but also with those whom today the President calls fighters for the independence of Ukraine. In other words, those who at the same time swore allegiance to Hitler and his coalition by shooting those who drove the plague from all over Europe. He built his entire statement on the need not only for the traitors and supporters of fascism to be forgiven but also for the rank of the heroes of the war itself. And you think he didn't realize that it didn't just hurt them, it really hurt them. I think I didn't just get it, but I still gave them moral wounds. After all that I have heard, I just once again bow to the courage of our veterans, that they have found strength in themselves so that they do not sincerely insult this man, who, having the highest position in the State received in a doubtful manner, has been directing all his efforts, not to improve the material and moral situation of the most deserving people of his State, but to the contrary, for two years. The people of Ukraine had seen where and how the opposition they led had led when laws were adopted to significantly improve the material condition of not only war veterans, but also virtually all sectors of the population. We saw the oranges and their supporters act on this day of victory. Their role was only to use this bright day as another attempt for their pyar and the further division of society. Yesterday, the President made another attempt to intimidate society into suggesting that he and his pocket council would decide what was supposed to be an adequate situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u80	Let me finish. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u81	Indicating states of emergency and use of force. Dear President Yushchenko, think, stop listening to yesterday's racketeers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u82	Thank you. Vladimir Zubik. I can't see. Please, Little Man. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, radio listeners! As a peasant, it is very common for me today, even though we have for two months been rebelling against the people, we are not interested in the work. When the decree of April 2 came out, the work of the field began, the main fields. For two months, the people were sown. But neither the President nor the opposition thinks that the June moon, the end of June, just when the cleaning begins, the cleaning begins, we who owe it to the state without bread, because you see what happens in the black market, the gasoline grows like mushrooms after the rain. I've been watching today. Five bracelets are already coming in at separate gas stations. For what? By what? Renovate With what? You'll see what's happening with the villagers, 80 percent of the people who are unemployed in the country, thought they'd survive, the state of the cow, the piggy, somehow survival, somehow I'll have the kids, I'll teach the grandchildren. So today, we have been told that our meat is not needed by anyone, the streams are coming from Poland and from Poland, it is rotting from all over the world, and it is coming to us, our peasant today to the city in order to receive the price that a peasant deserves, giving him half of what he deserves. I think the villagers were wise. From the early days of spring, when the work began in the field, and they began from April and ended around the end of October, the village even stopped the wedding, and the village wedding was always in November, December, and we who had thought of what we were upsetting people. I ask you, Victor Andryovich, tell your beloved friends not to rebel people if in the city someone wants to rebel and support you, rebel, let the peasants not bother, let them work normally, because a state without bread cannot be left without bread, for it will be a stain on the whole world and on you as President, and on us as members of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u84	Thank you, Omelyan Nikonovich. Please, Stepan Bulba, prepare Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba is a faction of socialists, Poltavščina. I think the President doesn't just want an election, but he understands that it takes a full young drummer to go to the polls and count on a baptized political party to win when the presidential rating is now virtually nothing, as they say, a plentou. So what does the President want? The President wants to make a new parliament legitimate in the form of elections, so that he can be completely controlled by it, that he can reverse the results of political reform and regain the power of President Kuchma's time. And in doing so, he takes such steps, setting conditions for the parliamentary coalition that make it impossible for us to participate in these elections. Because it is clear to all that elections can only be legally based. Because illegal elections will lead to the election of a parliament that can then be declared illegal by judicial decisions. We already have, say, two governors in the Kyiv region, we already have two general prosecutors, but this is essentially about individuals and, to a lesser extent, Ukraine. If the coalition agrees to illegal elections, we will have two parliaments, which already means two Ukraines. And in fact, that means losing Ukraine as such. And that's why I call on all the people's deputies, and I call first of all the coalition representatives, we should not agree to illegal elections. We don't mind the elections, but they should be based on the Constitution. And in that case, if we carry them out, the political crisis is really going to be eliminated. However, in view of the fact that the instigator is also still in power, I urge both the Parliament and the President to hold simultaneous elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u86	Thank you. Natalia Gorbenko, please. Behind her is Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The best political joke this week was the announcement of the publication of a full set of Presidential decrees on the dissolution of Parliament: two decrees on the dissolution of the Supreme Council, the appointment of the Attorney-General, the appointment and release of the Governor of Kiev, the appointment of the Chairman of the Pecher Court, the release of three judges and the appointment of two judges of the Constitutional Court. All of Ukraine is reading President Yushchenk's decrees today. He had already flooded all the modern - day Ukrainian writers and approached the writers of the novels of the detective genre. It is so impressive that all readers eagerly await new decrees. Yesterday, the president firmly refused to go to the presidential election for the term. And it was so impressive that he wouldn't go to the next election, because he probably wanted to be president for life. That is why we need to move towards a full-fledged parliamentary-presidential republic in which the President is elected by Parliament. After all, the democratic path towards prime minister power is capable of effectively solving all the problems of the country. This was proved by the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. And there are many other states where the presidency is not at all, and the prime minister is a prosperous country. But the most important thing in any model is to have the optimum powers of every branch of power, so that there is no unnecessary competition and opposition, which we unfortunately see in our country today. We're not looking for our country's enemies, our party, and the coalition as a whole have shown our ability not to look back, not to collect accounts, but to move forward and to resolve issues in the interests of the entire Ukrainian people. The Prime Minister is in agreement with the President, but unfortunately, so far our opponents from the orange camp are not demonstrating the same direction of thought and action. They offer us to forget our promises made during the election campaign, actually offering betrayal. When the President proposes to fully and unconditionally support his program by trying to argue what the people want, should we remind Yushchenka that only a fraction of the voters voted for him and those who did not come to the elections are automatically supporting the President's policy? What if this rate supports only 14 percent of the population? Julia Timoshenko went to the polls with a rather harsh criticism of the President's position and the President's politics. Based on the 14 percent of the population I've talked about, the President invites us to disarm before him and pledge allegiance to his anti-constitutional decrees. That is exactly what is contrary to the principles of democratic power. In 2004, the movement to the parliamentary and presidential power in Ukraine will inevitably lead to the election of the President by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u88	Let me finish. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u89	Because in all parliamentary and presidential republics, presidents are elected by Parliament. That's what the President is most afraid of. But this rule will put an end to the political crisis that exists in our nation today and will no longer be repeated. Today, we need to get used to living in a completely different system of power, where the President remains a fairly influential subject, but he is far from all - powerful and cannot, as before, promise the people anything because he no longer has any prior powers. Today, the authorities are more evenly divided between the President, the Government and the Supreme Council, and it is simply not possible to hold a timely or successive election without the agreement of all these branches of government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Oleg Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots! Oleg Kalashnikov, National Unity Coalition, Party of Regions. Respectable compatriots, 9 May, a historic date in the history of all mankind, and on this day Kiev was joined by the true patriots of Ukraine, people for whom the memory and history of their country is the main symbol in the future of the State and the Power. Together, the members of the Coalition of National Unity were assigned flowers, and together we went with the clergy, and we went together, bringing together the Ukrainian nation. This association is based on memory, for without memory no nation can speak of its future. We walked on the holiday streets of Kiev with flowers, with open faces, under the slogan “Heroism, Patriotism, Statehood!”, we walked with veterans, went and proved that the people of Ukraine alone would not succeed in dividing it. On that day, we were sincerely proud of what was happening in both the Ukrainian Parliament and all cities. We went with a symbol, we talked about Grandpa's victory -- my victory, I remember, I'm proud -- this is the foundation and foundation of the unification and consolidation of Ukrainian society. And the fact that, despite the agreements reached, the columns of Kiev were literally brutally stopped and not admitted to the Museum of the Great Native War, just under the noise of the state's going on there, it infuriates me, and infuriates all the veterans. What a state action in which a state can take place without fellow citizens, without participants in a great victory, without those who are descendants, without those who today carry the honour and conscience of this Ukrainian state and who do not impose illegal, unconstitutional measures on the solution of an artificial political crisis on the part of political regents and politicians. I want to talk to the representatives of the power structures. We are beginning to be threatened by decisions of the National Security and Defence Council. I'm talking to every patriotic officer, and I'm convinced that 99 percent of the officer corps sometimes won't allow themselves to carry out criminal orders. I'm only asking you. Serve Ukraine! Love Ukraine! Protect Your Parents! Keep together with the Ukrainian Parliament, with the Ukrainian government led by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic the unity of the people, loyalty to the people of Ukraine, loyalty to the choice made by the people of Ukraine in 2006. I call upon every decent officer to remain faithful to the Constitution. I have the honour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u92	Thank you. Vlaschenkov, please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished MPs, respected voters! I would like to draw your attention to the impact of local self-government on the life of society. If we define democracy as the power of the people and the deputies as its electorate, we are surprised by the continuing attempts to ignore not only this power of the people but also the views of the electorate themselves. I will not say for long that the Presidential branch is trying to disband a parliament that has been authorized by the people for a certain period of time and that none of the electorates has allowed the President to limit his own electoral rights to a period not provided for by electoral law and the Constitution. As a representative of the Odessa region, I would like to refer to the rights of the territorial community of the Odessa region and the deputy corps representing its interests in the Odessa District Council. At a recent session of the Odessa Regional Council, his deputies addressed the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine and the Council of National Security and Defence, calling for the prevention of multinational Si Breez exercises in 2007 in the territory of the Odessa region. The MPs made it clear in the text that the conduct of such exercises in the Odessa region was contrary to the will of the inhabitants of the region and would lead to an exacerbation of the already crisis situation in the country, which coincided fully with the opinion of the inhabitants of the Odessa region. However, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has ignored the position of the Odessa voters and does not intend to cancel the holding of military exercises in the territory of the Odessa region of the military exercise “Si Breez-2007”. According to the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Sergey Kirichenko, the exercises scheduled for July 2007 will be well under way. The same position was taken by the President of the Odessa Regional Public Administration, Ivan Vasiljevic Plačkov, who promised the leadership of the Ministry of Defence that all training and training activities were supported by the leadership of the area. In our view, the position of residents of the Odessa region on the subject of such exercises shows the results of last year's elections. In the Odessa region, political forces have won a decisive victory, whose programmes provide clear guidelines for preventing Ukraine from entering NATO. Therefore, the treatment of the district constituency certainly reflects the attitude of the Odessa voters. It is not clear why officials from the Ministry of Defence and the district public administration ignore people's views. Is that not a sign of a violation of the norms of democracy and peoples'rights, as well as of the urgent need for a fundamental reform of local self-government, on which our political power has long been insisting? Another aspect of the problem is that the conduct of military exercises certainly entails a serious burden on the environment of the Odessa region, one of the highest levels of cancer and cardiovascular disease in Ukraine. So today's weapons games can turn into serious problems tomorrow. We'll make money renting ranges, and tomorrow we won't know where to find millions to restore the health of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-11-m0.u94	Thank you. On the subject of teaching: they need to be done on a legal basis, and you know that the President thinks that there is no parliament, and therefore, without a doubt, there is no law that teaches not only in the Attirement but also in other parts of our country. And there is no doubt that last year’s practice has shown that our citizens will not allow illegal teachings in their territory. This applies not only to Odessa, but also to the areas where education is to take place this year if it is not signed by the President of the relevant law. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to participate in the “Variable” had the opportunity to realize their desire. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. The next week we have a calendar schedule -- plenary, but the meeting, again, according to the decision that we have taken with you: the order of work, the special order of work of the Supreme Council for this period -- the head of the Supreme Council or the First Deputy may call if necessary. If that is not necessary, we will have a scheduled meeting on Tuesday, and on Monday we will have a meeting of the Conciliation Board. Good luck.
