ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m1.u1	Good evening, distinguished national deputies, I ask you to register. [[16:02:03]] There were 226 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I can't put anything to the vote right now because the Conciliation Council is continuing. Let me brief you on where we are. They stopped at what they started at, that's the distribution of committees. In principle, the final distribution of committees on the approach to factions is now just two contentious committees – legal policy and judiciary. And I think the faction leaders will agree on which and who will be attached to the appropriate committee. Then we got close, namely, to the distribution of the first deputies and deputy heads of the committees. And unfortunately, here again came some disagreements in that part of the way to represent other governing bodies of the committees, i.e., to whom a committee or a committee goes away, most of them or minorities. However, we're not stopping the negotiations, I think we're going to be dividing not only the committees we've shared by the end of the day, but we're going to be dividing the first interlocutors and substitutes, and, in fact, the secretaries of the respective committees. A very important thing I would ask, first of all, is the faction of the Party of Regions to do. We've got all four factions filed a personal composition of the committees, and we're now waiting for the committee's personal composition from the Party of the Regions. Why is this important to us? If we do not have a personal composition, we cannot, in accordance with article 34 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, determine whether or not there will be a first deputy in any other committee, as the corresponding article of the law determines that, depending on the number of members of the committee, the governing bodies are formed. So I hope that within half an hour, the Party of Regions will submit a personal composition of the committees. Second, what we're going to do. I think after the agreement procedure has been completed, the Committee Division Order is a matter of day-to-day order formation for tomorrow. It's a very important thing. I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine has been reintroduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the candidature of Timoshenko Yuli Volodymyrovna for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. According to the Rules, namely, article 20, paragraph 4, of the Rules, the Head of the Supreme Council is obliged to include, without discussion, the day-to-day issue relating to appointment or withdrawal. [[I would like to highlight this point -- immediately and without discussion.]] appointment or removal from the respective positions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to ensure the constitutional process for the functioning and appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, we will discuss when the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine will take place tomorrow. The second very important element is that two factions speak for changing voting. [[This is the faction of "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" and the faction of "The Yulia Tymoshenko"]] A change in voting is foreseen by the relevant article of the Supreme Council Rules, which provides for three voting methods. In view of this, we have the next stage of the discussion -- conditions for a change in voting. In doing so, I note that the change in voting is a procedural decision for which 150 national deputies should vote. This is a direct rule of the Rules. In view of that, I think the approach is the following. The decision should go to the Supreme Council Hall solely in agreement, because the candidature and the vote for the post of Prime Minister should proceed according to all normal European standards -- calmly, with the perception that the Supreme Council has a majority and the ability of the majority to vote accordingly. And last from your permission message. Unfortunately, I was not given the opportunity to discuss and, in fact, to make a decision on the testing of the "Council" system and on the provision of clear technical characteristics for the further operation of the "Council" system. We cannot question further the functioning of the “Council” system as a whole. So for me, I think it's very important for each of you to have objective information about the work of the "Council" electronic system. That is why I took advantage of my right as Head of the Supreme Council and commissioned the Supreme Council apparatus to conduct today a comprehensive system of testing according to the highest standard of the Council system. I would ask the Counting Commission and the head of the Counting Commission to take part in the testing of this system today. Given that the draft agreed, the draft decision is not available at the moment, given the unanimous -- I would like to emphasize once again that it is not the will of individual deputies or individual leaders -- but for the unanimous decision of the Conciliation Council, I would like to ask you to close the evening meeting of the Supreme Council and to meet tomorrow in standard mode at 10 a.m. I hope that there will be agreement on both the draft committee-sharing order and the voting procedure itself for the Prime Minister's candidature. Thank you for your attention. If you don't mind, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council will be closed. Tomorrow's 10:00 a.m. Thank you. Counting committee, I'd like to meet you in my office. Thank you.
