ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, other participants in meetings, journalists, TV sets, radio audiences! April 20, Friday. Parliament continues to work. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:05:33]] Ready to work 259 national deputies. The morning session is open. In accordance with the Rules, petitions, petitions, parliamentary requests are announced on Friday, but before that I wanted to welcome on your behalf the birthday of the national deputies, Sergio Fedorovich. [[Applause]] Maltsev Volodymira Alexandrovich and Poljančica Mikhaila Mihajlovich. [[Applause]] Although not everyone is here today, because some people are in a forced vacation, but, nevertheless, birthday is a special day, and people must be welcomed. I think they'll be given our greetings. As far as the MPs are concerned, they are. John BONDARCHUK to the President of Ukraine on the refusal of the President’s Secretariat to accept a parliamentary appeal regarding the clarification of Presidential Decree of 02.04. In 07 C.E., the definition of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies, which are not directly related to the powers of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'd like to ask your permission to support the content of this decree. Please. [[10:07:26]] For 171 Please! Table of contents is supported. For sending this order to the President, this request to the President, I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please. I'm begging you, calm down! [[10:07:59]] For 251 Decision taken. ANTEMUCA’S Anatolya to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper examination of the facts set out in Alla Slobodanuk’s statement regarding the baseless attraction to criminal responsibility. And Jury MIROCHNIKA to the Ukrainian Supreme Audit Authority regarding the failure to provide information on the verification of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. These requests will be properly processed, sent to the specified addresses. Who. We're on an agreement that we set up last week at a parliamentary meeting that would like to make a statement on the assessment of what is happening now, and not only, please sign up for the speech. Now from the deputies, please. Under the previous arrangement, everyone has three minutes. Please, Dry Jaroslav Petrovich, from the faction. Richter's acting for him, please, then Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexander, the honourable ones present! Allow me to make a statement to the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. The “Regions” faction supports the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted yesterday in Strasbourg during its consideration of the Ukrainian question. We understand how much speculation there will now be on the subject of PARE resolutions, its text. After all, there have been too many specialists in Ukraine, in paws, in specific interpretations of laws, regulations, and even the Constitution itself. So today we will stop at the key points of the PARE resolution, the content of which we fully share and will guide them in our subsequent political and legal actions. First. The PARE resolution celebrates Ukraine’s achievements in the queen’s expansion of democracy, particularly the Ukrainian authorities have created all conditions for affirming freedom of speech, freedom of meeting, freedom of the media. Today, we have real confirmation of how mature civil society is in the country, and it is clear to Europe that an honest, free and transparent and democratic election will be held in 2006, resulting in a perfectly legitimate composition of Parliament, a government headed by Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic. The other one. The Parliamentary Assembly regrets that the recommendations and warnings given by the Venice Commission in 2005 have not been met. The oranges then forgot about Ukraine’s construction on European principles as soon as they reached power. Of course, in 2005, their opinions were limited to positions, spheres of influence, money, and compromises. Third. We completely share paragraph 5 of the resolution, which gives clear priority to solving the existing crisis in a legitimate, strict constitutional and peaceful way. In doing so, legitimate early elections are recognized as a way of resolving the crisis only, I stress, only if they only go through with the provision of Ukrainian legislation and the provisions of the Constitution following the Constitutional Court's conclusions. The second option that European democratic tradition offers us is to compromise through negotiations. Four. The Assembly of the Council of Europe welcomes and fully supports the continuation of the dialogue of the political leaders of Ukraine during the crisis. This dialogue as long as it has been a successful guarantee of stability and civil tranquillity in the country. Fifth. We support the clear and unequivocal position of PARJE, which considers the imperative mandate unacceptable in a democratic state. Unfortunately, today we have to find the active use of the imperative mandate by the parliamentary opposition. Six. PARAJE once again made it clear that revolutionary desirability cannot replace normal and purposeful work for the establishment of democratic institutions in the state, the establishment of clear legal mechanisms, their functioning and legal safeguards. The early elections as a democratic institution of political withdrawal should have a clear normative basis. Early elections are not a means of political rematch, but a legal procedure for identifying people who should be organised honestly and fairly and strictly in accordance with the legal procedure. Seven. The Assembly reiterates that the only body of constitutional justice is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, its exclusive right to be guaranteed and respected. Pressure in any form is unacceptable and must be investigated and prosecuted in criminal order. The Constitutional Court’s decision must be declared binding on all parties to the conflict. Knowing the lack of expertise and political involvement of the presidential community, which filters and gives Victor Yushchenk a distorted interpretation of the facts, the faction of the Party of Regions addresses the President, does not limit its information field by monitoring events and evaluations that have been censored by the heads of the Secretariat. Ask for the full text, Mr. President, the resolutions of PARJE, and you will take the only right decision based on the Constitution and the law. The faction of the Party of the Regions stands for, firstly, the continuation of the political dialogue at the highest level with a view to a legitimate, peaceful exit from the political crisis, the willingness to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. We support active cooperation with the President of Ukraine in stabilizing the political situation; his appeal to the leaders of the opposition to stop the destructive efforts aimed at further exacerbating the political situation; his re-establishment of the reform of the Constitution of Ukraine and the need for legislative consolidation of a number of basic bills; his continued active cooperation with the experts of the Venice Commission for the legislative consolidation and real development of the most important institutions of European democracy; his commitment to the accession of members of the Council of Europe; his continued reform process; his failure to adopt political extremism as a decisive factor in the political and economic situation and the threat to the development of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Kuzmenko from the Socialists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u4	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, respected presidency. Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words on behalf of the faction, including regarding the current situation. First and foremost, in my opinion, we need to pay attention right now. I think that the relevant law enforcement agencies, primarily the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Security Service, should give proper legal assessment and conduct investigations into the facts of direct calls for non-compliance with the decision of the legitimate State body, which is the Constitutional Court, and thus called upon the State to attempt a coup d'état in Ukraine. These calls were uttered entirely by specific people. They're fixed on video. None of the speakers have taken their words back, and so we have a public call for non-compliance with decisions, non-recognition and non-compliance with decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It's extremely serious, and I think instead of looking for some compromise that the Security Service is currently doing, it has to do its direct work, which is to protect the constitutional system in Ukraine. This is one of the main tasks of this service. I would like my presentation to be accepted by the Security Service’s management in this regard. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to refer to the leadership of the so - called opposition. Do not translate your party decisions into the people of Ukraine in the form of lists. You want the people of Ukraine to answer for yours, you think, errors in the formation of party lists. Do you want the budget to be spent so that the period of unscrupulousness, the lack of good governance in the state would be for about six months, and all these demands would just be to correct your errors in the formation of party lists? Isn't that too much? Please wash your underwear at home, do not force the people of Ukraine to perform as a slingshot. It's none of his business. His business is to work, to obey laws, and to run an electoral campaign at the right time. I would also like to remind you that some opposition party leaders swore and feared that they were personally responsible for everyone on their list, for every national MP who went through their lists. So, please tell me, are you ready to answer? Answer me. But do not force the Ukrainian voters to do so. Don't make the state do it, it's none of its business. And the last. I would like to refer to the national MPs who are not in this room today, to the National Deputies of the faction “Our Ukraine” and the BUT faction. Dear colleagues, you have been entrusted by the electorate to represent the people of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. They, as one of the intransigence opponents put it, “recruited you to work”. Please do the work you have been assigned to do. Do not try to throw your reluctance to work at him. I am confident that most of the deputies of Our Ukraine, I am Blocking Yulia Timoshenko, are normal people who are willing to work and who can benefit the Ukrainian people by their work, to build an independent Ukrainian state. I call on them: go back to the hall and work, don't listen to your impeccable leadership, your place in this room, your place with us. And together we can get the result for Ukraine that we all promised in our election programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u5	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Tissue? Please, Tachenko. Get ready, Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm going to speak on a simple matter, but the most life-giving issue for our nation. Because in the last period of the work of the Supreme Council, we have focused on whether or not to be a parliament. But we have a more important national issue. In Ukraine today there is a period of disaster with land use and all land resources. Land robbery is taking place in the country today. And so on behalf of the Communist faction, I want to make some of my comments and suggestions on this global issue. In my speech, I would like to draw, honourable friends, your attention and the MPs and Ukrainian citizens, to the fact that in recent years, especially with the start of a land reform that has been under way for almost 16 years, the work aimed at protecting Ukraine's land funds has been suspended. In 16 years, two million hectares [two million ha] of land have been lost, equal to the largest area of our republic, Odessa, 2 million ha. Infringements of the anti-errosive organization of the territories as a result of the fragmentation of land areas, the destruction of reforestation, the violation of the seismic system, the cessation of anti-errosive measures, have led to increased washing and ventilation processes in most regions of our republic. The area of soils is increasing by 100 - 150.000 hectares annually. In this way we don't choose a gross annual collection of agriculture crops for almost 25 to 26 billion dollars. The catastrophe display of wind erosion, of the storms that took place from 23 to 24 March this year in the steppe area of Ukraine, covered about 2 million hectares -- the Hersons, Zaporezka, Mikolai district. As a result, the loss of soil on hardwood agrophons reached up to 40 tons from each hectare, in crops of bright crops — up to 50 tons, in crops of winter crops — up to 15 tons from each hectare. In the region of Mikolaiiv, for example, where dust storms have affected more than 650,000 acres [650,000 ha], this year’s crop has been lost for up to 1 billion dollars. Questions. Today, we need elections and we need to spend money on new elections, whether we need to use that reserve fund that's budgeted marginal to preserve the foundation of our being, that's land. Unsatisfactory land protection measures are primarily explained by inadequate financing of these works. Of the 2 billion dollars, these are the costs that come into the land tax budget each year, they are used to protect land between 10 million and 0.01 percent. So far, the national soil fertility programme has not been approved in Ukraine, national land protection standards have not been developed, national soil fertility control has been neglected. And how such science has virtually halted its activity. Therefore, I consider it necessary for Alexander Alexandrovich and Adame Ivanovich to assign the Cabinet of Ministers on such matters. First. To implement the Act on State Control over Land Use, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy will establish a state service for the protection of land as a government authority for State control and administration. The other one. Ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act on centralisation of 30 per cent of land taxes and direct them to land protection measures. The third is to accelerate the completion of the development and submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the National Program of Use and Protection of Grounds. Instruct the relevant authorities to develop and approve national standards on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u7	Alexander Mikolaiovich, excuse me, sit down, please. Well, we're abusing those -- five minutes instead of three. Once again, Alexander Mikolayovich, well, all levels are in the same condition, all levels are in the same condition. Finish it. Instead of three or five minutes, there is not enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u8	Give me half a minute. Dear friends! There was a State Committee on Land Resources in Ukraine. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers eliminated this agency during this period, eliminated the State Committee, and organized a company that was handed over to the Ministry of Nature for the protection of nature, where non-experts were picked up, people from the streets. Are they managers to turn the State Land Fund into an agency today? Is that allowed? And we're having an election today. Elections are a penny against the price we're losing on our fertile lands today. So I think I should assign the Cabinet of Ministers to return immediately to this issue, to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council to consider and return this State Committee to the position that it has so far been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u9	Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Alexandrovic, distinguished members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished representatives of the media, dear compatriots! National Deputy of Ukraine Lev Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Yesterday, 19 April, information and statements were received on all television channels by the leaders of BUT, Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine, Viacheslava Kirilenko, in which they had in fact uncovered a new plan of coup d'état by collecting 150 signatures of the Ukrainian people's deputies in force. This is a plan for another attempt to prepare for the start-up, as they say, of Ukraine's supreme legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and, as a result, the launching of an effectively functioning government under the leadership of Viktor Fedorović Yanuković. It was planned. Two so-called inter-party congresses were planned and conducted in secret, in violation of the laws and regulations of these blocs. The purpose of these rallies is simple to force the members of the BUT and Our Ukraine bloc to do so again! - to write a declaration of approval of the Ukrainian people's deputies. The second task is to delete the lists of candidates for the Ukrainian People's Deputies and to prevent them from coming to the Supreme Council in exchange for those who have left and who have written a statement by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. By doing so, they tried to resolve a programme to break up the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and through a new presidential decree to bring about the dissolution of Parliament now in accordance with article 90, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Constitution, which said that parliamentary sessions could not begin during the 30 days and one of the next sessions. And this is a new Jesuit plan to involve the country in a new front and political struggle. And this is another blow to Ukraine's economy to address all social programmes for the people of Ukraine. One goal is power at all costs. The Bureau of the Party of Industrialists, Businessmen of Ukraine declares: we stand and stand for the consolidation of Ukraine, for the development of Ukraine's economy, for raising the standard of living of our people. We are for dialogue and we are ready for it. We state that our party has not been invited to the summit, the so-called “Our Ukraine inter-party assembly”, and that we have not participated as a constituent of the constituency and therefore, in accordance with the requirement of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act and the agreement to create the “Our Ukraine” constituency, this assembly cannot be legitimate and all its decisions cannot be legitimate. The “Our Ukraine” inter-party assembly failed to decide on the issue of the re-establishment of the list of people's deputies and has no legal chance of ousting these lists for new candidates to the People's Deputies on the common list of the “Our Ukraine” Block. The Bureau of the Political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs refers to all members of the People's Party from Our Ukraine and BUIT. You are the first-ranking civil servants who took an oath of allegiance to the people of Ukraine. Don't let yourself and the country get into Julia Timoshenko's next adventure. We have opposed and opposed the imperative mandate, and the Council of Europe has reaffirmed our right. We are in favour of dialogue, we are in favour of a legal solution to the political conflict through the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We address the President of Ukraine, Victor Andreevich. Victor Andreevich, do not let yourself get into another corner of the opposition as a guarantor of the Constitution, and we ask you to think first of all about Ukraine and its people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u11	The cook passes the word to Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u12	Thank you, Igor Teodorovich, for giving the floor. Dear People's Deputies, yesterday when I met our constituency from Zaporozhye, I was asked the question of how we, the people's deputies, assumed that some distraught girl, who had chosen a beloved doll, had made such a fuss that she had put the whole country to rest. I think our President has the courage to be a man and not be like Malvina and Artemon in the story of the Buratino Adventure. Now, basically. Yesterday, the leaders of the Party of Batkivščina held further visits entitled “Closed Assembly”. As one delegate said, it was so closed that not even a part of the delegates were invited. At the event, one assembly cancelled the decision of the other, and a faction meeting was held at the same time. And, according to reliable sources, they did not cancel the 1917 revolution, otherwise they would have had to be responsible for expropriated property, which was mentioned during a visit to the United States of America if they believed the Internet. A whole group of members of the people were expelled from the assembly. Paradox: They don't recognize the Supreme Council unless there's a Supreme Council, so there's no faction. How can you delete something that doesn't exist? It's just ridiculous. I understand that I still have no decision on what we've been expelled for, but I think that we are doing our constitutional duty by expressing the interests of the electorate, not running around the corner, but voting for social laws, including assistance for children, travel, disabled people, war veterans, Chernobyl. This list can be continued. I want to talk to the constituency. Here's the block program that says, "We approve our state pension system" -- we don't vote, "we'll do the programs. “ and so on — we do not vote, we will raise our scholarships — we do not vote, we will help — we do not vote, we do not vote. I want to address the members of the party, that's where the real betrayal is. Can a person stay in a party that has changed its ideology in its pre-election programme? The party leader is well aware that if we do not stop the flow of people's deputies who have been disappointed in these ideals that have been confessed, the faction will exist only on paper. Let me give you an example of the faction of the sample box. There are such words as “members of the party” and so on, and there may also be “other national MPs who.” That is, double morals. You can't come from us. Unfortunately, there's been a party crisis. Over the past two years, especially before the elections, people have come to the party, completely away from the party, with only personal, useful goals. As a result, the new leadership environment has taken all measures to place in the leadership of party organizations areas people only on the basis of personal devotion, even if they are free. To date, virtually everyone has been removed from office except for the heads of the regional party bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u13	Give me your word, let it end.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u14	We were few, a few tens of thousands. Regrettably, in protest against such acts from the party only last year, there were about 52,000 people, you will think about it. It's a shame to see that three people teach us how to live. I'm sorry, but I have a more productive job than all of these three combined. I am surprised by this image, which, in implementing the directive, I do not want to read now about how to deal with counter-promotion against “national self-defence”. Or, for example, literally: "Unfortunately, the management of NSOs has launched a systematic advocacy campaign against BUT. The situation requires active opposition to the Ukrainian people's deputies from BUT." There they are, these directives. And today, I'm sorry, I'd like to say, like three in a boat, not counting a dog. In conclusion, I would like to address the People's Deputies of the Party of Fathers. They call me and tell me that they are practically forced to write a statement. Get your courage, give it up. If you can't, sign. We will consider here in the Supreme Council when we consider, but in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u15	Thank you. The word has Popescu. I'm stressing because so that the radio audience doesn't think it's a member of the Party of the Regions speaking. This is a representative of the Party “Bloika Timoshenko” just speaking. And John Popescu represents the Party of the factions of the regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u16	Thank you. Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Respectable colleagues, respectable voters, respectable Ukrainian people! I participated in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which adopted a resolution that is very balanced, but which today some media and our opponents are trying to deal with. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the following points. First, we express our solidarity with the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that the Assembly considers it unacceptable in a democratic State to have a peremptory mandate. Moreover, we do not support the practice of political party leaders speculating in the term of a peremptory mandate, forcing their members to give up their parliamentary mandates, as this is a reminder of the totalitarian system's rudimentaryity If they speak of democracy, if they speak of a European choice, they must abandon this practice. Both the members of the armed forces and the BUTT and our Ukraine, the members of the Supreme Council should know that each of them, if he wishes to give up his mandate, must stand on that stand individually and say that this is his personal decision or that he has been forced to do so. That's the first one. Secondly, we welcome the recognition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as the only body of constitutional justice. We also agree with the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Thomas Hammarberg, who, while appreciating the developments surrounding the Constitutional Court of Ukraine when he tried to block his work and attempt to discredit individual members, said, quote literally: “Everything must go only in accordance with the rule of law and no one should sabotage the work of the judges.” The distinguished representatives of the opposition, if you are Democrats, if you speak of the rule of law, you must submit to any decision of the Constitutional Court. On this basis, we call upon the President of Ukraine, our opposition colleagues and all political forces to act only within the legal field, in strict conformity with the constitutional norms and to adopt without reservation any decision of the Constitutional Court. The Party of Regions and members of the Coalition are prepared to make any decision. Next moment. We welcome the decision of the monitoring committee and the Parliamentary Assembly to invite the Assembly to request the Venice Commission to reach its conclusion on the Ukrainian legislative framework for early parliamentary elections, as well as possible improvements in electoral legislation taking into account European practice, as there is no legislative basis for early elections today. Thirty seconds, please. Dear colleagues, it is very interesting to see what amendments our colleagues in the opposition made. Our opposition colleagues made an amendment not to support open party lists because they are afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u17	Let me finish this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u18	Because they fear that the electorate will not put the bird against their names. They withdrew the paragraph on the peremptory mandate. They tried to change the fact that we had to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Respectable colleagues, a respected Ukrainian people, if we are Democrats and we are Democrats, we want the rule of law to prevail, we must only act within the Constitution. One English conservator who approached us at the Parliamentary Assembly said: “We recognize only God and the Constitution”. And if you're talking about believing in God, your respectable Mr. Yushchenko, you must also recognize this Constitution. Otherwise, you're not a conservator, you're not a liberal, you're not a Democrat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u19	We used time. Let us briefly summarize the outcome of the discussion. What has been said by the factions and statements, especially by the delegates of the Ukrainian Parliament at the Paris Assembly, I think I am valuable. You know, yesterday, at the invitation of the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, I was in Strasbourg, and I was able to meet President Van der Linden, with Secretary-General Terry Davis, with reports on the situation in Ukraine that are monitoring Ukraine's commitments to the Council of Europe -- Severinsen and Wolvend. I want to say that today's speeches and the statement that Raisa Bogatirov made make it very clear that the assessment of the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is what is happening in Ukraine because of what is happening in Ukraine. I wanted to highlight a few points. First of all, we must respect the Constitution, the principles of democracy, respect the Constitutional Court’s decisions, not hinder its work, and support the line of political reform on the introduction of the European governance model. And the delay in this case is exactly the source or environment of all kinds of conflicts. We must be able to implement the second stage of political reform, and local self - government should be given all authority, status, financial opportunities, and organizational in order to exercise authority on the ground. And we will. And there are journalists and politicians, members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and here on television we have heard a lot of information, and the talkers have been interested in thinking about what is now known about the statements that 150 deputies will form their powers that will not work in Parliament, well, and others, sorry, “hymen’s chickens”. I'd like to make a few comments on this. 81 Article 81 of the Constitution provides for the order in which the members of the national parliament may be appointed. He makes a personal statement, one of seven reasons, a personal application for consideration by the Supreme Council. Not to the President, and not to the list. Then, as you recall, we've had this story here in the summer of last year. It turned out to be a test that no one had written and no such statements. So it's all pure pear. It's like a Russian saying, "And the fish will sit down, and the deputy will stay." There's nothing else. I would like us to give a sober assessment to all these vocalists, no one who needs a statement. Let's move on. At the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly, I wanted to draw attention to the representative of the House of Yulia Timoshenko, but they were already on their way from a non-existent parliament, but on the ship, they normally go, they remember that they are deputising. He spoke about the fact that the referee of the Constitutional Court voted in favour of President Kuchmi's third term. Well, that's a lie. Because she was then a representative of Ukraine on the Council of Europe. And I think that's a pattern of how arguments are used to defend your wrong position. And one more thing. So we hear that, well, we're going to be in charge. First of all, if even 150 deputies were to exercise their powers, the Parliament is working. Because at the time of Parliament's registration there should be two-thirds of the deputies. And there's 450 of them. And now, please, all the other procedural points, this is already a fixation of Parliament's ability to work, which is -- I need 226 votes. Today we have 262, 263 deputies. I think in a few days there will be two hundred and seventy - five more. Because it's disgusting, obviously, for people who walk their tails after individuals who think they're leaders. But notice, they have made a commitment, and the wages are paid in front of everyone. One and a half days is just like the last month of April. Today, 84 out of 125 beats and 51 out of 80 of our Ukrainians were paid. So I have a question, so you're writing statements about whether you're in charge or you're in charge of your duties, and you're out of line. I'd like us to pay attention to that. And in the end, I think that at least those who go to pay won't be able to impose their powers. They are well aware of the need to work, and they are not allowed to work today. Well, this is, you know, the level of democracy in certain factions. I'd like you to think about all of these details when we're talking to people when we talk to them about the essence of what's going on in Ukraine today. That's why we have to do our job. There's a legislative plan. Next week we're going to work on the same schedule that was set last week, and we have a determination on this. And I am convinced that we will receive answers and legal answers, all legal answers, in order to continue the effective work of Parliament. And it will be effective in contrast with the affairs that today impose on individual politicians and people who have probably not yet come to terms with what is happening today in Ukraine. It's just a pure struggle for power. And as one of the leading politicians in Brussels in the European Parliament put it, it is a matter of subjective causes of conflict expressed by the desire to gain personal power. And there's no social interest here, the interests of the state -- that's all, I'm sorry, a political crack, which you don't need to pay attention to, you need to do your job calmly, carefully. I'm sure we'll stick to this line. Therefore, the issue envisaged in the work plan is now under consideration: the preliminary report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the effectiveness of the operation of special economic zones in Ukraine's priority development area. Reported to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Dr. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u20	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with the Supreme Council Order of 21 December 2006, 513 on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the effectiveness of special economic zones and areas of priority development in Ukraine, an appropriate interim commission of inquiry was established. The aim of the commission is to verify the effectiveness of special economic zones and priority development areas in Ukraine. The composition of the commission was formed on a proportional basis. The commission's head, as appropriate, is the representative of the Party of the Regions, and the deputy head of the commission is the representative of BUTU. And on an appropriate quota, representatives of all the factions of Parliament went there. Given that the practice of operating special economic zones and areas of priority development in Ukraine had mixed assessments by political circles, law enforcement officials and business representatives, decisions were taken to analyse advantages and disadvantages, to invite analytical materials on the practice of operating a special regime of investment in the CEZ and TPR in the Ministry of Economics, the State Tax Administration, the State Customs Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the State District Administration, the relevant scientific institutions. [[Next - SEZ]] [[Next – TDP]] The members of the commission were invited to make proposals to improve the special functioning regime in the SEE and the TPR. It was decided to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to temporarily suspend any draft legislation on special economic zones and TPR for the period of closure of the commission. The commission received the relevant materials. At the next meeting of the commission, representatives of the Ministry of Economics were heard. Prior to the adoption of the Ukraine Act of 25 March 2005 amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2005 and some other Ukrainian legislative acts, which abolished the tax benefits and special customs regime for operators of SEZ and TPR in special areas, 742 projects were approved on 31 March 2005, with a cost of 7.6 billion. US$ 2.5 billion, of which foreign investment is $2.5 billion. United States dollars. At the same time, as a result of the changes in legislation during 2005 and 2006, the administrations of CEZ and TPR cancelled 299 investment projects, respectively in 2005 221 and in 2006-78 projects. So, since the beginning of the special areas as of 01.01.2007, 449 investment projects have been approved in the 54th of the 72nd TPR and 10th of the 11th CEZ. The information on investment participation, the volume of product implementation and the number of jobs created and saved in the CEZ and TPR since the beginning of the function in the cut of years is given in the relevant materials that are distributed to the National Deputies, i.e. I will not be now. There's this rich tabloid material, and I'm not going to try to recreate it. During 2005 and 2006, 16 special - area operators submitted external applications to the court, 12 of whom were dismissed in connection with the abolition of taxes and a special customs regime by eight external requests, three of which were rejected, one was reviewed, and four entities were cancelled in connection with the cancellation of the administration of special areas of contracts, contracts for the implementation of investment projects. Accordingly, three petitions — external requirements — were met, one appeal at the hearing. According to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, eight criminal cases and five lawsuits were filed during the period 2006-2007, according to the results of the investigations carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the CEZ and TPR. During the interim report of the interim commission of inquiry, it is possible to draw the following general conclusions: the main factor that has significantly affected the functioning of the CEZ and the TPR was the repeal of the State Budget 2005 Act and some other legislative acts of special tax benefits for entities implementing investment projects in special areas. This has led to improvements in the import structure by reducing the volume of meat, while at the same time slowing down the development of special areas and their impact on the socio-economic situation of the locations, i.e. decreased production, decreased employment. Individual SEZ and TPR entities appealed to the court for tax relief. The results of the analysis of the activities of CEZ and TPR show that the aid mechanism did not provide the aid to the subject of the special areas that operated before the adoption of the law. That is, the 2005 Budget Act did not ensure the development of most areas according to the purpose set by the laws on their creation. The use of a special regime of investment as a tool for socio-economic development of depressive areas was not effective. Yes, during the introduction of the special investment regime, no project was launched for the 14 TPRs of 72 and the special economic zone of Interport Covel. Export targeting of investment projects is not ensured. More than 70 percent of the production is made in the internal market, and at the same time it is not provided. foreign investment in investment at the expense of internal sources. The budgetary efficiency of projects remains low. In addition, the tax treatment of SEZ and TPR entities operating until March 31, 2005, was not in line with certain WTO requirements. Thus, most of the problems in the development of special areas are in the area of improving legislation. It should be noted that the content of the materials provided to the commission and the amount of information it contains during the interim report does not allow for a full analysis of the effectiveness of special economic zones and areas of priority development. Taking into account the stated and social political significance, it is appropriate for the commission to focus on the analysis of such issues in its future work. This is how much the concept of the implementation of the CEZ and TPR regime exists in Ukraine contributes to the structural reconstruction of the region's economies and their development on an innovative basis, with maximum use of the internal economic potential, the ability of each CEZ and TPR to transform them into centres for the introduction of new technologies that meet world standards, or the creation of export-oriented complexes that combine elements in international transport corridors, the relevance of the continued existence of each CEZ and TPR, the development of proposals for specific mechanisms for the functioning of CEZ and TPR in the future, allowing for the use of all national economic reserves and the avoidance of negative effects. A draft ruling on the interim report of the interim commission of inquiry has been handed down to the National Deputies. I'm asking you to confirm it. And I would also like to ask that, for clear reasons, in fact, in April, the volume of the commission's work, that we are now unable to carry out a mission and conduct an analysis of the special economic zones to which we are going, we ask that we continue the work of the special interim commission of inquiry in order to hear the final report, not until the end of June, as anticipated earlier, but by the end of October. So again, given the holiday season and what we are now having some inconvenience with the commission's activities. This is what's proposed at the intermediate report stage. Thank you for your attention. I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u21	Thank you, please. This is the previous report. When it is finished, we will ask questions. Dear colleagues, you have a draft Decree number 3469: information from the Temporary Investigation Commission. Take note of the information and continue the work of the Interim Commission until October 31, 2007. Please vote. [[10:58:21]] For 243 It's been decided. The draft Food Banks Act, registration number 2209, is under consideration. A report by the Redfoot Sergey Vasilovich. Prepare the Dry One from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u22	Sergey Redfoot, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today you are asked to consider Law 2209, about food banks. What causes the need to adopt this law? You and I have sad statistics. Nearly 14 million people in Ukraine are outside the poverty line. There is no war, and a third of the population is starving. First of all, they're veterans, pensioners, disabled people, and unfortunately, children are our future. At the same time, huge supermarkets are breaking from a variety of foods. This is one of the paradoxes of the wild capitalism that we live in. There are many recipes that have been invented by mankind because of such injustice. By the way, these recipes are very well-known, and so are the people in this room. One of them, for today, we offer you. Everyone knows that food has one problem, it's corrupting. The creation of a cumulative system that incorporates goods of critical proportions of the last implementation, with subsequent transmission to the public organizations for then free, giving to those people who need it today. For more than forty years, there has been a system of so - called food banks. But these are not banks, like we generally say, that's not a financial system. This is, once again, a system of food accumulation, a system of accumulation of medicines that go to the limits of implementation to not destroy, but to pass it on to those who need it, who actually created it. For example, in the same America today there are 380. In 22 years, more than 200 banks have been created in Europe, united in the European Federation of Food Banks. We have had a similar system in Ukraine for almost seven years, and it is estimated that more than a thousand tons of food has been passed on to people. In Ukraine today, thousands of charities that work without system can be counted, and many of them, unfortunately, have serious issues both in the public and in law enforcement agencies. The proposed bill will lead to order in these matters. All the Supreme Council committees that considered the bill supported it. And for today, we invite you in the hall to consider and adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u23	Thank you. Are there any questions? You don't? Sit down, Sergey Vasilovich. From the committee is the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, national MPs! As long as there are strange processes related to the writings of some of our colleagues, the President’s Secretariat, some for sports, some for animal protection. We need to work on drafting legislation that will provide real meaning to the strategy of overcoming poverty. I remind you that on August 15, 2001, this strategy for poverty eradication was introduced by President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine, and after that, the government had already developed a comprehensive programme to implement the poverty eradication strategy, one of which was to create a network of charities. According to European Union standards, a person with less than two living minimum incomes is considered poor. Two. In Ukraine, this ratio is 0.8. So in order to somehow rehabilitate poverty in order to prevent the degradation of our people's genetics, we certainly need to maintain a similar kind of legislation. Here one of the authors, I would like to remind you that among the authors of this bill, apart from Sergey of Czervonopyski – Klimec, Gerasimov, Jemilov, Leukko Lukyanenko, spoke of the positive reactions of the professional committees. However, there are a number of observations that we must make as a serious political force, considering that if we adopt drafts without redrafting what is in the notes, especially the government that is going to implement this bill, this bill will not really work. We don't need populism, we don't need demagogies. We have to adopt a bill that would work for our people to make such a disgraceful phenomenon as poverty in the center of Europe finally overcome. Because our Ukrainian people, having such black people, with such lands and such nadras, certainly deserve a better life if this better life were not hindered by political psychopaths who today run through Kiev and lead their own people as a goat on a rope. The comments are serious. The government suggests that the name “banks” be clarified. The thing is, we have a basic bill that applies to financial institutions. Yes, there are in America, and in Europe there are the names of such “banks”. So we have to agree in the end with government structures, what is the name we have to operate on in our daily lives and in our work. There is another observation that the food bank could be provided with resources and medicines from the state reserve, then in this bill we should amend the law on the State Reserve. It's not done. If this is not done, this article of this law will also work, because revenue from the national material reserve has a specific purpose and specific direction of implementation with a view to stabilizing the economy in the event of temporary disruptions in supply terms, in order to lower the price, including market intervention, so as not to allow for a galloping increase in food and medicine prices. In addition, there is another serious remark, and it must be further worked out by the authors. The idea is to give food banks adequate property rights funds. It's no longer a profitable organization, it's an organization that makes money that contradicts the very ideology of this law. In addition, a large number of articles duplicate existing legislation, such as the Civil Code and the Code of Masters of Ukraine, which we have worked with you for a long time in the fourth convocation. Well, above all, there is a violation of what we've been saying over and over again, 86 parts, article of the Rules, part two of the Budget Code article, the introduction of bills whose implementation is intended to make the necessary changes to the budget that we have already approved in this session. So I'm making a proposal, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, after final review of the bills, is proposing not to reject the bill. We also need this bill, but we need it to be sent to the Ukrainian people's deputies, the authors of the drafts, so that here, in this sessional room, a normal act will be adopted, working for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u25	Thank you. Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Please log in from the factions. From the deputies, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, Yes, please, nine minutes, Chechet's Mikhail. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u26	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In fact, we are looking at a social bill today, an important bill. The project is intended at the legislative level to define the legal status of food banks as a specific type of non-profit organization, whose activities consist primarily of food, food, and medicine for the poorest population. In support of the need to develop a project, I believe that individual positions of the project should be harmonized with the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons, subject to entrepreneurial activity, including the registration of all legal persons. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial authorities register or legalize the associations of citizens, charities, other institutions and organizations defined by law, and issue a certificate of state registration issued by the State Registerer in the relevant executive committee of the city council of district importance or in the district, district, district, city of Kiev and Sevastopol of the State Administration at the location of the legal person. I fully agree, and to shorten the time, with the remarks made by national deputy Jaroslav Suhi. And that's why, in my opinion, there really is, as they say, a legislative niche. And this legislative niche needs to be filled in with this bill. But the bill must be worked out in such a way that it really benefits both the state and the general population. So I support the opinion of the committee, and I propose to vote in favour of sending this bill for further work. And then, it's said, the amended version of the bill is going to be adopted next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u28	Dear colleagues. National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. It is well known that this bill has already been considered by the Supreme Council for two previous calls, but has not been adopted for certain reasons. The reasons for this vary from hand to hand, and there were observations in principle, and so on. Now we have come to the next consideration of the matter. And since I'm speaking on behalf of both the faction and once again from the Committee on Social Policy and Work, and our committee in considering this bill is the main one, I fully support the arguments that Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi has already made in his speech. Indeed, there are many observations that do not allow today to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, because there are a number of conceptual observations, doubts as to whether it is appropriate to adopt such a concept of law. But should we today be determined in principle whether we need such a law or not? I think he must be accepted without delay. Because, unfortunately, we have too many beggars and bums in Ukraine. That's why it's necessary. But there is some reason to doubt that the creation of food banks in the version proposed by the authors can. The drafters of the bill may lead to a number of abuses. So we have to look again and again at this bill, take into account all the observations and the Ministry of Finance and other government institutions, so that for, let's say, two weeks we come back to this bill because, in principle, we need it. This stage of the wild or even unknown kind of capitalism that we are in right now requires us to react and use, including those that may not be entirely acceptable to hearing or other perceptions of laws such as the Food Banks Act. So I support, more faithfully, I repeat, and I emphasize that our faction will vote in favour of sending him to work, but we have already declared that we have adopted this law and we intend to finally adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u30	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues. You know, I think you've pointed out that out of the five people, the five people's deputies who came to this rostrum right now, four are representatives of the social committees. And it's not random, because it's an important social problem. I want to say that this problem with the huge beard, because this bill was introduced in the previous summons, and then the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, which I am leading today, was then a professional committee on this document. I've seen this document change in a positive way. The first version of this document had about 6-7 pages of ministerial comments and intelligence, and really needed work. Today, the document is far more perfect, much more suited to the requirements of the Rules and to the needs of time. I want to say that this document is in time. This document is needed because, if you want, one of the tools for overcoming poverty, it is a solution that is very relevant and necessary in Ukraine today. You know, you can argue how much this bill is taking in the direction of overcoming poverty in Ukraine. To someone it may seem very small, someone sufficient, someone overachievers and so forth, and so forth, but hardly anyone will argue that this is a step in the right direction, in the direction of solving an important social problem. So what I would like to say is that the Communist faction is actually ready to support this document today and in the first reading, because we supported it in the previous way, but because the opinion of the Communist faction today on the drafting of this document has come to light, we will not deny it, but even in the decision to do the work, I think we should ask the authors to speed up the process of developing this document and submitting it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, once again: the document is absolutely necessary, the document is absolutely necessary. And maybe the last thing I'd like to say about this document. You know, I can argue how perfect, how wide, I repeat, this is a year in the right direction, but I am absolutely convinced that this document is negative, this project does not contain any, so as the head of the committee, as the representative of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, in support of the idea of adopting this law, I ask the authors once again to speed it up and submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. The discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm talking to the authors. Sergey Vasilovich, do we have to work immediately? Do you mind? Okay. I then, with your permission and with the consent of the author of the bill, make a proposal to the committee to send the draft Food Banks Act to the authors of the bill. Please vote. [[11:18:04]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. And really, let's go to the authors of the bill with a proposal, asking them to accelerate its development in the key that is noted both by the Cabinet of Ministers, and by the Scientific and Scientific Administration that we have the opportunity to look at it. We need to get into the agenda and make a decision, there are three draft regulations related to the next anniversary of our disaster -- a disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, so I would like to vote on the inclusion and consideration of the issue of number 3396-1 and of the three draft regulations. Please vote. [[11:19:05]] For 242 The question is included. Let's get to it. Once again, all three draft decisions on one topic and a report from all three will be made by the head of the committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Danilin Mikola Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u32	Danilin Nikolai Alekseevich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, will be 21 days from the day of the serious and terrible tragedy that Ukraine faces today more than one. Not only Ukraine, but also those who stood up for almost all of Europe 21 years ago, eliminating a terrible technological accident. Despite the processes that are still taking place today, despite the political passions that are taking place today, I appeal to those who listen to us, to those who have participated in the extermination, to those who have suffered the Chernobyl disaster. I wish to emphasize that even in such a situation, the Supreme Council is making every effort to ensure social protection, improve health standards and treat those who have fallen prey to this terrible tragedy. I mean, this is where Adam Ivanovich said that this is practically not an alternative. The point is that the final decision is 3396-d as if the combined two decrees were the first ones, including me as co-author. These decrees are aimed at implementing the points that are most worrying the Chernobyl population most today. Regrettably, to date, all international projects that were and started at the Chernobyl station have not been implemented since its closure. Today, it is very difficult and difficult to negotiate the resumption and commencement of a new safe deposit over the facility. I would like to emphasize that, with the participation of the international financial resources that have been provided, and with the participation of our domestic assembly organizations: South-green energy installation and Russia's Atomrostra, it has been possible to stabilize the shelter facility by the end of last year, to stabilize the roof itself, to move the Mamont beams into new metal structures, which will ensure the stable protection and stability of the shelter facility for about 10 to 15 years, enabling us to prepare, organize, prepare and maintain a new phase in the liquidation and closure of Chernobyl. To date, Ukraine has allocated billions of funds from the budget to close the station to ensure the nuclear safety of this serious technology facility. These two projects have been discussed on our Committee on Environmental, Environmental and Disaster Management. And in accordance with article 105 of the Rules, it was decided that two of these projects should be combined in one way: the best and most necessary for people in the area of treatment, pension insurance, housing for people affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the issues of the town of Slavotica, which will mark its 20th anniversary this year. The problems of those who are 20 years old, 20 to 30 years old, are approaching retirement age. The problem of pensioning these people. They're getting up first. I want to say that, according to the latest data, in the medical examination, all the people who have suffered go through the past year, the number of healthy people has decreased by 2%. In fact, the situation is that these people today require better quality medical treatment, better sanitation. And in this situation, the draft regulation that will be proposed to you today, which is in your hands and which includes all these things. With regard to the town of Slavutić, I would like to point out that, to date, as we proceed gradually towards the final closure of the station, we must also consider the issue of job security for the inhabitants. What's more, to date, we have high-class professionals. In order to ensure their work, it is necessary today to consider the draft that the scientific atomic reactor, which on the prospect of Victory, on the prospectus of Science, should be considered, I apologize. It is necessary to move there and create a new laboratory base for nuclear research, which is not currently available in Ukraine. This is, practically, the first need to create nuclear energy. Thus, we will save and be able to create up to 500 jobs there, which is very important for this city. Today it is also necessary to support the city socially, because it is where the Chernobyl nuclear station workers live and spend their time. I also wish to say that, to date, it is necessary to apply all directions and views of the Cabinet of Ministers, both in terms of parliamentary activities and in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to ensure the successful conclusion of negotiations with the donor assembly in May to finance the construction of a new secure confision, which will allow us, once again, to proceed to a more new and qualitative level of security of the Chernobyl station and to begin waste management work there. It is necessary to launch the Vector launch complex next year, where waste will be stored for a short storage period. It is also necessary to launch a liquid nuclear waste treatment plant. All of this, of course, requires funding, takes time for all of this. And this ruling is currently looking at a set of activities by the Cabinet of Ministers that need to be done. Provides for an increase in funding for the 2007 revision of the 2007 budget to “Increasing the cost of treatment, the survey”, including a number of finalities to technical problems that are not yet in place. I would like to say and stress that we propose to adopt this regulation as a whole, with one clarification, in paragraph 1. in the first paragraph of paragraph 10, in the operative part, replace the words “Vector's first line” with “Vector launch complex”. Comments were received from the Health Committee from all committees on the regulation. But I would like to say that all of these comments have already been taken into account in resolution 1756-4 of 04.06.2004, when there were parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council on the 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. And so, to some extent, they are already there. I'm addressing you. I appeal to a coalition of national unity. I would like to support this decision, vote in general, and thus provide assistance and social protection to all those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u33	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sign up. Six minutes. Please, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u34	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I realize that the problem is agonizing, and we need to deal with it. I'm speaking in a positive way. And I also realize that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant crash wasn't just done, based on the human factor alone, that the fourth block, it produced military plutonium, and there's a lot of problems. But the media, unfortunately, have had such a negative impact on the problem. The question is. Three more blocks are closed. These three blocks became more dangerous than when they were working, we got a whole complex. Are there any more effective measures to eliminate the entire complex?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u35	Well, I want to say that so far, the unloading of spent nuclear fuel from the first cluster has been completed and is now being unloaded from the third block. And I think that by the time the second block is concluded, somewhere in 2008, when its deadline has ended, the unloading of spent nuclear fuel will be completed. This will be another phase of decommissioning of the nuclear station. To date, we have to spend money on maintaining a secure environment, including the second unit and the third unit. Because without security systems, it's just not possible to operate the ventilation system. This phase will be completed when the nuclear fuel discharge from these blocks is completed. That's what the Chernobyl station employees are working on right now. They did quite well with the first block until the end, that is, last year, what was said. They're working on the third block now. I think I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u36	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u37	Please pass on the word of Bachtei.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u38	Aunt Bachchev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u39	. that the Health Committee supported the order. You must have the wrong news. Since the scale of the Chernobyl disaster has been known to doctors for 21 years. Today we see far-reaching consequences. It's also congenital vices, it's deformities that, physically, have children who actually lived in the area. Therefore, all actions on the part of the State to support the disaster, the eradication of the disaster, the Chernobyl accident, our committee has always supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u40	Well, I'm, I'm sorry. You must have misunderstood me. I said that your committee supported, you just had supplements and, as it were, four paragraphs of additions, and I mentioned that in the decree of 2004, these were already taken into account as supplements. And for your support, thank you very much. I think that in this direction, both our committee and your committee, we will work together with the executive branch in one direction in order to protect people as much as possible, including in the area of health. Treatment, sanatorium, sanatorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u41	Please, Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u42	Nikolai Alexandrovich, we have a really interesting situation. That is, the Chernobyl Committee, which includes the Ministry of Emergency Situations in principle, deals with the social problems that have arisen in the process of dealing with the resettlement accident. And their country may have compensated them. However, the Ministry of Papieva is doing so much because. Question. Is it not time for these social protection activities to be passed on to the professional ministry headed by Papiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Vladimir Konstantinovich, I want to say that there is one problem. The fact is that today, in general, public organizations, including Chernobyl, are still grouped around the Ministry of Emergency Situations. And to date, I understand that the ministry of Papiev is very classy. But as both technical, social and other matters of the Ministry of Emergency Situations are now coming to an end. It seems to me that this ministry, with its entire structure under it, is working more successfully. And I want to say that we were on an interdepartmental commission yesterday, which made a number of decisions, again concerning the same Chernobyl station. It is mainly where coordination is taking place through the Ministry of Emergency Situations. In my opinion, today might be the right thing to do. We will continue to consider how this will develop in the future. Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up for factions. Please, who else wants the MPs? We need to record. Well, bad press means. Who else is the record? Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u45	Respected colleagues, the Chernobyl situation, it is as if it is characterized by the ability of the State to cope with technological catastrophes. Let me remind you, in 1995, the Ottawa Memorandum was adopted, which decided that by the time the atomic station was closed, the West would have built the infrastructure for the closure of the nuclear station for its money. In 2000, we closed the pumped nuclear station, which is now in 2007. We have fulfilled our obligations, but the closure infrastructure of the nuclear station has not been implemented. And over the past seven years, we've paid more than 2 billion grevens for the Chernobyl station, that's a lot of money for our country. We must therefore instruct the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to address this issue, which has enabled all diplomats to deal with this problem in order for the Eight to fulfil their obligations. Second. Chernobyl issues are entering a phase where radioactive substances have to be re-operated with radioactive wastes in the radioactive territory. And this will work for our people. Therefore, it is essential that the medical, biological security of our people, which will be extracted there so that there will be no conditions for conversion, so that the problems mentioned by Tatyana Bahechev do not arise, they are, first and foremost, subordinated to the Ministry of Health and all the social ministries of our State. Next. Management. Life goes on, life develops. By the year 12, five years later, we are asking the question at all about decommissioning existing nuclear stations that had no accidents. So we need to think about how we are going to organize management and decommissioning at all. Minchaes will continue to do so, or it will be a special body that will deal with the nuclear stations that have not been destroyed. All of this was discussed yesterday on the interdepartmental commission. There is much to be said about this, but there is another reason in the canoe of the Chernobyl disaster to address all these issues so that we do not extend those injuries to the new practice that our State will have. In general, the decree must be supported; it is needed by our people, the Chernobyl people, the liquidators and the displaced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Lechchenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. No, I can't see. Please, Matthew Sergey. Bondarchuku. Please, Bondarchuk. Get ready for Kovalevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. I would like to point out that the very fact that today's decision on this issue is a positive one. But I would like this to be the last time we make decisions as a retaliatory fact before the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Because we would like to deal with these issues, not from one year to the next, but every week, every month, because unfortunately, these problems do not work out properly, but sometimes they get worse. In Winnitzina, seven areas of the 27 suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. There are 108,000 inhabitants of polluted areas. The population, of them 40,000. Children, $24,000. The children of this 40,000. They're in the dispensary. Therefore, I would consider it necessary to strengthen the part of our efforts and the health plan to increase funding, especially for specialized dispensers of radiation protection. Well, on Winnitz, for example, this dispenser doesn't have an X-ray, and we've been making fruitless correspondence with the Ministry for several years now, with the government, and so on, to actually allocate targeted funds to buy this X-ray machine, but it's not solved. I've recently asked the Cabinet about the allocation of funds for the establishment of a specialized office in a children's district hospital that deals with these very issues, but again this bureaucratic train lasts longer than it needs to be. The second question is improving the support of liquidators. The third is the conclusion of the settlement of the population of the displaced. We also have these population points on Winnitzkin, but until now, once again, we can't solve the question of the fate of that council where people are working, who have moved from Zitomirsk and built a village. Between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Agriculture, I don't think five or six years can solve the issue of land transfer, property, etc. And the last. I would like to support the point I have made in my question to my colleague Bronnikov. We have to do it now, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it, and we have to do it now, and we have to do it, and we have to do it, and we have to do it, and we have to do it, and we have to do it, and we have to do it, and we have to do it, and we have to do it, in the end, and we have the Ministry of Social Protection and Labour and So finally, you have to make a clear distinction between what ministry and what questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u48	Yes, Kovalevska Julia, please. I'm going to get Zybenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u49	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, draft Supreme Council Regulation No. 3396/d contains a set of measures to address issues directly related to the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster. First of all, the social orientation of the bill must be noted, but considerable attention has been given to environmental security issues in Ukraine. Yes, in paragraph 3 of the draft decree, it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should develop and review the National Programme for Integrated Socio-Economic Development of Radioactive Pollution Areas. The draft regulation foresees the possibility of increasing expenditure on budget programmes to support environmentally sound conditions in areas of exclusion and unconditionally mandatory eviction, to support the safe state of the energy grids and the “Hiddenness” object and so on. Much attention has been paid to reviewing the ranges of radiation pollution and restoring normal activity in many locations. Among the current problems are the introduction of integrated socio-economic development programmes for areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident. What is essential in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft regulation is that it is planned to put into operation in 2008 the launch complex of the first line of the Vector complex, the construction in the zone of alienation of shelters and physical barriers of protection necessary for the localization of radioactive waste. Thus, the aim of the project is to provide specific recommendations from the legislative authority of the Ukrainian government on a comprehensive solution to the problems of tackling the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, including in the area of environmental protection. In the event of the adoption of the draft decision, there will be a real basis for further socio-economic development of the state. I'm asking you to support draft regulation 3396-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u50	Thank you, Julia. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, we are discussing today a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been drafted by a profile committee. The committee tried to unify the strengths of the two draft decrees that had been made. But, at the same time, I realize that the committee's efforts were aimed at making not as beautiful a document as making it real. You can make any beautiful document, looking at which you want to cry from happiness, but it will contain one small flaw: it will be unrealistic. So it is very important for us to balance the maximum support of this category of citizens, on the one hand, and on the other hand to make this document as real as possible. The second thing I wanted to say. Unfortunately, I am saddened to report today that, unfortunately, there is no head of the committee of profile in the Supreme Council's deliberations on this extremely important draft Supreme Council ruling. This is the whole truth about hurting these people for the fate of the Chernobylites, because of the fate of those who have lost their health in this regard. As head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, I would like to draw special attention to a number of positions in the draft decree that contain the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In particular, the first and second tasks entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are to make proposals to address the pension situation of this category of Ukrainian citizens. Indeed, today this problem is extremely acute, extremely painful. And in this regard, we need to make decisions about how to solve it. I would like to support the positions of the seventh and eighth draft decisions relating to the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers when changes are made to Ukraine's government budget for 2007 to increase funding for Chernobyl programmes. Indeed, an extremely important position, an extremely important matter to be decided upon. And in the end, my dear fellows, I think we have to accept today the document that was submitted to the profile committee, based on the principle that it's better to have a bruise in our hands than a crane in the sky. Because there are a number of positions here that are aimed at supporting and protecting the Chernobyl population that people are waiting for today, which are extremely important today. The Communist faction will vote in favour of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Sadly, it is on April that we are forced to return to similar regulations and accept them each year. So I am completely in solidarity with those who say that we must not make annual decisions, and those who have to do the basic law, the law that we have, must do it clearly. And our task, Parliament, is to exercise parliamentary control over the implementation of this law. The profile committee proposes three draft regulations, which are essentially not alternatives, and they have worked out, worked out, and eventually a single bill is finalized, namely, the 3396-d decree. That's why I'm putting the bill first on the proposal of a profile committee and a reporter: the adoption of an overall decree on the state and prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, according to Bill 3396-d. Please vote. [[11:50:25]] For the 250. Order accepted, thank you. So let's move on to the chapter: by a reduced procedure, we have to make a decision. Please vote. [[11:50:51]] For 239. Decision taken. And, dear fellows, let's consult: are we working on a break or not? No breaks. Okay, thanks. A draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation is under consideration to order the possibility of dissuasive application of the rules. Drafting number for bill 2660. The reporter is Jidenko Igor Grigorovich. He's ignoring it. Deputy Head of Legal Policy Committee Zvarz Igor Teodorovitch, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on March 21, this year, the Committee of Legal Policy considered Protocol No. 24 of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to Order the Possibility of Disposing of Standards, Registration No. 2660 of February 8, introduced by the Ukrainian People’s Deputies Gidenk and Odarchenk. The aim of the bill is to raise the level of compliance by the parties with civil law in the contract and propose to amend the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Code of Merchandise Shipping. In the opinion of the Committee, the adoption of the bill would help to reduce the number of cases of compliance by the parties with civil law in the contract and facilitate the administration of justice by the courts, as it is envisaged that the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Code of Merchandise Navigation may be subject to dissuasive application. As a result, an increase in the level of legality with Ukraine is projected in the conclusion of civil law agreements. The main scientific and expert management, in their conclusions of March 19th this year, expressed their support for sending a draft with the results of the first reading to the Main Committee for the preparation of the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The implementation of the bill will not result in additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis, as well as that it should be delegated to the Committee to work on it, and that it should be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council on a second reading. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If you are willing to speak, please – two “for”, two “against”. Green, red buttons. Chechtov Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The project proposes that part three of article six of the Ukrainian Civil Code be reprinted in order to clarify the ratio of acts of civil law to the treaty. Similar changes are made to article 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Merchandise Shipping. It is envisaged that a treaty created may derogate from the provisions of civil law and regulate its relations to its own discretion if these acts specifically state this. If the proposal is right-hand enough, its introduction will narrow down the party's ability to establish the essential terms of the contract. In turn, from the point of view of judicial practice, the existing regulation makes the practice of law enforcement and civil law cases more complicated in the courts, since it requires ambiguity of the parties to a treaty of civil law. I propose that this serious bill be sent for further processing and after further consideration in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u56	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Question completed. There was a proposal for a profile committee and a proposal from the speakers. In that order, I put it to a vote. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the first reading of draft Law No. 2660 amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:26]] For two. Not accepted. There is a motion for a bill to be submitted to the authors. Please vote. [[11:55:49]] For 239. A decision has been made. The bill is aimed at further development. A draft law on the implementation of the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 2824, is under consideration. [[on the adoption of an inheritance]] Rapporteur of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Budgerak Alexander Aleksandrovich Communicator Igor Teodorovich from the committee, please. Deputy Head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill set out at its meeting on March 21, this year. it is aimed at amending article 1268 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which requires the need to remedy existing shortcomings in the legal regulation of the procedure for the adoption of an inheritance. The Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Code in accordance with article 109, paragraph three, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, following the first reading of the bill to direct its subject to the legislative initiative for further work. [[on the adoption of an inheritance]] We also considered that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority had suggested that this bill should be rejected. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? Green, red. Matvienkov, please, from the site microphone. To prepare the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u59	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, this bill would seem to be some way of actually regulating those points that have not been resolved by law today, but nevertheless, this bill mainly concerns the category of people to whom we should treat with special care and particular care, mostly veterans, those people who have been left alone today, those people who are forced to solve the problem, so to speak, further their own, let us say, as a matter of fact, living. And it's connected to the legacy of this category of people, so to speak. Therefore, in order not to use this category of people, and to prevent them from being, so to speak, hostages of the situation where they are primarily interested in their homes, their homes, or their areas, we have decided that the bill cannot be adopted. This bill needs to be finalized in order to write down these restrictive, restrictive measures so that we do not impose, let us say, such a category of population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u60	Thank you. Voropeyev, please, microphone out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u61	I also support the Committee's proposal to send this bill to be finalized for such reasons. Reason one. The proposals reflected in the bill, the amendments to article twelve-sixty-eight, contradict and overlap with another article of the Ukrainian Civil Code of twelve-seventy. This time. Secondly, if we vote in favour of the bill and make such an amendment to the Ukrainian Civil Code, then we will deprive all other heirs who may be without heirs of the first order of business of their ability to manage and inherit those assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u62	Thank you. Question completed. If I had understood the suggestions and comments of people who knew what they were talking about, it would probably be wise to reject the bill rather than to send it for further work. Because we're working on nothing. What is there to work on? Either write this article, which makes the bill worse, or not write it. And the law will remain better. This may be a wiser offer than to reject them. I'll put in order for them to come. The Special Committee proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft law for work on the number twenty - eight four. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:39]] Z-11. The proposal to reject the bill. Please vote. [[12:01:00]] For 247 The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is under consideration. [[on administrative arrest]] Bill number 2482. Zabzaluk, author of the initiative, Roman Omelyanovich. A member of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Malishev Vladimir Stepanovic will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of 6 November of that year, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Zabzaluk, proposes that article 37 of the Code of Administrative Offences, article 32, and chapter 32 be deleted. At the same time, make adjustments to articles 15, 24, 44, and 50. That is, in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, to cancel a position on the use of such administrative sequestration as administrative arrest. The author explains this because the current Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences does not provide for persons who are subject to administrative arrests for the necessary guarantees of their legitimate rights. This is a gross violation guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine of individual rights and freedoms. Having examined the bill, the committee agrees with the author's arguments, while acknowledging that the repeal of the administrative arrest regulations does not decide whether or not to impose appropriate appropriate penalties. In the Committee’s view, it would be more appropriate to make appropriate changes to the Admincodex by providing for those subject to administrative arrest the necessary guarantees to respect their legal rights to an effective defence and to challenge a court’s decision. On the basis of the committee’s presentation, he decided to recommend that the Supreme Council return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u64	Thank you, Volodymyr Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. If you want to participate in the discussion, green, red buttons, please. Kuzbmenko Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u65	Thank you. Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party. The position of the author of the bill was frankly misunderstood. He believes that the unforeseeable guarantees of those who have such punishment are not available and therefore suggests that the punishment be eliminated. This kind of practice reminds me: let's rule out drug abuse from the Criminal Code, and then there will be no drug addicts in state statistics. You can't do that. If there are no guarantees, then these guarantees must be written out in law, but not overturned, especially since it exists in many states of the world and is considered perfectly normal. And finally, just to take off the tension a little bit. Practically 15 days is already a part of the national folklore and there is no need to deprive the people of that part. That's why I think the bill should, at least, get the author back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Question completed. There is one suggestion to send a bill for further work. I am voting on the proposal to refer the Amendment Act to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Administrative Arrest, Bill No. 2482 on the drafting of the legislative initiative. Please vote. [[12:05:45]] For 246 The decision is made, and the law is meant to be redrafted. Yes, dear colleagues, everything we had in the legislative plan today, we did. Are we going to have a different one? We will. Then I would like to write down who wants to participate in the “Variable”. Yes, there is enough for those who wish. So please, Mironenko. Jaroslav Suchy to prepare. Kovalevska? Please. Yes, one hour, as usual, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio audiences, TV sets, and representatives of the media! Julia Kovalevska, faction of the region. I want to start with a confession today: I have stopped loving the circus ever since it moved from the plane of art to the political plane. In my mind, the clowns should be good and cheerful, but the red clowns of politics, full of malice and hostility, are now quite skillfully equilibrating over the chasm that they themselves have experienced. By twisting and moving facts, these political arena masters manipulate people's consciousness, and they read the existing Constitution between terms, seeing what has never been written, that is, they freely own the Basic Law of the State. How long will this political mess continue? How long until his opponent receives the desired full Sunday authority? The National Unity Coalition, which is the majority of the Supreme Council, has repeatedly stated its willingness to implement any decision of the Constitutional Court to bring a solution to the conflict between individual institutions of power to the constitutional plane, to ensure the rule of law, as provided for in article 8 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. Finally, to create a precedent for a civilized solution to contradictions that may arise between branches and institutions of power, as adopted in civilized democratic societies. According to Julia Timoshenko, who declared to all Ukraine that the Constitutional Court’s decision would mean nothing to her, the apiori rejected the possibility of resolving the conflict in the legal plane. For the sake of achieving Lady Yu’s goal with her imagination, she invents all new and new scenarios. script designs, and a team of red circuses is putting them into practice. What is the value of a farce in the formation of parliamentary powers? Have they considered opposition deputies to take such a step that they first show disrespect for their constituents? Probably not, for according to one of the members of the BUT, the decision was not adopted in a collegiate way, but rather a so - called, creative group of five. They were the ones who made decisions for all the factions. So a lot of the deputies from BUT, when they wrote statements of mandates, they didn't realize what they did. First of all, there is a lack of knowledge of the parliamentary procedure itself. Parliament cannot go alone, only by a parliamentary decision, all the more so. According to article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which regulates the formation of the powers of the Supreme Council deputies, the decision on the term.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u68	Please, Herman will give you another three minutes. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u69	The decision to terminate parliamentary powers on a permanent basis in the event that he makes this personal application is taken solely by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And you can't ignore that. And the transmission of the originals to the President of Ukraine, not to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is another focus of the political apherists from BUTU. In order to prevent the MP’s hull from being filled, the opposition took a bold step in canceling the election lists in the CBC. I don’t think that this trick is good enough either, since there is simply no quorum due to the disease of some members in the Centers. And she's definitely not going to be able to help BUIT in his desire to leave the Council. In fact, knowingly or unknowingly, the faction's members have agreed on a plan of coup d'état which consists of the illegal dissolution of Parliament, the illegal dismissal of the government and the holding of elections in such a time that it is not possible to conduct them honestly and transparently. In fact, the opposition no longer hides its efforts today to take the President of Ukraine as political hostages. By knowingly making his political positions extremely fragile, he pushes Victor Yushchenk into more violent action to cover himself as a living shield, making him guilty of the deterioration of the country’s situation. So, gentlemen, political blackmail fraud is July democracy. I hope Victor Andriyovich has enough political wisdom, and it's just common sense not to act on it. I'll be honest: I'm sorry to hear about the members of the state, because after having arranged a circus with so-called powers, they gave themselves a bear service. Without working in Parliament, they lose the last major influence on the situation and actually turn the opposition's activities back into very uncomfortable and questionable work on public grounds. What's more, good work, gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u70	Thank you. We'll assume that Julia Sergiyevna sent a message to Julia Volodymyrni. Please, the Dry One passes the word to Samuel. Yuri Pavlovich, please. Get ready, Buttercup. I can't see him. Belash next will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters! The National Security and Defence Committee is constantly monitoring developments in policies to prevent their development in a forceful manner. The position of law enforcement officials, force agencies, is very important here. This position of the Acting Chairman of the Security Service, Mr. Nattvajchenko, is surprising. You've all witnessed reports in the media about attempts to protect the central selection commission, interference with the trials that have taken place around the Pecher Court, which I've reported from this rostrum. On 16 April, a press conference was followed at which he presented a compromise on the Constitutional Court judge. As a result, the Public Prosecutor's Office initiates criminal proceedings on the basis of the offence provided for in article 376 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which interferes with the judicial system. All of this has given us reason to invite Mr. Nattweichenko to a meeting of our committee to listen to his motives in carrying out such actions. In addition, there is a specific document where, under the signature of the Deputy Chairman of the SBA-Sklara Service, a request was made to the Central Electoral Commission on 8/3/3-8420 dated 12 April to issue permanent passes to a number of staff members of the SSS to pass, to be present at any time in the Central Electoral Commission. The question is, Why is this necessary? What should the SSS staff do on the electoral commission? I appreciate that, personally, how to influence members of the CLTC, so from the point of view of fear of someone, given the high authority of the service that has yet to be maintained. Therefore, on all these matters, I visited Mr. Lätweichenko along with the members of our committee and invited him to the meeting on 18 April. He gave me written consent. However, 19 numbers, then a beating, yesterday followed by a letter. This is what he refers to the President's Decree of 2 April 2007, which states that the Supreme Council, as well as the committees, are out of law and therefore refuse to attend meetings. I believe that what we have said, an attempt to involve ourselves in these political divisions, has already become a phenomenon today, distinguished deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u72	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u73	I therefore believe that the Security Service has already been drawn into this dangerous political opposition, which constitutes a grave violation of the Security Service Act and the Operational Search Act and other laws governing the work of the Special Services. Therefore, Sir Alexander Ivanovich, we have prepared a request from the Committee to hear from Mr. 1997waychenk at the forthcoming meeting of the Supreme Council requiring an explanation of his actions. If he does not appear or explain his actions in a vague manner, it is likely that the President of Ukraine will be required to be released from office of the acting authority of such importance as the Special Service. There are enough professionals who can lead this service. What is also surprising is that all the mail sent to the President's Secretariat is returned to the committee without even being printed without any explanation. These are the signs of democracy demonstrated by the Secretariat of the President. So allow me to pass, Adam Ivanovich, to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u74	Yes, I'm making you notes, and to others, no one gets more than they need. You two have, unfortunately, used it. Either ask someone to give, or make a bet. Yes, please, Boris Bilasch, prepare the Coat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u75	Dear friends, dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues! We're looking at the double standard theory, we're seeing what they are. The oranges come to the cash registers, these cash registers storm. And at the same time, so to speak, why do they get their salary? If you are no longer deputies, Why, the orange stew, for those who yearn for their wages, storming the cash register, breaking the door down? Because everyone knows: You're used to being stupid! I feel sorry for them for something, you know. In fact, they are choirs that perform the orange arias, and chorus is managed by the world’s archduke conductors. Therefore, when they wake up, all their mental activities are designed to bring about another danger to their beloved people. They're talking about cleaning through early elections, and I'm like a man from the ground, and more specifically like a former miner, that is, from the depths of the earth, I can offer the following option, as the miners do after hard work, when they come to the bathroom: A hot shower is a blessed pleasure! Shacks away, and I'm smoking, The guys are going where the white couple are going, mollusks from head to toe, And as if there were flashes of light, The smiles of the bereaved are blind. And indeed, he who watered the fat, the slayer of our famous Issa (Isa (Jesus), with its wide back, He said, "Come on, go!" He's whipping up a piss like a rucksack. Cool shoulders until the third light. That's what happened to the crash, he's instead of the stand. With your shoulder, with your back, with your bed. What a force in the torso of an equinox! Spina, brother, you're a power! And he winked at me in the satanic way, He disappeared, like God, apart in couples clubs. I sat on the bench, hung even, And I smile, it's an honor. Is it from those who multiply our afflictions? Don't you think it's an orange rush? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Boris Fedorovich. Don't be surprised they get paid. The cost of listing should be compensated. Kovtunenko Alexander, please. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u77	Dear Head, honourable deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine. And orange and white and blue are all Ukrainian citizens. The citizens of our nation are the only, the only, the only. Regrettably, a month ago, Ukraine succumbed to a huge raid on the part of some of the security services that we should have taken care of. No one noticed that it was in the territory of Balogah, the Carpathians, that the so - called peoples, the Russians, were accepted. Our grandfathers, our great-grandfathers, fought for the unity of the state, they created it, and they did everything they could to keep the services of the neighboring states from tearing us apart. What's really interesting about this is that the huge upheaval of the state is happening right out of the hands of the President of Ukraine. It's very interesting that one of the opposition forces, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, unfortunately too much of my own, has taken on the pervading of the state of Ukraine. What's wrong with her? Does he just want power? At whose price? At what price? The stability, the development of the country of Ukraine, the blood it wants, what it does. Brother to brother, citizen to Ukrainian citizen, here's what they do. What does the U.S.S.A. do? Should they not have been the first to cease the activities of the Zacarpathian District Council, the Balogs of the heads of the administration, and some leaders of the opposition because they rocked the state? And they rock it and they're not ashamed of it, they say, yeah, we have to rock the state, because the government will pay the wages, give the pensioners, that's what our opponents don't like. They are not opponents. Trust me. The Orange majority of their state patriots, too, and they don't want to go to the wall, not go to the blues in their foreheads. We are all members of our society. We're the only ones in Kharkiv, Lviv, Crimea. We're the only ones, no one has to share us. Please, do not give in to the provocation of some of the provocateurs who are already conducting the second campaign on the wall, the forehead on the forehead. We have to stop this chaos or this raid on the country of Ukraine. Who's behind this? Yes, there are some financial groups that are going to make money in Ukraine on a bunch of our state-owned enterprises for nothing. That's who's behind it. That's who needs instability. That's who needs inflation. That's who needs a weak government. That's where the roots come from, let's look at it. What was to be done by Nadjajchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Well, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u79	Dear head, I'm done. The state will stand. She's strong, she's strong. Because there are MPs like the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party, the Socialist Party, and the BUIT, which I hope will be a full room next week. We won't let anyone destroy our country anymore. It was not in vain that our children and parents created us to be strangers, and I apologized, even to an unrooted nation, that we were shaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u80	Thank you. But let us not forget “Our Ukraine”, and we will invite them as well. Santa Claus, please. Prepare Pritika.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u81	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies, respected TV listeners! I inform you that as one of the fifty - three national deputies who submitted to the Constitutional Court an application for an anti-constitutional Presidential decree to terminate the Supreme Council for the term of office, he spent three days in a session of the Constitutional Court. Voters, all Ukrainian citizens should know the real state of political competition around the Constitutional Court. On the first day before the Constitutional Court, it was possible to come freely. The court began its work by considering our submission, without a doubt, both Yushchenko and Timoshenko. Well, first of all, Timoshenko, who's trying to put all sorts of pressure on Yushchenka. And she's still doing it. And then, when the Constitutional Court started its work, the next day went quite different. A very different situation began to arise. They arrived, more faithfully, from BUTU, from “Our Ukraine” and from the so-called “Self-Defense”. These are normal, ordinary people themselves in the absolute majority, but there are several groups of young people who are immediately visible in the form of clothing, in short hair, in sports form and in preparation. They were blocked all the entrances to the Constitutional Court, and members of the Constitutional Court, national deputies with physical force, were not allowed into the Court Hall. Who was in charge of them? My name is Turkov, by the way, believer, Winsky, defector, Hubski, Zwania and others, the entire asset is Timoshenko. Calls were made: the beating of MPs, the beating of members of the Constitutional Court, the beating of those who support the coalition. I'm stressing that no matter what the militia, no matter what the omon, there could be a tragedy. Of course, Timoshenko is the organizer of all these laws. And if you look at all of her activity after the election when she didn't become Prime Minister, and she wanted to be very much, then we have a whole series of measures: trying to take over the Supreme Council Hall, break microphones, shields, travel to the United States, then the Constitutional Court doesn't recognize it. and the Constitutional Court, and its decision. And now I've come to the point that it's forcing deputies to write those statements that we talked about. It's a diagnosis, it's a disease. And the disease and diagnosis must be treated. She doesn't think about people. So, people, be alert. Such words have already been spoken, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich. Get ready, Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! As with many other national MPs, I had to get acquainted with the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe on the political situation in Ukraine adopted yesterday, April 19, 2007. The resolution states that the ongoing political instability is the result that, over the years of independence, the Ukrainian authorities have failed to produce a coherent policy reinforced by meaningful legal, administrative and economic reforms. In my speech, I want to stop in such an important direction of the Ukrainian state system as the conduct of legal and judicial reform in our country. All political parties and blocs in their pre-election programmes, along with economic and other tasks, have declared the need for judicial and legal reform, that is, stressed the need for the reconstruction and major improvement of the judicial system, the law enforcement authorities, and, of course, the sciences, scientific institutions, where human rights personnel are prepared to work in courts, prosecutors, militias, lawyers and other institutions called on by the State to protect human rights. Just think, more than a thousand scientific institutions, regardless of their main teaching profile on the conveyor stream, without having a proper scientific base, print specialists of different directions, including lawyers. In this regard, I ask the Ministry of Education, when conducting accreditation, to check the ability of the institutions to carry out such an important mission as the training of human resources for law enforcement and law enforcement authorities in the State. It is known that the selection of personnel for the judicial system is carried out by the relevant qualified commissions, the Higher Council of Justice, to some extent by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s professional committees. I wanted to draw the attention of these authorities to the demanding, uncompromising treatment of candidates for all levels of judges. Only during the fifth session of Parliament was the Supreme Council released for violating the oath of more than 20 judges who were appointed on an indefinite basis. Undoubtedly, the Justice Committee, the High Council of Justice, the Qualified Commissions need to continue to study deeply the personal qualities of applicants, both professional and moral, in order to prevent the process of sending justice on behalf of the State of Ukraine to random people who further undermine citizens' confidence in the judiciary and the State as a whole. In connection with the implementation of judicial reform, society has great hopes for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a coalition of national unity that must complete complex judicial reform. I do. Dear voters, I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u84	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u85	That neither the Ukrainian Party of Regions nor the Socialists and Communists have forgotten their pre-election programmes and made every effort to implement them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Gorbenko. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Looking at the news of the world’s news agencies, I drew attention to information that reported that Romania’s parliament on April 19 had temporarily suspended the power of the president of the country to abuse power. The President of Romania is charged with 19 violations of the Constitution. And on the same day, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in its resolution of 10, recommends that the ordinary and early elections be a legitimate democratic tool for the election and control of the people of power acting on his behalf. Early elections are a normal practice in all the democratic states of the Council of Europe and as such can be a key component of political compromise. So it's also a normal practice to suspend the President's powers and his early election. Only such a conclusion can be drawn from the events and documents that Europe is demonstrating to us. The Ukrainian Constitution provides for the legal responsibility of the President himself, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian National Deputies. By his decree, President Yushchenko drew the Supreme Council of Ukraine to political responsibility. But it is necessary for the Supreme Council to be guilty of its actions or omissions in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The Supreme Council of Ukraine had to violate article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine in order to apply such penalties as leave. In this case, the Supreme Council did not do what the President ceased to do. But the Constitution clearly defines the powers of the President. Article 102 deals with the functions of the President, i.e. the general orientation of his activities – the guarantor of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. This is just one function. The second function. The guarantee of respect for the Constitution, human rights and freedoms and the citizen. Under these functions, the Constitution defines the powers of the President. However, these powers are clearly defined and are not subject to arbitrary interpretation. Unfortunately, the President did not become a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution, but became a violator of it. This should be the beginning of an appeal to the constitutional and political responsibility of the President of Ukraine. The PARE resolution has already confirmed two main conclusions from 19 conclusions, recognizing the first priority tasks for the highest legislative body – the Supreme Council for the creation of a perfect legislative base for the possibility of holding elections, thereby acknowledging the legitimacy of parliament, without which the authorities of the single body of constitutional justice, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should be assured and respected. Against any action outside the legal field and a strong choice of events, those who are now behind escalation and socio-political.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u88	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u89	The people of Ukraine are guilty of their wrongs. On the other hand, with the call made by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to the President of Ukraine, to the representatives of the BUT faction, "Our Ukraine," let us do our utmost to resolve the crisis in a legitimate and peaceful manner while strictly upholding the Constitution of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u90	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, please. Behind her, Freeman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, we are constantly hearing in recent days that the oranges are in favour of the early elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What reasons do they give? What reasons do we hear from this camp of war? One very serious argument, which sounds from all the TV channels in their speeches, is that new people should come to Parliament. It's an amazing thing. Are Lucenko, Timoshenko and the Turks, and so are they new faces? They're the ones the whole country knows. And they know not only in the face, but they know about their affairs. What's the deal? One, using his position, to the right and to the left, to tear apart police property. Another also took advantage of his position, but for other purposes, he used official information for good political purposes. Well, the third can be referred to as infinity, including as a talented inventor of Ukraine's original gas supply schemes, for which it has been assigned by the people the honorary term “gassing princess”. Indeed, the entire list of candidates for the sixth call, which they have already heard today, raises similar comments. That's one thing. Next. They do not agree that some deputies allegedly fled their orange camp. But first, that's their problem. They are solely responsible for the list that they have proposed to the people of Ukraine and for which the people of Ukraine have voted. But on the other hand, the following comes about. Let us remember the programmes with which these orange parties went to the electorate and what they promised the electorate. So, if you don't think so, and you know it, you'll have to return the word and the matter to them. And maybe that's why the people's deputies elected on their lists, seeing that there's no work and no work to be done here, because their factions are fully subject to the commands given by the leaders, that's why they left the faction's position and began to vote in the way the coalition votes. And for that they are condemned, and for that today they are cursed from the orange camp. I think we should be aware. It is not possible to trust those who have a difference in speech and business with those who, for personal, ambitious, political and perhaps even financial reasons, are throwing Ukraine into the midst of a struggle. We have no political crisis – we have a crisis of individuals who are driving us to the brink of confrontation and trying to solve their personal problems, including the criminal responsibility of creating this tense situation in Ukraine today. There can be no election, there is no basis for that. If those who do not want to answer to the people for their actions, actions, and actions and misconduct, including criminal acts, today they wish to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Yeah, I can't see the Freeman anymore, he was recently. Murderer Leonid, please. He's on his way to the rostrum. And you'll get yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, I would like to address the issue of human resources policy that is being pursued by today's orange team in some regions, and in particular to illustrate it in the Sumo area. Actually, this area hasn't been happy with personnel for 10 years. The governors are regularly assigned here to serve as mates. The last such decision was taken by President Yushchenko with regard to the appointment of the head of the Suma District State Administration of the former Minister for Construction and Architecture and the former Nardep of Our Ukraine, Mr. Kachura. Both the personnel and the politicians were tolerant of this assignment at first, hoping that in time a person would be able to set up a job and a district government, and to solve the staffing problems that had accumulated over a two - year period. It wasn't what it was supposed to be. I wanted to point out that over the course of more than four years, the districts were left without the heads of the district government. At present, there are three areas that do not have a leader, that is, for two years, and these are agricultural areas, and the sowing campaign is being carried out without the presence of the first district manager. The parties, the district organizations, the anti - crisis coalition parties and the previous governor worked constructively to seek out candidates for appointment as heads of the district government. This included the Romani region, the Greatpisar region, the Labedin region, and the Bilopil region. And we found that understanding. Yet, among other things, they offered their employees, by the way, experienced people who worked in executive positions, local self - government, know agriculture well. However, Mr. Kachur has today offered persons who are members of “Our Ukraine” or those political forces that are near. In particular, the Vilikopis region can be brought here when Mr. Nikita is proposed to serve here from Konotap, which was celebrated only by being the trusted person of today’s President in last year’s presidential election. But it has no attitude toward agriculture. Although the district has its own candidature as an experienced manager, everything is in line with the direction of the district council. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u94	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk. Matvienkov gives him three minutes. Please, six minutes. Get ready. Mine's handing over Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u95	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio audiences, television audiences! Today, let's say, in my speech, I would like to touch the Bukovina, touch the region of Cherniewec, where in the pre-election period, I had to hold more than 140 meetings with the electorate. I don't want to talk about how difficult these meetings were and how hard it was to answer people about what was going on in the country, how bad people were living in the country, especially in the country, in cold clubs, where they were freezing with voters, but I still had to answer why they weren't building the road, why the gas stop. And I want to say today to those who, let's say, say today, let's go to the elections again. I answered questions about why gasification was not carried out. Why did road construction work take place? So there was a government that isn't working today, and now everything is being done: and the roads are being built within what is selected, and the gasification is being carried out, and other issues are being solved. I couldn't answer why the pension didn't go up. And today the government has raised pensions. Parliament is working. I can't answer a number of phone calls today from my constituents in the Chernobyl area who know why some of the deputies are lagging. I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, do you see in the hall, and last year, and this year, the deputies of Romanyuk, Popescu, Melniczuk? But you chose others. I'm going to say that the political power of Fatherland and our Ukraine has received the support of the Bucuinarians. Why don't you ask them what they're doing in Kiev? How they'll look you in the eye, and what they'll say at the meetings, if, say, they will, although I'm sure there won't be any early elections. And if they come to you, what will they tell you? Where do they lead the country? To the split? Is that what you want, ladies and gentlemen? Is that what you all want? I address all the Ukrainian people. No, it's not. Next. I would like to turn to believers from my native village of Neslova, Cherniewec region, the Novoselec region. Is there a cult member like the Turkov among you? None. The sect of evangelical Baptists is people who believe in God, who call for peace, for peace, that bring good into everyone's soul. Please see what kind of pastor it is. So he's in the shield, so let's say he's blocking the work of the Constitutional Court. So he calls for disobedience to power and so on. There are no such believers in Ukraine among the sects of evangelical Baptists. What faith this man is, I don't understand. I think Ukraine's history will give an answer. And now I would like to say, say, to this great Ukrainian actor, Gorena, who spoke yesterday and unethically addressed the leader of our party, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Frost. Mr. Gorenje, in 2005-2006, it wasn't Alexander Moroz, it wasn't the Socialist Party that destroyed Ukraine's economy. Where were you then, dear patriot of Ukraine? Why didn't you go on TV and tell your Ukrainian patriots that they were stealing Ukraine? It wasn't Frost who claimed to be the whole of Ukraine, the whole world, but Mr. Zinchenko, the government corruption, in the Cabinet of Ministers, where Timoshenko led it. Not July Timoshenko retired, but Yushchenko. So why are you, Mr. Horne, speaking so unethically today at Alexander Frost's address? I want to say that the political decision that our party made was the right decision to create the Anti-Crist Coalition. We've already had a hard time working with you in 2005-2006, when everyone's saying "pins" to our address, because we've entered a democratic so-called coalition. The government is working today. We have to do everything we can to get Parliament to work. And I'm going to the MPs from Fatherland, our Ukraine. Go back to the hall. The people are waiting for work, not for the division of Ukrainian society. And I would also like to use my time to talk about the Ukrainian Security Service. If such as Mr. Vasilov, appointed in Chernov, will be in the Security Service and also lead the Alpha Group and the Political Party Department, then wait all over Ukraine for provocations, because Mr. Vasilov Vasil Grigorovich has broken down the work of law enforcement agencies in Bukovina, has many dark spots, and today he serves in the Security Service where there are decent, honest officers of the Security Service, whom I bow to because you are, indeed, those who serve the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Peter Melnik, please. Bronniks behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u97	Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues! Among the problems caused by the President's decree, the most painful political crisis for Ukrainian citizens is the deterioration of the economic situation. Whoever or whatever they say is going to have a very negative impact on economic processes. First of all, it's a reduction in the amount of money that was going to come into the country in the form of investment. Ukraine has already lost the trust of foreign investors. This conclusion is based on a decrease in output exports over the past three weeks, as well as a reduction in foreign exchange revenues as a previous payment. Secondly, as a result of the decline in investment and other forms of business activity, there should be a reduction in revenues from the state budget of Ukraine. This, in turn, threatens the full payment of salaries, pensions, scholarships, and so forth. And thirdly, we have to take into account the real risk of triggering inflationary processes. They are provoked by an increase in the budget’s spending to conduct extra-cost elections against the backdrop of the decline in the investment attractiveness of banks and investment funds. The income of the investment funds has already decreased significantly over the last three weeks. It should also be borne in mind that the delay in the confrontation between the branches of government in Ukraine will not contribute to the timely implementation of the tax reform that the Ukrainian government is currently carrying out. In the face of a political crisis, the President may not sign the Tax Code adopted by the Supreme Council, which will once again delay the process of reforming the tax system for several years. The timely implementation of pension reform in 2008 will also be impossible. The conclusion is obvious. The political crisis provoked by the President’s decree will lead to a halt to the economic recovery of the country, which only began at the end of last year. Of course, the Supreme Council and the government will do their utmost to resist the negative processes indicated. But only the annulment of the President's unconstitutional decree will prevent the political crisis from turning into an economic crisis that will hit the entire community of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Vladimir Konstantinovich Bronnikov, please. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u99	Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies, respected Government of Ukraine! I believe it is time to move from euphoria to the right of the European Football Championship to the concentration of all Ukrainian resources in order to achieve a decent outcome in the preparation of the infrastructure and service for the football championship. Let us see if any other Government other than the Government of Viktor Yanuković can now bring all the resources of Ukraine into this case? Could any other Government guarantee international pressure and attract the necessary world resources to achieve that goal? The elementary calculations show that, starting in the second half of 2000, at least 30,000 highly skilled engineers and workers who do not know what European quality is, at least in the construction of roads, stadiums, hotels, service infrastructure, remodelling of border crossings, must work. These groups have yet to be established and trained. Could this work be carried out by a Government that has demonstrated only the ability to ride horses and horses of different sexes in its highest achievements? A silencer opening borders for foreign rotting meat, for foreign gasoline, stopping Ukrainian oil factories? Could another orange Government, which, by its omissions, actually opened the way to the provocations of the Government of Timoshenko to destroy agreements with Russia in the oil and gas sector, lead to a jump-starting increase in tariffs and a heavy burden on the lives of the common people? I think that only these examples are enough to understand that oranges can only raise people to fight for their power, that is, for their power, for their benefit, that is, for their benefit to their people. I am sure that anyone for whom the words “part of Ukraine” do not sound empty, fulfilling Europe's mandate to hold a world football championship to trust only the Government of Viktor Yanuković, who in 2003 and 2004 and in 2006 and in 2007 demonstrated his ability to concentrate Ukraine's economy on social development and to concentrate the people of Ukraine on social goals. Only the existing Parliament can ensure and monitor the work of the Government, and not only because.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u100	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u101	And not only because it is said that horses are not changed in transit, but because it is this Parliament that has appointed both Yanukovic and all ministers and is therefore responsible to the people for the results of their work. With regard to the plain oranges, you have time to think about where the leaders have taken you, whether they want to work for you or want to use you, for the elections are coming up soon. 2011 not too soon. If you want the same thing as Timoshenko and Lucenko want, think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High-ranking voters, high-ranking representatives of the Ukrainian people, citizens of all nationalities! Today, again in “different” we talked about different topics. We are all concerned that in Ukraine today, at the level of officials, we are referring to the President's Administration, the laws are not being enforced and the Constitution is not being implemented. But I want to talk to the representatives who work at the places. I would like to address the representatives of the President and the orange forces of the Montenegrin District Administration and the Chernobyl District Council today, please allocate the funds for the construction of the gas in the village of Gorlovo in the Hertzai district. And you're only single in other villages -- where there's only your representatives who give money to your election. The other one. I call on the District Guard Authority to find the funds and asphalt the section of the Budenec - Top Petrovci road, because in the times of the orange governments, the funds were allocated, but the plot remained unscathed. The district attorney’s office at the Watch Tower Office would like to pay attention and check where the funds are being distributed. The next moment. I pay attention to the Regional Council's Deep Restraint on the pitiful state of the road on the Deep Suchina-Kupka section, where your buses are taking you to Kiev. I also point out that in violation of the provisions of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, the village of Korchevci in the Glubo region, where the director is a member of the Party of the Fatherland of Yulia Timoshenko and where, according to the 89th census, when the population was given in each village, more than 90 per cent is Romanian and the Romanian language is not even studied. You're talking about Europeanism. The next moment. I appeal to the great Democrat, Mr. President. Why have the heads of four district government administrations — Novoselické, Stožinetsky, Glubický, Hertzijov district not yet studied the language of the majority of the indigenous population? You said that even during the campaign, the heads of administration would know the language. Most of the population should come to you with translators. Why don't you keep your promises, Mr. President? The next moment. I wanted to speak to the Minister of Defense of Grycenk: why has not the Romanian Cultural Palace in Chernivice, which was built at the expense of the Romanian community, been issued at the time of the nationalization of the House of Officers? But now the garrison in Cherniv is being formed, and instead of returning the proper palace of culture to the indigenous population, you want to sell it. And think, who's above it? Mr. Gricenko, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe said that the troops should be neutral, think about it, and do not take the steps that you are now being pushed into. Finally, I appeal to everyone to read 60 articles of the Constitution: No one is obliged to obey criminal orders because sooner or later they will have to answer for it. In due time, Korean President Ro Deu responded.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u104	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u105	President Ro De U thought he wouldn't answer the law, left behind a nice guy, but it's been eight years, and he's been put to death by configured Democrats. True, both were given 25 years later. Other developments are now taking place in Romania. Democracy will win sooner or later, and the rule of law will also prevail. Ukraine is going to Europe. Ukraine is based on the rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-20-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. All those who wanted to speak in the “Various” had the opportunity to do so. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I remind you that in connection with the accepted one. In accordance with the decree adopted on the special working arrangements of the Supreme Council, next week we are not working in the districts, as provided for in the calendar plan, but we are in the sessional room in the morning and then in the committees. About next Tuesday's meetings, if they are, and I think they will, we'll let you know on Monday. Good luck. Good luck.
