ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, invited, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, honorary judges in our session hall, TV sets, and radio audiences! It's April 12th. I would like to welcome you all to the Day of Cosmonautics, with a wonderful day. . which speaks of a huge breakthrough in the development of science, technology. And although today is not as warm as it was in 1961 on April 12, when all the trees were dissolved, it was green, but the festival was extremely large. I think that his echoes will always be kept in the hearts of those who remember this, such as, indeed, the breakthrough of mankind to a new quality of life, to new heights. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:15]] Ready to work 262 people's deputies. The rest are still busy with other things. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues! Even though we don't have deputies in the Hall of Posjevnova and Sivuliski, but whether they are here or not, time is coming, and they're having their birthday today. Let's welcome them, keep them healthy and think about where they need to be. [[Applause]] It's either in the session room or somewhere else. But today is the day of the birth of Konjikhov Stanislav Mikolaiovich, the general designer of KB, who was 70 years old. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] This is a talented person, a well-known organizer and producer and designer. Whoever was on this KGB can say that there will be time and this construction office will show that examples of their work in such a way that they can be used to protect the country's sovereignty and to ensure Ukraine's trade prospects in its contacts with the world in general. I would like to report that yesterday, the Minister of Education and Science's Office of the Ministers of Education and Science took the Order on the establishment of salary increases, salary rates and additional pay for certain types of pedagogical activities in relation to the tariff rate. This is a very important decision, which is now being made for those who are employed in the educational sphere – in school, in secondary schools, in higher education institutions, in addition to appointment fees, in charge of groups, sports sections, in charge of laboratories, in educational work, etc., as a percentage of the size of the official salary. This is a colossal shift that the Cabinet of Ministers has found over half a billion dollars. I think this will be the answer to the need provided for in article 57 of the Education Act, and it is good that the government has finally decided on this issue. [[Applause]] Honorable fellow MPs, according to our agreement, were also determined last week. We have time to make an assessment of what's going on, of the political situation and of your proposals for its settlement, half an hour to do so. Please sign in. Write down who wants to speak. Goncharov. Red-tailed Sergey Vasilovich, please, instead of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u2	Redfoot Sergey Vasilovich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues, the TV set! Yesterday, April 11th, after the 19th hour, about 300 representatives of the orange forces intended to enter a tent town of coalition forces in Krestatika. At that time, veterans of the Afghan war, members of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, headed by the deputy head of the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan, Oleg Mihtuk. After lengthy debates, these representatives were forced to leave, that is, at about 8:30 p.m., peace was said to have been established. I have to warn the hotheads again from the opposite, unfortunately, today we have a camp. Boys and girls, don't play with fire, it'll lead to very, very serious consequences. Cut off your nose and pass it on to your subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u3	Thank you. Well, I understand that Sergey Vasilovich, as a general, is very subtle, so I understand his information. In other words: There's got to be no fight between the players of the various shares. I mean, from different angles. We need to find common ground, deal with each other, and so forth. Stoyan. Bertash still gives him his right. Stoyan's talking right now, so please, he's got five minutes to play.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Alexander! Respectable compatriots! Dear representatives of the media! In my speech on behalf of the faction of the Party of Regions, I would like to address the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk. I was moved by the events that took place yesterday at two venues in Kiev and all over Ukraine. We hope that you, Victor Andryovich, were able to see these rallies and listen to what the speakers were talking about, at least you should have heard about it. Thousands gathered for the Mayan Independence rally. These people in their speeches called on you, first of all, to repeal the anti-constitutional decree, to support the coalition government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, and they called on all Ukrainian citizens to unite, to unite our efforts together. I would very much like you, Victor Andryovich, to come to these people, because these people are also Ukrainian citizens, they represent the majority of the population of Ukraine, they reflect the opinion of the majority of the population of Ukraine. And you would look at their eyes and look at their faces. They were good eyes, they were sincere smiles, it was a good mood, there was no malice, there was no resistance, there was no aggression. They called for harmony, and it sounded in every performance. The same performances were made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, leader of the Communist Party Peter Simonek, who was also the leader of our party Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic. In his speech, he again addressed you, Victor Andriyovich, as the President to sit down at the negotiating table, to find an understanding. And in his speech, Victor Fedorovich told Ukrainian citizens that this year, despite the crisis that was, the government plans to raise the minimum wage three times, the government plans to raise pensions, raise salaries for teachers, doctors. This is the position of the coalition government, this is what people need, this is what people come to: to support this very government, this kind of politics! And what the people of Europe said and heard. I would also like you to listen to this, Mr. President. Here are just individual proposals from Viacheslav Kirilenka, who is the leader of your party -- our Ukraine -- and the leader of the faction in Parliament. Kirilenko urged you to take another anti-constitutional action. He urged you to dissolve the successful Cabinet of Ministers. He urged you by decree to appoint members of the CLTC, even though they should pass through Parliament and make an oath. I'm not talking about the hysterical performance by the former head of the Turkish Air Force. I'll tell you, if that's how this pastor's gonna do his sermons, then all the pastors from him are gonna break up. And that's why people come out of "The Fatherland" and move into the anti-crisis coalition of ours. Comes in and asks you to put everyone away for the game. I'm not talking about the performance by the famous Pope Gappon Lucenk. If he used to be a drummer, he is now a charmer, for the same plate spins: plant, run, order, and so forth. Where did he design the appeal to harmony, where social issues? And so we ask you, Sir Victor Andryovich, to listen to people's thoughts. Listen to the thinking of the venues that were all over Ukraine yesterday. Listen to our proposal for national unity. Let's stretch each other's hands again and again. Let us unite the whole of Ukraine. You still have a chance to revoke your order. You still have a chance to sit at the negotiating table. In the name of the people of Ukraine, in the name of stability, in the name of peace. I, on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, once again urge you, Mr. President, to seek compromise and production and to resolve all matters in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u5	The word is Mordovian. He's handing over his rights to Baraniv. Alexander Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u6	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished audiences. I would like to welcome today's Supreme Council with the President's approval of us. I'm looking at the documents they gave us today. Three laws the President asks the Supreme Council to review on April 3rd, that is, he recognizes us. And I'd like the Secretariat to understand that, too. They're leading their line, and they're leading their line to the President. I would like to say two more words about what happened yesterday in Ukraine, namely, the coalition rally and the so - called united opposition rally. So is there a united opposition or not? Yesterday it was shown that she was gone, that she had just appeared, that there would be no reason for the election, no reason to appear, and that they were already biting over places on the lists, and everyone claims to be walking in a separate column. This reminds me of that story when a gypsy buys a chicken and tells his family that he will lay many eggs, they will divorce chickens, they will sell, they will buy a mare, and they will bring bad. And the gypsy says, “And I will ride on it.” And his father beats his brother for breaking his back. That's exactly what the opposition is talking about today. And I'd like to remind all the opposition that Julia Timoshenko didn't show up yesterday. She used everyone she could, and she didn't come to the rally herself. That says a lot about something. Yesterday, the opposition's faces were too hard and they were too bad. George Lucenko told the audience on the playground, the color of the monkey’s ass, because they did not know. He insulted the President in his speech when he said what the Ukrainians thought afterwards. First they do, then they start thinking. I don't think it's good for the opposition when they do that. Yuri Lucenko also called for the removal of all post - Soviet life yesterday. And I'd like to remind him of Rasul Hamzatov, who said that whoever shoots a gun in the past will be shot with a gun in the future. I'd like to remind him of that. I would like to remind him of his father, Vitalia Lucenka, who has worked consciously all his life in high party and Soviet positions in Ravenna, Kiev, and so forth. And a very respectable man, respected by Ukraine and respected directly in the Plains. So what does he say about giving up, giving up on his father, all that stuff in the past? Yesterday I would have liked more, and the Turk's speech surprised me. As far as I know, he is a pastor of one of the Baptist arrivals, and they acknowledge authority, saying that authority from God is what I know. Because how can you speak with such malice and where “the love of men” is when you perform in front of people today. There's only one way to think about it. Yesterday the opposition gave up the President, she just walked away from him. And, Your Honor Victor Andriyovich, you had to come to a conclusion and review your decree, which you issued on April 2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u7	Thank you. Alexander Petrovich, is it so obvious that you just wanted to say that Lucenko was talking at Maidan or something? Maybe whoever didn't hear it did. Let's talk a little bit more about what happened yesterday, it's all vanity in the end. Please, John Sidorovich Boki is speaking instead of Kuzmenek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The president of Ukraine did push Ukraine into a political crisis he and his aggressors organized. According to the custom of those on whom the hat burns, he translates a double for his indiscretion into the Supreme Council. But it is a classic habit of all dancers who are hindered even by the glue under the floor. With an intellectual type of the same kind of state, of course, it's hard to control, but it's said to be a problem of his honour. Of course, if it's not the letter for the President, but the spirit of the Constitution, it's better for all Ukrainian citizens to be cool sniffers, and what do I have to do for those who wear it? Distrusting the eyes, trusting the brains, and what is a spirit that is unthinkable, its one that must be accepted for faith? Yet, in the people, it is said that the ladies are not as tenants. And the decision of such a singer or comedian grandmother, not a presidential telephone player who never read the Constitution, but imagined having as many as two diplomas as the Supreme Council no longer exists, and the national MPs all became one. The president is said to love faithful, though illiterate, letters and figures. And the smell in them is more evolved than any Sirca. But after the strange appearance of the aliens, the decree was stirred by a scientist and a cocky domestic, pleased to serve the President to justify his spiritual approach to the Constitution. And you know what they talked about. By referring to Philip Orlik, offering a constitutional monarchy to Ukraine. Come on, I said, he's a hetman and a councillor with him. That's what Parliamentarianism is all about. Hehtman, of course, chooses Yushchenk. The people’s government, proclaimed in the Constitution of Ukraine, is an enemy of hetman constitutionalism. So from European democracy, Ukraine jumps into the medieval charismatic monarchy. What's not our President's dream of gold? It would be the Supreme Council, not by itself, but by him, and even though you have rested on the pasture for all eternity. The proponents of the smell-spiritual treatment of the Constitution call themselves the systolics. And those who read the Constitution the way it is written are normative, but if we read the Basic Law of the State like that, can we not get to the fact that we're going to deprive Ukraine of all branches of power other than the Presidential, or is it the Pak-Hehtman? And then, without a shadow of humor, we will scream as we once did: “Let Constantine and his wife the Constitution live! ” Mr. Yushchenko may be pleased to see that by his decree, he awakened the entire array of conformists of various paintings. But we can rejoice even more with you. Even in this room, these conformists brightened up nicely. I’m surprised to read in one of the popular newspapers that there are always few deputies in this room. The paradox is that this newspaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u9	Finish it, please. The bubble's asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u10	That this newspaper is headed by a national MP who is seen in the session room -- the same thing as watching a total solar eclipse for once in his life -- he runs away from the Supreme Council like a gray vine. In five years, no one has heard it from either the rostrum or the site, even though he has been boasting of himself in the newspaper for more than a year, even the entire pages are dedicated to himself, as they were in Stalin’s day. Paradox, I'm sorry, he read it once, not at a session, but at parliamentary hearings. And in his newspaper it was reported as a historical event, with a portrait and so on. The officer's widow was squeezing herself? But this so-called widow is serving too much today, of course, for the rough money of the rebels, especially the famous poacher with his favorite word "okay". Conformism, it's always a conformism where you don't become a political money changer and don't wear it. “The disgusting thing is the agony of the regime,” wrote the great Lina Kostenko. Disgusting and present - day convulsions of the regime of one who recently and today does not oppose the chorus of glue to his messiahship. Let him look at those in this choir today. The fact that he was supported by the lawyer’s son Volodymyr Girinowski would have made him shudder and wonder what kind of company he was serving. Too stupid for him, an ex-militar who once studied at the expense of his daughter. He's too fond of illiterate telephonists and agrees to consecrate every step he's taken by the peaceable scientists. That's what happens when you're on a horse. Where will these conformists be when you're under the horse?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u11	Thank you. Petrik, please, from the Party of the Regions. It's his word for dinner, isn't it? He's got the word "dinner." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u12	Deeply respected Alexander Alexandrovich, deeply respected people's deputies! We are all Ukrainian citizens, and we may have different political beliefs and sympathies. But one thing that unites us is the desire to live in a united, strong and prosperous Ukraine, to raise children and grandchildren, and to look to the future with confidence. Supporters of various political forces, citizens of all regions today must unite around the values of national unity, join forces under one State flag. All political disputes must be resolved only within the framework of the Constitution and the laws. Only the decision of the Constitutional Court can determine whether political and economic developments continue. This is what the representatives of Europe and the various European and world institutions are focusing on, which consider the resolution of this political conflict in the constitutional and legal fields to be an examination for Ukraine's young democracy. The President's surprise was expressed by the representative of the German Bundestege Manfred Ground: "President Yushchenko has resorted to such an extreme means in the struggle for power as the dissolution of parliament. And I am alarmed because I understand that Parliament will not allow itself to be dissolved quickly. But even after the dissolution and the new elections, none of the problems facing Ukraine will be solved.” The representatives of Europe support the view of the Coalition for National Unity that only the Constitutional Court can take a decision that will help overcome the political crisis in Ukraine. On 9 April, in his interview with the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, my colleague on the Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation of Ukraine, the European Union, Vice-President of the European Parliament, Marek Sivec, said that only the Constitutional Court could and should resolve the political conflict within the country, after which a political compromise should be found to address Ukraine's internal problems. One of the main mediators during the resolution of the political conflict in 2004 Alexander Kwasnevsky also confirmed during yesterday's visit to Kiev that the Constitutional Court must make its decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u13	Thank you. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u14	to seek further compromise. And Mr. Andrian Severin, head of the European Parliamentary Cooperation Committee “Ukraine – European Union”, said that the European Union was prepared to provide the necessary assistance and support to overcome the internal political conflict in Ukraine. The MPs of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, who are officially visiting Ukraine, also support the opinion of the European Parliamentarians and various European institutions that the political crisis must be resolved exclusively in the legal field.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u16	In conclusion, I would like to tell everyone, both the opposition and the coalitions: building, not fighting, unity, not discord. In the unity of the country, the future of Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Once again, I'm talking to everyone who's speaking: stay on the clock for three minutes. No, no, three minutes, because otherwise you're using the time of other deputies, you're using a foreign right. Alexander Kalashnikov, who received the word, will now give an example of this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected fellow citizens! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. I must inform you of what is happening today in the Special Forces. Thus, I am a direct participant in that parliamentary control on 7 June, one of the parts located in the city of Kiev, when we have indeed found a state of increased military readiness, the extradition of weapons and ammunition. Regrettably, at a meeting with the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on 10 April this year, members were given an answer: Members would not be admitted to such facilities, MPs would not be able to communicate with their personnel and, above all, the Minister of Defence had assumed responsibility for a part-time special purpose in person and had declared that he had brought into a state of increased military readiness the unit which the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had brought into proper condition on 7 April in accordance with the military statutes. I would like to inform you that today the most elite parts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are on the alert, three at least armed groups of 100, 150 and 80, who are mobilized and ready to carry out the tasks of taking over the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, arresting members of the Supreme Council, members of the Coalition of National Unity, members of the Government, and are prepared to carry out arrests in the workplace. The data are now confirmed by the fact that these groups have been trained, they have models, they have direct deployment of deputies in the working cabinets. The worst part is that they are ready to take over the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the corps that accompany him. Moreover, information is already available today and, unfortunately, the Minister of Defence has not allowed us to dispel this information, that the places prepared to intern the arrested members of the coalition and the Government. In fact, three combat units are now ready to undertake a coup d'état and carry out a constitutional seizure. Unconstitutional takeover of power. When I speak from this rostrum, I address every deputy, address my fellow citizens, and address the President of Ukraine. I hope that he will take all measures today to allow parliamentary control of the members of the Supreme Council to these facilities and that the President himself, as a guarantor of the Constitution, will not allow elite special forces to be used to counter the legitimately elected representatives of the people, the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. I appeal to you and ask you to use this information and perhaps take additional measures together to ensure constitutional order in the country and protect it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u19	Thank you. Korsakov has the word. After him, the Headmaster. Huh? Verni Dubov instead of Korsakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u20	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of “Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, there's been a sensation in the media these days. There were always four judges of the Constitutional Court who gave a silent press conference. Papal heroes and cosmonauts would rest when they heard of the suffering of people who had worked eight months in pain without making any decisions, and they became very tired. I wanted to cry, sympathetic to one of the speakers who was forced to such an extreme step by a handful of people whom he saw from the height of his high constitutional office and immediately became afraid. For so many years, I've been pursuing the judge's office, reaching out for the goal, taking an oath of honesty and conscientiously doing it, and doing it. Honorable MPs, may we put our hats around the diapers of those four heroes who have involved a woman in this unjust act? But laughter, and the detective scenario should end because the judges complained about the pressure, not saying who and how they were pressured, and whether they referred to the law enforcement authorities for that reason. Where, then, is the oath, the honourable, honest and conscientious discharge of the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court?Oh, my God! Where, after all, is civil courage and just human conscience?Oh, my God! “I’m not going to work at the farm” is the slogan of the geeks. It turns out they took an oath just to get paid, and how did the time of the professional trial go in the bush? What kind of pilots are afraid to fly? What are these miners who refuse to go down in battle? Then retire and pray to your children. But cowardice is still half-breed. The trouble is that they made that conclusion for the entire composition of the Constitutional Court, as requested by the Presidential Office. I quote: “The President of Ukraine has adopted a decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine within the limits of its constitutional powers.” This is a clear violation of the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitution of Ukraine, and the Rules of the Constitutional Court. This is already the basis, inter alia, for the examination of the violation of the oath by these judges, which they have made before Parliament from this rostrum, and for which, according to the fifth part of the first part of article 23 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the authority of the judge ceases, and the decision is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and not only by those elected by Parliament. The people always gave wise grades to all events. An elderly man who, standing before the Constitutional Court, came from Zaporozhye and said: “This matter will not be considered, they will come up with something.” When we said, “No, this is where legal elites are gathered, qualified, competent experts”, he said, “I know, many literate lawyers, and there are very few honest and decent lawyers.” Let's think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u21	Chief Sergey Petrovich. Behind him is Chechetov instead of Makeenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u22	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Fellow MPs, Your Honor. My speech is based on three circumstances or motives. First. This is my position, the political position in this situation. Once again, I would like to emphasize who might be of the journalists or of the Ukrainian citizens who did not understand me. I'm not part of the parliamentary government coalition. I am politically opposed to the parliamentary-government coalition. But I'm in opposition to the President's actions today. Legally, I'm in opposition, like a lawyer I can't admit to actions, such actions are legal. The other one. Today, Mr. President will speak to society about the rule of law. I have a question. Is there anything that a person who acts illegally can say about legality? So I'm going to say a few words. And it is by using what is sitting in the judge’s bed that I want to say about legality. Clearly, the President violated the rule of law. The principle of legality for the actions of the President in this situation is an exclusive article of the 90th Constitution. All that outside of article 90, on the possibility of a parliament being dissolved, is outside the scope of article 19, which defines the principle of legality, the principle of constitutional legality, and the principle of legality is an integral element of the rule of law. I do not yet know any regimes or political actors that, in violation of the rule of law, end well for themselves as a political actor or as a political regime. And whoever did it, whether it's Parliament or the President or the Minister or the government. So I think that's the fate of our actor. He referred to the fact that the transition from faction to faction is a violation of the Constitution. I can't imagine how I or any of you, by changing your mind, or voting in one way or another in favour or against, by exercising your right to freedom of opinion, in freedom of opinion and belief, will enter the Constitution? In the 90th article of the Constitution, Mr. President referred to a violation of national sovereignty. So that's the thing that Russo also formulated this doctrine, and we have it in the Constitution that is present in the form of the principle of national sovereignty that national sovereignty is sitting here. Parliament is an expression of national sovereignty and it is expressed by vote. If there is a simple majority, 226 is the expression of national sovereignty, and today there are 262 more. All of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u24	30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u25	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u26	All who are not here do not participate in the exercise of national sovereignty. So those theories that recommended that the President refer to this, they just don't know Russo, or they just don't know basic things in constitutional law. That's the last of it. The president said that what was happening was a threat to national security. I can't understand how an active parliament formed by legitimacy, elected democratically, recognized worldwide, that these were democratic elections could pose a threat to Ukraine's national security. So now, with 15 points to any negotiations or ultimatums or compromises, I want to address the head of Parliament Alexander Moroz, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Victor Yanukovic with my vision and my call -- no negotiations, and no paragraphs 15, 25, 150 can be, until the President by his decree restores constitutional legality in Ukraine by cancelling his illegal decree. Only after this decree can there be negotiations at least one item at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u27	Chechatov. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Alexandrovic, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, above all, I would like to thank the hundreds of thousands of people in Kiev and millions of people throughout Ukraine for the civil courage and civic position expressed yesterday in support of the National Unity Coalition policy for peace, democracy, integrity and indivisibility of Ukraine. Yesterday has shown that civil society, which has long been determined by policies of diversity in Ukraine, has already existed. This is evidenced by the almost complete failure of yesterday's orange group, which in a week's advance rally was unable to raise as many as 5,000 people for money. If in the main area of the country, the five-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-nation coalition of national unity was the main reason for people's concern about the country's fate, for its democratic perspective, for Ukraine's integrity and indivisibility was expressed by the loud yes! in support of the Constitution, a group of fully debased extremist politicians on the European ground has driven the hysteria for only one narrow corporate purpose as a revansist non-constitutional attempt to return to their own offices. The opposition also staged a heinous provocation at a coalition rally, allegedly raising the flag of the Donetsk Republic. That's a terrible lie! Calm down, gentlemen of orange, your half-year-old stay in power in 2005-2006 reminds the Ukrainian people of a terrible nightmare. It took half a year for the Government of Yanukovic to align and stabilize the economic situation and only since January 2007 to bring the country on a path of sustainable economic growth, which has been successfully converted by the coalition Government to raise social standards for people's lives. It is unfortunate that both in 2004 and today, both by automatic destabilizing decree of the President, a dynamicly growing economy has been cut down as a bird in the air. The economy is beginning to suffer catastrophic losses, credit lines are freezing, investment flows are shrinking, budgets have already lost about half a billion bracelets, which means that the financing of social programmes will be narrowed. In other words, the group of bombarded politicians, who had incited the President to sign the decree, had thus provoked the President of the country, Viktor Yushchenk, to declare war on his own people in the field of social programmes. Victor Andreevich, it was only the ungodly who prepared the decree in the holy days of the Lord that they could reach the saints, the standard of living of the people. Mr. President, as a man of faith, you will remove these ungodly people from you and correct the error you have made, and you will repeal the decree of early termination of parliamentary power. This is what tens of millions of people expect of you, to whom is the peace, calm, stability, integrity and indivisibility of Ukraine. Then hold a round table with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the leaders of political parties. And together, as you like to say, develop a road map for getting out of a political crisis, just not for a corporate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u29	Twenty seconds to the last person who can get twenty seconds. Because more than three minutes, we'll be out because we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u30	Develop a road map to break the political crisis, not for any corporate interests, but for the benefit of the State and the Ukrainian people. Only this can stop the economy from slipping into the abyss with all the consequences. Victor Andreevich, you have a unique chance to act as a national leader. Pull the stop-screen off the train, rolling under the scaffold. Please do this in the name of Ukraine for our children and grandchildren. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u31	Thank you, too. We exchanged thoughts on the situation in accordance with the Parliament’s decision last week. We realize that radios, television sets, are listening to us today. And who's really figuring out the issues that are being raised here, who's not very well, and they hear what's coming out of the television screens, and one rally, and the other. And here we have to say that everyone has their own truth. Your truth. It is, it has, and it will be. The whole point is that our truth is based on the Constitution, because we always have to have some kind of root in which we can assess the situation. If you've produced the principles provided for in the Constitution, you follow these principles, then you can call your opinion, but by ensuring that the basic, fundamental norms laid down in our main law are respected. If we go beyond these principles, there is no longer any prospect. Because then every truth will be interpreted by those who proclaim it. But there will be no benefit for society. And so, of course, looking for a way out of this situation, it's not easy. Yes, we can say that by accusing the President of issuing an order, so to speak. We have reason to believe that. But at any rate, when the situation has gone beyond this situation, it has a different nature, and we have to get out of this situation in a way that will neutralize it and reintroduce it again. Otherwise, there will be no benefits for anyone and for the state, including. There's three choices. Obviously, we always refer to the fact that the Constitutional Court should make the right decision. The Constitutional Court is also currently having a heated debate, and it is well known from the media that the Constitutional Court's judges have asked the head of the court to start tomorrow to discuss the matter of conduct in a case which has been violated by 53 national deputies regarding the constitutionality of the President's decree. What will be the decision of the Constitutional Court now I cannot say about the date or the essence of the decision. But it's obvious to all of us that I think there are three choices. If the Constitutional Court, based on the logic of the Constitution and the letter, I emphasize once again, the letter of the Constitution cancels or recognizes the President's unconstitutional decree, then it is obvious that we should go back to this version of the status quo. There's the Supreme Council, elected in democratic elections, there's a President who, let's say he's assumed to be invalid or he's made a mistake, but he's also chosen to work for people. And to seek compromises in the sense that there is no friction among the branches of government that is unnecessary because of legislation, because of normative acts. We are ready for such cooperation. And then you can look at whether or not there are any points that Sergey Petrovich the Headate was talking about. Option two. If the Constitutional Court makes an illogical decision, to put it mildly. That's possible, because we've already had something that the Constitutional Court suddenly counted the terms of the presidency of the past, not two, as it really was, but one term. Well, it's kind of a math problem for some lawyers. And if he makes an illogical decision, what will he do? Then we have to go to the election. Then there will be any legal motivation, but when these elections are to be held and so on. In that case, there's a third option -- you have to remove the contradictions in society. Of course, in order for the cable to be dragged and then there to be no discussion, who is the chief, who uses more confidence, the elections must be held at a time that allows for the resolution of the Election Act, and secondly, the election must be held simultaneously by both the President and Parliament, and there is obviously no other way out. Today, the President holds a press conference in Mariinski, not Mariinski, and in the Ukrainian House, he holds a traditional quarterly press conference. I hope that, given all these circumstances, he will be able to bring to the journalists from the regional media his position, his attitude towards the Constitution, his vision of the outcome of this situation. I repeat, we can negotiate, we can compromise, we have adopted, by the way, last week's resolution on changes to the Rules, which is, in fact, a prerequisite for removing all questions about the interaction between the institutions of power and the formation of coalitions in particular, ensuring the constitutionality of Parliament's activities, etc. Even we have gone to a limit that even narrows the rights of deputies as to what is provided for in the Constitution itself, without going beyond it. Nevertheless, negotiations like this, compromises can be sought when you have a basis for upholding the Constitution for all. If it doesn't, it won't do any good, we're talking about it with so much anxiety and understanding the illogicality of today's political confrontation, we realize that it's artificial, it's subjective, we're talking about it with so much anxiety, and then we're apologizing for the passions that sound either at the rally or at the sessional hall, because sometimes people, and it's natural, are indignant about the illogicalness of the actions and understanding of the fundamental things that are provided for in our Basic Law. Thank you for your activity in this matter, and now that we have invited a large squad of judges, I would like to ask Sergey Kiwalov to report on this issue. The question “The election and release of judges” is now under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice at its meeting on 11 April 2007 considered the submission of the Supreme Court, the head of the Supreme Economic Court, of the election of the judges of the draft Decree 3465. Honorable national MPs, according to the procedure of the court, are given the name of the judge. The judge rises from the scene and, if he is warned, the national deputies report it from the scene. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and we return to the consideration of his question after the vote on all other candidates. Judges are in a guest bed. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The impugned appeal court of the Collodium Natalija Anatoliyevna; the local Mogilov-Podil Regional Court of the Winnitsk Region, Spruna Vladimir Vitaliyovich; The local Hmílnick District Court of the Vinnitsk Region, Alimenka Volodymira Alexandrovich, Shemet Tetjan Mikolayevna; of the local Lenin district court of Winnice - Kobbasu
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u33	Cowbass!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u34	Cowbass, I'm sorry, Yuri Petrovich; the local Luboml district court of Volin County - Peskov Mark Ivanovich; the local Yellowwood City Court of the Dnipropetrov region, Matthew Jaroslav Stepanović; The local District Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Kovalenko Nina Vasilovna; the local Saksagan District Court of the city of Kristog Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Prasolova Vladimir Mikolaiovich; the local Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye Region, the wheat Igor Anatoliyovich; the local Communiar District Court of Zaporozhye, Abroskin Vladimir Leonidovich; The local Borod-chansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u35	It's Bogorodchansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u36	Bo-go-rodchansky District Court of Ivano-Frankiv Region – Mohil Andrija Bogdanović; The local Tisminic District Court of Ivano-Frankiv Region is the Hominic of Maria Mikolayevna; the local Bilocerkow Regional Court of Kiev, Markov Olen Mikolayevna; The local Lysican City Court of Luhansk Region is Chernobrivko Ludmila Borisovna. the local Lenin district court of Poltava, Žiluk Oleg Mikolaiovich; the local Nedrigailiv District Court of Sumskie District, Žmurchenka Vasil Dmitrovic; The local Suma District Court of the Suma District – Moiseinko Olen Mikhailnovna; the local Trosnian district court of the Sumsk Region – Litovchenko Natalija Alexiyevna; the local Kovpak district court of Suma, Fomenko Irina Mikolayevna; the local Hrodotock District Court of the Hmelnicke District - Sakenova Jurija Kostinović; the local Krasiliv district court of the Hmelni district, the Black Larissa Mikhailnovna; The local monastrian district court of the Cherka district of Rotajenka - Daniel Stepanovna; the local Cherka district court of the Cherkas region - Ponomarenka Volodymira Volodymyrovich; The local Lower Regional Court of Chernigiv County, Pontienka Valentine Grigorovna. Please support these candidatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u37	Honorable deputies. According to the procedure set out in the Rules, no comments were made. That way we can bet, I can. Do you have a question? To the reporter? Perhaps this is related to his being concerned at times. Yes. Then please give Borschevski a word. Come to the microphone, I gave you my word. Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u38	Dear Sergey Vasilevich. You can explain this situation to me. How does the oath of a judge correspond to that of a judge if, before a decision is taken, the judge makes a public statement on a particular case, as did the five judges of the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u39	It's not for these judges. But answer now, Sergey Vasilovich, so that they too may know those who are considering this today and the deputies so that they may know.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u40	The judge of the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the Constitutional Court Act and the Constitution of the Constitutional Court, judges of the Constitutional Court, should permit certain violations of discipline if it is subject to disciplinary responsibility, these cases shall be dealt with directly in the Constitutional Court by the judges of the Constitutional Court themselves. With regard to the violation of the oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court, this is the fourth paragraph and the fifth paragraph of that article, which defines the powers of the judge of the Constitutional Court, they are considered in the Supreme Council. That is, if the judge of the Constitutional Court has committed a violation, and the judges of the Constitutional Court have considered it, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine is final in its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u41	Right. Deputy Borszewski has made the point clear to himself, so I have reason to suggest that you decide on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. And where the vote is. Please. [[10:56:43]] For 241 Decision taken. We welcome all the chosen judges, wish you success, health, a sense of justice, and the possibility of standing up for this justice during your work. And you mean that the temporary election of you as judges also gives you the guarantees of an indefinite life, that is, without restrictions. And so work because you have the permission of the Parliament of the State, the Parliament of Ukraine. Good luck to you. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. The Bill on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels is under consideration. The Kaletnik project has been handed over to replace previous documents. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik will report. Registration number 3158. Please. Please, a matter of principle. I would like the citizens of Ukraine to hear, and you have taken an active part in this consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u42	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! Today, a very important bill on the production and circulation of biofuels in Ukraine is being tabled on behalf of the team of authors. The current nature of the bill is based on the fact that the bill contains proposals that offer solutions to the country's strategic issues, namely, reducing the State's dependence on energy imports, increasing the state's energy security, development and sustainability of Ukraine's agro-industrial complex, creating new jobs and increasing access to budgets of all levels and to the State's first priority, improving the environmental situation. This bill is designed to regulate the market for the production and consumption of biological fuels and is aimed at creating the necessary conditions to stimulate production and consumption of this fuel in Ukraine. It contains legal, social, economic, environmental, and organizational principles for the production and circulation of biofuels. The purpose of the bill and its subsequent legislation is to stimulate the production, implementation, processing and use of biofuels by the end-user. He also foresees the production of biofuels for his own purposes by enterprises and individual manufacturers of various forms of property. This is particularly important for the agricultural sector of our nation's economy, for our well-being and many-suffering workers of the fields and farms that provide food security for the people, and now, I believe, will also ensure the energy security of our nation. In addition, the bill aims to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with European Union legislation, biofuel development and production programmes have been adopted and operate in the vast majority of developed countries. During the hearings of the bill on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the People's Deputies, representatives of ministries made a number of important proposals, which were considered and taken into account by the team of authors during the committee review. I hope that many valuable suggestions will come in the period from the first to the second reading. With the adoption of the bill and the widespread introduction of production and consumption of biofuels in Ukraine, there will be a significant increase in tax revenues for all levels, more jobs, more wages and more income for citizens, especially the lowest-paid part of the population today. So please support the bill presented to you in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. What questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u43	Please ask Gregory Mikolaiovich. Sign up. Grigory Mikolaiovich, why don't you explain right now, because there are three projects here: 3758, 3758-1, 3758-2, how should you view your proposal for these projects as a deputy? Talk to me now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u44	Thank you. Should I answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u45	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u46	I said at the outset that I am presenting a bill developed by a group of authors, these are the national deputies of the various factions represented in the Supreme Council, this is a working group created by the Supreme Council's order and the decree of the Minister of Agriculture. In parallel with this bill, two more bills were registered in the Supreme Council, and they were discussed on committees. I would like to say that the Bill of Paul’s Klimec contains a rather valuable legislative initiative on the use of bioethanol directly at Ukrainian auto-fuelling stations. It's kind of resonating with the practice that was in Poland, and it can be completely implemented in us. I hope and would like to ask that, between the first and second readings, we will definitely work with a group of authors, the author of this bill by Klimec, in order that this rule can be applied to the bill. As for the bill, which is presented under number 3158-1 Pashinski, in this bill, I think the standards apply more to biofuels than biofuels from renewables, but they regulate alternative fuels, but these fuels are regulated by the Act on Alternative Fuels. So with the author's consent, I was on the committee when these questions were discussed, and I invited him so that we could then work out some standards that might be included to apply to the topic of biofuels from renewable raw materials. They could be part of the 3158 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u47	Gregory Mikolaiovich, in other words, you suggest that you take 3158 as the basis for the first reading, and better positions from those two projects then in the second reading move in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u48	Yes, there are valuables. Thank you, Alexander Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u49	Right. Baranowski asks questions. Ten minutes to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u50	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Grigory Mikolaiovich, I thank you and the team that have come up with this bill. You know how much controversy goes. And there was always a stone of predation here that was Minfin, when such laws were passed, the preparers, because somewhere there was some kind of budget loss, it's not clear where they were going to lose when we didn't have that kind of production. But I would like to ask you some questions. You predicted benefits for the manufacturers of ethanol -- new factories -- very correctly. Are there benefits to those who will sell such fuel in legislation? The other one. That the strict norm for petrol manufacturers, the strict norm in percentages, how many years they have to add ethanol to gasoline, only this standard can be settled, because any programs -- no one will do them, and the technical conditions will make it so that we will have what we had again. At the same time, I don't think the law is complete because it's biodegradable and biodegradable. And this is probably more important to us than bioethanol. Don't you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u51	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am reporting a bill that was passed on 22 / 03. 3158 instead of the previous one. In this bill, if you pay attention, the eighth article deals with the issue of biodepleted fuel. And the fifth point is not only the normative documents, but also the recommendations of the European Union on mandatory standards for both mixed gasoline and biodiesel. Both are included in the complex and in the same way. And the benefits that apply to the construction and reconstruction of biodepleted fuel and bioethanol and biofuels as a whole, and biomotor fuels, are all regulated by the law at the same time. About Minfin and the benefits. So what I'm saying is that this bill is exactly the kind of disadvantages that were governed by the Law “O.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u52	Well, he's got it. Alexander Petrovich, Kovalevska asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u53	Dear Grigore Mikolaiovich, a very relevant and very important bill we are considering today, but there are some questions. The proposed version of the bill narrows the subject down somewhat, it is somewhat selective for alternative species of biological fuel, because it does not take into account enough of existing biofuels, which are already widely used around the world and are beginning to be used in Ukraine. First of all, I mean solid types of biofuels: wood, leaves, straw, pressed branches of wood, and so forth. Thus, a very large volume, the volume of biofuels that exists in Ukraine and no longer needing large investments for industrial production, is it out of consideration, perhaps taking this into account? And one more question. How do you propose to make the imperative of article 8 transfer the internal combustion engines to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u54	Thank you. Thank you, Julia Sergiyevna. I understand your last question. What I'm saying is that those types of fuels, the biological types of fuels that already exist and are marked, are considered by the bill. There is an article in the bill and the possibility that the legislation on biofuels can also be applied to other products made from renewable raw materials that meet the existing normative instruments. These are the ones you passed on. If normative documents are in force, they will be automatically applied because they are provided by law. As for the settlement of appropriate benefits, they also provide for transitional provisions in this legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u55	Murderer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u56	Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, I have two questions. The first question is how far the introduction of this bill and the beginning of biofuel production will contribute to improving conservation activities, the first. And the second. The bill proposes, inter alia, that part of the alcohol factories unite in the Biofuel VO for the production of this product. Would he not accept, for example, the retraining of the negative practices of many liquor factories today that have become the object of today’s scandalous corrupt tools. It's in many places. In particular, we have a longstanding problem in the Sumskie region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u57	Thank you. The bill is very much an outline of the standards for improving the environmental situation. And it's those norms and norms that are included in this bill that we have to decide first of all how to improve the environment as a whole in Ukraine through the use of mixed petrol and other biofuels, as well as, first of all, in cities of large accumulation of transport, in cities of more than 500,000 people who are explicitly prescribed in the law, and at certain times, the corresponding means of transport should be transferred to work on biological fuels. There is also a standard for the gradual transfer of ethyltredbutyl ether instead of methyltredbutyl, which is poisoned by one liter by four hundred million, forty million litres of water, drinking water. As for the creation of unity, this is the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u58	Okay. Danieline.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u59	Grigory Nikolaevich, Nikolay Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party, city of Kiev. The idea itself, the ideology of the law, is actually designed to improve the environmental situation. In particular, I would like to speak of large megapolises, including the city of Kiev. That's the question. That is, in terms of improving the environment, it will naturally be welcomed. But there are regulations that put very tightly specific digital things in connection with the transfer of urban transport. How much is it ready for today? This has been happening in European countries for about 10 years. If the bill is to be considered, we must achieve more than 50 per cent of the transfer of transport to biofuels for almost three years. How real is that going to be today?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u60	The language is purely because, in fact, the experience that already exists in European countries, and in fact and practice, the development of the state of production and the use of biofuels in Ukraine, which do not exactly need reconstruction of the internal consumption engines, have the opportunity only by virtue of the law and the corresponding economic and state scales to use these fuels today, because they are even cheaper at their cost. So there is no such thing as a warning about transition today. This has nothing to do with the reconstruction of motors, not with equipment, not with the expansion of something. And second of all, there's a rule in the bill that allows for, in the case of any substantive issues in this regard or problems, the possibility of changing these terms by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u61	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u62	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I'd like you to consider one position. The Cabinet of Ministers, and quite recently in March, considered, for example, a strategy for developing biofuels, non-traditional fuels. But there is very little attention given to biofuels in one part. The Socialist MPs took an active part in the preparations, you know, and Ivan Sidorovich Boki, and I took part, and we in the working group are working under Alexander Moroz's headship, and can't we, let's say, we need to learn to work out this order of the Cabinet of Ministers to make this position more clearly defined in this direction by the Cabinet of Ministers?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u63	I hope that this contribution and the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the adoption of this bill are, as nothing else, expansion and attention, and the need to address this particular issue — development, circulation, consumption of biological fuels, because this is the best resource of Ukraine, having such beautiful land, having enough raw materials to produce biofuels that do not affect Ukraine's food security, makes it possible not only to improve Ukraine's independence from imports but also to export these fuels to the world market.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u64	Thank you. Have a seat, please. How does Pashinski’s deputy feel about this? He's already said it, I think. Wait a minute, wait a minute. And Klimec Pavel Anatoliyovich also expressed Grigory Mikolayovich’s position on these two projects, so this is an interesting opinion of the agrarian committee. And report to the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Agrarian Policy Committee, the Land Relations Committee, has twice considered this problem in its meetings, this bill, given that it is extremely important for the people's economy and for the resolution of these six global issues that the rapporteur has just heard. A short history of the problem in Ukraine. 10 years ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Alternative Energy Act, 9 years ago, on alternative types of liquid and gas fuel. But we've moved in the direction of solving this problem, as we can see, we're barely. At a time when Europe is already producing tens of millions of tons of biodepleted fuel and is very active. Now the United States is operating and has an 80 per cent programme by 2012 to produce energy from non-traditional sources and to preserve all the land and to give additional profits to farmers at $35 billion a year, that's what we discussed on the direct television bridge -- we, the National Deputies -- with the senators of the United States. Over the years, Ukraine has grown to nearly 900,000 acres [30,000 ha] of rape crops this year. It's serious. This is already the start when we have to adopt such a law and give all the opportunities to the state, the business, the investment to make such a production. If Ukraine were to sow, and it was possible, on a woodchopper and especially on a Polissa, 3 million hectares of oil crops, including primarily rape, it would be 9 million tons of rapeseed or 3.5 million biodepleted fuel, or 100 percent of the need for an agro-industrial complex per year. If it is more popular and important, society and the white world have long learned to give energy to the living organism, to the stomach, and to the animal. And today's science and technology revolution has given us the opportunity to adapt agricultural production, industrial production to the system to learn and to give energy not only to the stomach of a human, animal, but also to the gas tank of a car, tractor and so on. Here's the principle position. And the best thing, and the most convenient thing, is that Ukraine can do this because it has enough land resources and enough quality land resources, and the whole world knows about it. So we're this bill, I don't want to go into detail, I just want to ask respectably and the Ministry of Economics first, the Ministry of Finance, to ask the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to see how these few percent are mixed, each year scaled up, that this is a state-wide issue. It is only from this very agro-industrial complex and therefore the main singer of this bill that the committee and representatives of the Committee on Agricultural Relations and Land Resources will be involved in the turnover of at least 3 million hectares. And in these millions of hectares, we're going to have to produce a competitive product that's profitable. And the northern and western parts of agriculture in our country will get a big start and good profits, and so we'll solve a whole range of problems that we have today, including energy at the top. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u66	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's see what the Ministry of Finance thinks about this. Aunt Ivanovna Jefimenko, please. Grigory Mikolaiovich. I think they sat there for nothing, and the information will be positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! We believe that the draft law requires substantial reform because, first of all, it is necessary to bring the provisions of this draft law into line with the norms that are governed by the European Community directives. This is true of both biofuels, and it also applies to subcontractive products. Secondly, it is necessary to bring the rules of this legislation into line with the rules of existing legislation, and I will not list these laws, but there are several differences. Overall, in 2007, support for the production of alternative fuels in Ukraine amounts to 1.5 billion dollars. That's why we think that everything about tax legislation needs to be translated into the Tax Code, which the government is submitting next week to the Supreme Council as separate tax laws and thus taking into account everything that is proposed for taxation from 01.01.2008. In general, what is involved in tax legislation also needs to be brought to the standards that we today want to achieve. This is true of the European Community’s tax-added tax directives, international treaties relating to entry duties, as well as some income tax benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u68	Thank you. It is you who support the first reading, the work that takes into account your comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u69	But we ask, we insist on taking our comments into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u70	Right. Are they willing to comment on the content of the law? Yes. Please sign in. First from factions, if necessary. Now there's someone else who wants to make a statement. Well, you don't have to waste time with this. But, if you wish, please. Chechetov has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u71	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! We're looking at a very important draft of Project 3158, which was developed by National Deputy Gregory Kaletnik. It is proposed that mechanisms be put in place to stimulate the production, implementation, processing and sale of biofuels to end consumers. For the time being, the aim of State support for the expansion of the biofuel market is that the bill provides for the possibility of extensive use of biofuels by oil and other industries in the production of mixed fuels according to the mandatory standards. Similar measures in the form of mandatory use of biofuels in EU countries, as a percentage of 2 per cent in 2005 and 5.75 per cent in 2010 biofuels up to the total quantity of fuels for transport have been provided by EU directives since 2003. It should be emphasized that the bill itself is an appropriate and long-awaited act, which should be promoted both by expanding the power of existing enterprises and by obtaining additional markets. I agree that from the deputy minister of finance, there are really some points, some moments in the bill that need to be worked out for the second reading, and today I propose to accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Zybenko. Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich instead of Zibenko. Please. From the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u73	Tuckenko, the Communist Party faction. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! Looking ahead and at the strategy of this issue, we know that there are three main directions: first is food; second is energy; and third is science, whatever the political system in the state is. Today we're looking at one of the strategic lines, this is energy. I was a participant when Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz held a preparatory session. And I think that in recent years of State independence is one of the fundamental issues that we're looking at here in the session room. Ukraine's need for this strategic raw material is a minimum of 40 million tons. Today, Ukraine is producing light and transporting between 12 and 14 million. But the need for an agro-industrial complex is 8 to 10 million. The possibilities of a raw base, for which the reporter spoke, are certainly large: one fuel and one biofuel. But, dear friends, we broke up in Ukraine with the support of 192 sugar factories. We had 98 liquor stores. We have a historic opportunity and we're going to carry out a state mission -- to get these enterprises back to production, and there are huge labor teams, engineering and technical personnel. We have a huge raw material base. And today we're more comfortable not to sell and boast that we're selling 10 or 12 million tons of grain abroad, so we're exporting, we need to process it. A ton of grain gives 330 kilograms of alcohol. A ton of raps gives almost 300 kilograms of butter -- that's colossal money, that's a colossal budget of the state. And I think if we have a price of gasoline above one dollar today, if we put it on a state basis, and we have to dictate that we should adopt a state programme. It's not just to do it a little bit stale, but a government program, create a state committee, put it into a budget, select specialists, and at least for ten years, to make it a really state program, we can produce at least 10-12 tons of biofuel and biotenel. We're going to be the first state in the world that can do this on this scale. So I'd like to support this bill in the first reading, and I'd like to work it out, and I'd like to put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u74	Thank you. Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich. Behind him is Baraniovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u75	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to address the villagers from this rostrum of Parliament. Of course, the issue that the working group is working on today under the leadership of Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz is a serious step towards the future of our Ukraine, it is a practical solution to Ukraine's vital energy security. Of course, the position expressed by the representatives of Minfin, from the Cabinet of Ministers, is the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Socialist Party faction, the MPs who worked on this bill and the working group, will support it in the first reading. Of course, it will have to be worked out and accepted and given to the President for signature in order to be able to see again, and who today is solving the problems that Ukraine needs. You know that Ivan Sidorovich Boki in the working group went to the United States to study the experience. There is much foreign experience in this direction. I think so. And I'm sure we've chosen the right path. And, of course, the warnings I've been giving to Kaletnik's colleagues about the position of the Cabinet of Ministers need to be reviewed, the position must be strengthened, which means, at the disposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, that regarding Ukraine's energy strategy until 2030, where section 7.3 “Possibility of developing non-traditional renewable energy sources” strengthens the position of bioethanol and biofuels. And then, of course, this will allow a faster pace to accelerate this work in Ukraine. Next. I would like to say that this work was deliberately started by the minister when Alexander Petrovich Baraniowski was working, and the program in that direction was considered seriously. And I wanted to say that today the Ministry of the APC is going the way it was done on, let's say, when it was run by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Alexander Petrovich. The following question. Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko spoke about the destruction of the land. Today, it is estimated that some 14 million Ukrainian lands are not to be processed. This will allow us to bring our Ukrainian lands into circulation after all. This is going to give farmers the opportunity and the wages, and eventually it's going to cost the fuel that an agro-industry complex really needs today, and not only. I believe that the first reading requires the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u76	Barani's Alexander Petrovich. Behind him, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u77	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'd like to say, my dear colleagues, more attention to the production of biodiesel. If you take Germany, France, they use 12 percent of the grill for rape, 12 percent. We, with 32 million acres [32 million ha] of roller coasters, had been 34 years ago, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Even if 10 percent, roughly counting, of re-profiling is 6 million hectares, sorry 3 million hectares. 2 tons per hectare is not a problem, it's 6 million tons or it's 2 million tons of diesel fuel, biodiesel, which is renewable, and which is environmentally clean. [[the yield of the rape]] That is, we can provide our own fuel with virtually agriculture, sowing or harvesting. What's more, rape today is an extremely fine competitor of the sunflower, and it's in the Polish Economic Zone, it even feels better today, not just in Poland, but in Central Ukraine, but the sunflower in the South and the East. I would like to say that in 2005 and 2006, we increased the production of 90 grand in just two seasons. Ton of up to 700,000. tons. So you can double it every year if you take this problem seriously. And that problem today that we already have rape and we're exporting 100 percent of it, it's making people think about this raw material being processed and produced in Ukraine. But what must be taken into account? If a barrel of oil costs less than $60, then biodiesel is not competitive oil, it is absolutely, more loyal to the solar system. So there should be incentives that are appropriate: they're incentives to grow rape, they're incentives to produce biodiesel and to sell it. What about bioethanol? In a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that was adopted in the past year, 34 liquor factories were scheduled to be reproved for the production of bioethanol. Three or four million dollars is needed to put up a high molecular. It's a job to do. In my opinion, we need to make a legislative provision for these factories today. I'll tell you why it's legislative. To make it clear, to put it out of the alcohol industry as a whole, to create, as possible, a union of bioethanol production, or perhaps even better to sell it, and business will invest its resources accordingly, to secure that they will not be able to produce other products, such as alcohol and so forth. And I'm sure this job could move very quickly. Sugar stopped being our main food. Sugar is now the main source of bioethanol. And here, more than ever, the development of the beet sugar sector is also the processing of molasses and the same sugar, and we're talking about grain here. I wouldn't want you and me to get rid of the oil traders' interests. They're going to be a huge obstacle to these laws, and we have to be willing to stand by, put this in place, and that's what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u78	Thank you. Melnik Petr Volodymyrovich. As long as he's speaking, don't turn it on yet. I'm addressing the deputies: obviously after this question that we're going to consider, we have a few more speakers and a decision-making, we're the other questions in time for the morning meeting, we can't reach, but there would be a request that we make two decisions about the 1100th anniversary of Czernigov and the 975th anniversary of the city of Boguslav. These are short documents. But we'll find an opportunity to speak. discuss other issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u79	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. The bill proposes to remove the term “bioethanol”, which is set out in article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, equine and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. The bill also proposes exemption from tax on biofuels for 10 years to be produced in Ukraine. At the same time, according to the European Parliament and Council Directive of 8 May 2003 on promoting the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels for transport, biofuels are considered biofuels that have been made entirely from biological raw materials or contain a significant percentage of bioethanol. In particular, biofuels include ethylterhthiobutyl ether, produced on the basis of bioethanol, which should contain at least 47 percent of the volume. Only such biofuels are exempt from taxation. In addition, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on excise duty and import duties on certain goods, products and to replace excise duty rates that have not yet been introduced. The bill proposes to establish a new type of excise duty rate for petrol and motor blends, which contain biofuels such as bioethanol and ethyltredibutyl ester, which is calculated according to their content, which is not currently in place by law. Moreover, certain rates of excise duty would require control of biofuels in mixed gasoline produced, which is virtually impossible to achieve, since petrol production is not licensed. This may lead to tax evasion and tax evasion from the excise collection for such products, so it is proposed to introduce tax markings, as provided for in the EU Council Directive of 27 November 1995. Article 15 of the bill also defines offences in the field of production and consumption of biofuels. But Article 16 does not impose specific financial sanctions in the form of fines. Thus, if this bill is adopted, it can lead to an increase in the shadow circulation of counterfeit alcoholic beverages and a decrease in income tax revenues. He needs work, of course, but as far as I can see, the thought tends to be accepted in the first reading. You can accept it, but it needs tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u80	Thank you. Instead of Bronnikov Jankowski speaking. And Stepanovich Bulba seems to be refusing the speech, I understand? Oh, no? Then you'll be performing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u81	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the importance of this bill today is difficult to overestimate. I will even say more: that we are already behind this bill and today, of course, we will have to catch up with both Europe and the United States of America, and South America, in particular Brazil, where virtually all road transport has been transferred to bioethanol. I would like to think that, after the adoption of the bill, we have much work to do to implement these factories, as there are now 60 factories in Europe, 40 of them bioethanol, 60 of them biodiesel. And we need to think about attracting all forms of property to address this critical problem for the agrarian sector, for industry as a whole. Because bioethanol can be a viable commodity for the chemical industry, for the same polyethylene, for that polystyrene, which then goes as energy saving material in the construction of housing and manufacturing buildings. It is the expansion of the scope of the programme that will enable us to deal with this problem in real terms. I would ask that we take second reading into account those comments to attract more industries, biotechnology companies, so that we can organize whole bioethanol clusters and reprocessing them. This is also essential today because many financial organizations are already prepared to finance industrial enterprises that will participate in this under sufficiently favourable conditions. In particular, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other financial institutions of the European Union and the world financial system. Therefore, in general support of the draft law on first reading, I would like to propose that we take a closer look at all the proposals that will be submitted to second reading and have taken into account in order to effectively address the issue of alternative fuels and to seriously increase the growth of the Ukrainian economy through the integrated processing of agrarian and bioethanol raw materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u82	Thank you, Mikolo Andryovich. Stepan Bulba has the word. He asked for a minute because he has a message that is very important for the drafting of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u83	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. During our visit to the United States, we told the American agrarians that Ukraine has great opportunities to grow corn, except for everything else, and we are now growing it very much. And when we reported that about 10 million tons a year we collect corn, they smiled delicately. Then we found out why. Because they grow 600 million tons of corn a year. At the same time, 42 percent of the areas are under corn and all of this is because corn is an extremely technological and extremely important culture that generates profits. And even though it is convenient for them to export it, since 2000, the United States has essentially halted the increase in exports. That's because they're turning corn into bioethanol, solving the energy security of a huge country. Judge for yourself, one gallon of bioethanol made of corn is worth $1.5 cents, while gasoline is worth $2 and a half. Now we're talking about whether we need to adopt such a law, whether we need to eventually, by studying and using the experience of this country, adopt this law, and arrange for us to produce mixed gasoline based on bioethanols. I'm sure it's necessary. Another piece of evidence. Of course, we could grow more corn. For example, in 2005, Poland grew about 1 million tons of corn. But then it was found that it is not as beneficial as a culture, for our animals, which would be the consumer of corn, are in decline, for other possibilities are virtually not used, with the exception of not entirely effective sales abroad. And so we should certainly see that there are shortcomings in this bill. But there is a huge prospect. And that's why I propose the law to be adopted in the first reading by working on it so that we can finally get serious about solving the problem of energy security at the expense of our own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u84	Thank you. This important issue has been discussed. Let's define ourselves now. There's only two words I'd like to say. It's so important, it's such a complex problem that you just feel excited. We are at the start of a strategic problem of colossal importance for Ukraine. It is clear that a quality law should be prepared for the second reading, but it is also clear that this should be reflected in a government programme that all biofuel production should anticipate. And I am convinced that this will be the breakthrough that will allow Ukraine to be anchored in key positions in the world economy. That's why we're taking part in a historic decision right now, I think. I'm voting on a draft law to adopt it in the first reading. [[11:46:41]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you so much for such activity. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements is under consideration. Reported by national deputy Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich. Please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! You are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements. The Treaty and Product Distribution Act adopted by the Supreme Council back in 1999 created preconditions for involving large-scale investment, drug use in Ukraine on the basis of a widely defined mechanism in international practice that ensures a proper balance of interests for both the host State and investors. I would like to remind you that in the last decade in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation has implemented multibillion-billion-dollar oil and gas projects on a sea shelf on a dream distribution contract with leading world oil and gas companies. The holding by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the first open competition on the rights of exploration and production of hydrocarbons under the terms of the Agreement on the Distribution of Produce and further negotiations on the content of the Agreement have shown that domestic legislation needs further improvement. The first cluster of problems concerns projects on the Black Sea deep-sea shelf, which is outside Ukraine’s territorial waters. In particular, the bill states that the parties to the Agreement on the Distribution of Produce on the Deep Sea Shelf are the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and an investor, because local self-government has no jurisdiction and such, in such areas as these. An absolutely absurd situation arises with the possible supply of extracted oil from a floating platform, which is the customs territory of Ukraine, to Ukrainian ports. According to the rules in force, these Ukrainian hydrocarbons, including the part of the State, should be formed as imports with payment of import duties and VAT. The second block of problems relates to the characteristics of taxation. In the execution of the distribution agreements, many transactions are made through the free transfer of the output and equipment between the parties to the contract. This applies, for example, to the transfer by the State of a compensatory portion of the proceeds, to the transfer by the investor of a portion of the hydrocarbons within the framework, to the payment of taxes in natural form, to the transfer by the investor of the ownership of the property, the cost of which is compensated by the compensatory product, and so on. Current legislation requires VAT payment in these operations. Both necessary and changes in legislation regarding the procedure for granting the investor the permits and licences necessary for the execution of the contracts and the distribution of products. For several years, we have established an auction order to issue a special permit for the use of nadrama. However, it simply cannot be applied to an investor who wins an open tender for the right to exploration and mining of useful fossils in a specific area. In the event of an agreement on the distribution of produce with the Cabinet of Ministers, he has a special permit without the necessary auction procedure. Hydrocarbon mining operations on the deep - water shelf refer to objects of increased danger. It is therefore very important to clarify the procedures for issuing permits and carrying out controls. The proposed changes to existing legislation cover all existing springs that release the investor from obtaining the specified permits and, accordingly, state control over the operation of high - risk objects. The structure of the proposed bill provides for changes to both the contract and distribution laws and additions to other laws with a view to eliminating conflicts between active acts of law. Please support this bill in the first reading. His preparations for second reading will take into account the comments made during the committee discussions and the proposals made by the Scientific and Expert Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u86	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat. Please. He has the floor from the Committee on Economic Policy, the head of the Committee of Jury Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill was reviewed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy on 21 March this year and the Committee recommends its support. That's why. The current law has very many white spots, and it has many contradictions with other Ukrainian legislation. These white marks are removed in this law. For example, the current law does not very clearly distinguish the powers of the central authorities and distinguish local authorities from, say, the development of a maritime economic zone in Ukraine. In addition, account has been taken of the conflict that has arisen since 1999 with regard to amendments to the Licensing Act, the Law on the Development of Brass and a number of other laws of Ukraine. Contraventions are being addressed and problems now arise, for example, because any investor working in Ukraine's maritime economic zone and by obtaining products compensates for its costs, he is obliged under this law to give to the State all the equipment that he uses, which he has imported into the country, free of charge. However, the law does not eliminate contradictions in relation to that. Well, you have to pay that investor's taxes on the same equipment that gives a gift to the State. That's not quite right. At the same time, when considering the law, the committee drew the attention of the drafters to the fact that there were very many comments to it. In the conclusion of the Chief Expert Office, which also recommends that it be adopted on first reading, but also recommends that a number of issues that exist in the bill be further developed before the second reading. As a representative of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I participated together in a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on the bill, and we have a common position that all the tax rules of the bill require further processing, further correction. As you know, a special working group is currently being established at Kabmin, which is working on the preparation of the new Ukrainian Tax Code. Thus, our common position is that the rules that apply here to any taxes, any taxes, any excise duties should be imposed in accordance with the draft new Tax Code. In the new Ukrainian Tax Code, all taxes on transactions, by contract, on the distribution of products are allocated to a separate chapter. In this regard, the bill needs to be redrafted before the second reading. The general position of the Committee of the Supreme Council is that it should be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u88	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Aunt Ivanovna Jefimenko, the deputy minister of finance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! In addition to introducing the standards proposed for taxation in such matters, bringing them into the norms of European society and bringing them into the Tax Code, we also propose to consider these norms, which are set out in article 25 of this draft law. They apply to payments to the budget. According to article 50 of the Code of Budgets, all payments should be made solely in monetary form. Therefore, we should consider and bring to the appropriate budgetary legislation the rules on payment of the corresponding liabilities only in monetary form. We also have observations concerning the unilateral increase in the economic and legal advantages of the investor, which in our view will have a negative impact on the economic benefits of the State from the implementation of the distribution agreements. In fact, we have a common view with the authors that the norms of this legislation need to be substantially revised and we support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u90	Who would like to make a statement is the need? None. So there is a proposal to support this project in the first reading, taking into account the position of the committee, the expert board and the Cabinet of Ministers. Please. [[11:56:05]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. As we agreed with you, we need to consider two decrees: the draft Decree on the State level of the 1100th anniversary of Montenegro and 975th anniversary of the city of Boguslav. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of these two issues. And the Young Guard, yes, the third question is marking. [[11:56:44]] Thank you, 246 – “yes”. At the 1100th anniversary of Czernigov, the people's deputy asked for a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u91	Actually, there's nothing to report. If you don't mind, I'll put you in for a while. The draft decision is to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers develop and approve a plan of action to mark this remarkable date, I would say, for our entire state, because this is our story, both ancient and modern. Set aside the costs needed to do so and deal with the problem seriously. That's why I'm putting a 3167 vote on her registration number. Please identify yourself. [[11:57:48]] For 252 Similar content and determination regarding the city of Boguslav, which will mark 975 years this year, registration number 3234. I met the mayor of Boguslav, the head of the district council, and, in fact, they had very modest requests. The government can look at all these things, but it just has to weigh, because we don't have a lot of cities that have this famous history. Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. [[11:58:30.]] For 255 Decision taken. And there's a draft decision by the deputy of the Borschev Viktor Valentinovich and the deputy head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Mr. Boldirev, to mark the 65th anniversary of the creation of the underground youth organization Youth Guard. The document is as small, it makes recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministers appropriate, but the main idea of this document is not to lose your history, not to forget your history. That's how I understand him. So if you don't mind, I'll put this ruling to the vote. Please. 3229 registration number. [[11:59:26]] And I'd like to ask you, honourable deputies. 257, in favor, the decision is made. There is also a draft decree to honor the memory of renowned Ukrainian and Russian writer Mark Vovczek. [[Mary of Alexander the Vilinski]] It would have been right if we had not forgotten to include the day in order and vote in favour. I am putting to the vote the question of including in the order of the day of this ruling. She taught us all at school. I think so. [[12:00:03]] For 255 I am voting on the draft Decree 3097, which provides for a century after the birth of an outstanding writer. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:00:29]] For 254 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions, the Party of the Regions and the Soccer, are requesting a recess for half an hour. But this can be replaced by a performance by their representative, Baranowski. He's asking for words. Please, let's give it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u92	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been hearing from the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Tushka for days about the state of affairs in this department. We were impressed by the figures that showed the actual level of crime, the exterminated management of various MIF chains, the appointment of people with no practical experience, and often with a questionable reputation. Unfortunately, in certain areas, this practice is not stopped, but it is reversed. A year ago, Colonel Bedrijakovsky Vladimir Volodymyrovic, a close friend of then’s minister Lucenk, was appointed to serve as Head of the U.M.S. As Mr. Bedrayakovsky had no practical management experience and what became difficult to issue was the President’s decree of appointment, the minister first assigned him to the task manager and four months later to the chief. Two months later, Mr. Bedrjakovsky was not known for which he was appointed general. During his annual leadership, Mr. Bedrjakovsky was virtually exterminated by better staff members of the district and district police. The new leaders are assigned, not to professional training, but to the personal loyalty of Mr. Bedriakovsky. First of all, police officers are released who have been careless about expressing their support for the ruling coalition today in private conversations. During the year of his leadership, Mr. Bedrjakovsky released more than 30 people — better managers — from the militia. Among them is Samarski, the first Deputy Head of UMBS, Balabanov, Deputy Chief of UMBS, Serdega, Head of UBZ, Hapchuk, Head of the Civil Registration Department, Consevich, First Deputy Chief of Investigations, Polov, Deputy Chief of UBZ, Shkabara, First Deputy Head of the DAI Administration, Starova, Deputy Chief of the Department of Human Trafficking. And the list can be continued. Of the 24 districts in the area, 10 were replaced by police district officials and their deputies. At present, the question of the release of five other police commanders is raised: People, Wonderland, Poppolna, Korstoszewski and Radomiži district. At the same time, I pay attention to reports on the transfer of the service to other areas: Chief of Special Branch Koseljkov, Deputy Head of the Department of Economic Crimes of Chrubus, Chief of MREO at DAI Chulsky, Deputy Chief of the Department of Operational Technical Security of Shepelev had to file an application for release from the police of the Head of the Department of State Combating the Economic Crimes of Yakimczuk. In preparing new layoffs, General Berdakovsky, for three months this year, with gross violations of the disciplinary statute of the internal affairs authorities, imposed an indemnity to the incomplete office of his own deputies, Marchevski, Kamenno, Dokimczuk, the chief of DAI Grishchuk. At that time, senior officials were appointed to compromise themselves in previous places of service. Such a police personnel breakdown, Zitomirskin did not know about his entire history. And in any other area of Ukraine, you will not find such insolence. I understand Minister Tsush, how difficult he is right now. I understand that in this short term, he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u93	Let us finish, for the surnames are very difficult until he pronounces all and posts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u94	I understand Minister Tsush, how difficult he is right now. I understand that in this short term, that he is the minister of internal affairs, it is difficult or impossible to bring the system down. But I ask you, Your Honor Vassil Petrovich, to carry out the liberation of Žitomirščina from such woeful leaders as Berdakovsky. The U.S. Navy believes you and looks forward to your decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-12-m0.u95	On this optimistic note, we will conclude this morning's meeting. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., the session will resume its work. Thank you. The meeting shall be closed.
