ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, executive authorities, journalists, radio and television audiences! Today, 23 times yes? March 23rd. I ask you to prepare for the registration of the deputies. Andrew! Andrew, come in, don't be afraid. A roll call is being made. Please. [[10:04:30]] There are 256 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. I make an announcement on the basis of the personal statements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Kovtunka Aleksandra Volodimirovich, Nadoši Olega Volodimirovich, Tkačenka Vladimir Vladimirovich, Polišček Sergija Volodymirovich, Jedina Alexandra Josephovich, members of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, as well as Skriblak Anatoliy Vasilovich, Gnatenka Lviv Mikolajovich, Gurejeva Vasil Mikolajovich, Leščnik Viktor Mikolajovich, Mother of Vitalia Ivanovic, Feduna Alexija Leonidovic, members of the Deputate “Our Ukraine” - their membership in the National Unity Coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But obviously before that, I would have to explain what the National Unity Coalition is. Two factions: socialists and communists -- they ask for a break for half an hour or a word. I think it's better to give my word than to stop doing it for the time being. And so to make a statement, the word is given to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. On behalf of the coalition, I would like to inform you that this morning there were congregations of the Anti-Crist Coalition that discussed the content of our work. So I would like to inform you of our coalition's decision and statement. Statement by the Antichrist Coalition in the Fifth Council. Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! We, the national deputies of Ukraine, are members of the Antichrist Coalition of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call for a qualitatively new level of activity. We have come across an uncomplicated path from immediate anti-crisis to developing a strategy for deep social and economic reforms in Ukraine. The establishment of the Anti-Crist Coalition Parliament has become the only and real factor in overcoming the acute political and economic crisis that our society has experienced since the 2004 presidential and 2006 parliamentary elections. The Anticrisis Coalition was able to form a professional and responsible government that demonstrated decisive, pragmatic steps on the way out of negative phenomena without allowing the country to fall into chaos and lose its leadership. We've managed to put in place a real social protection mechanism for citizens, a minimum wage increase and a pension. Today, we face an equally important challenge: to ensure a stable economic growth that will enable effective social policies. This requires a shift from tactical issues and overcoming inherited problems to the development and implementation of strategic goals and priorities of public policy, which are called upon to increase the well-being of the people and to consolidate all branches of government. It is for the implementation of these responsibilities and for the further work of the coalition to be done. Given that the most important expectation of society is concerted action by the authorities, we will form effective models of interaction and cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine. With our primary priority, we aim to unite the entire Ukrainian people on the path of development and progress on the basis of national unity. And as a result, we are proclaiming the name of the Anti-Crist Coalition as the Coalition of National Unity. Our further practical steps will be based on a specific programming and target method for managing and preparing and implementing medium-term plans. We are in favour of establishing a civilized relationship between the government and the people of Ukraine, which should be based on a constant constructive dialogue and a reasonable political compromise. Together we will conquer poverty; together we will conquer destruction. The National Unity Coalition is open to cooperation with all the political forces in Parliament and the people’s defenders, united by the national idea of building a sovereign, democratic, social Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u3	Thank you. On Friday we have 30 minutes to ask questions, announcements, and so forth. But in view of the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister are present here, I ask your approval to consider first the matter that the Prime Minister will be present, and then to return to the statements and use of the time provided for in the Rules. That's how I see it. Please, Victor Fedorovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u4	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am submitting the application for the release of Polishman Yuri Volodymyrovich from the post of Minister of Health of Ukraine in connection with the transition to another job. Thank you for your attention. If there's a question, I'm ready to give you an answer. Is Yuri Volodymyrovich sitting next to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u5	Dear Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national MPs, the committee has considered this question and I want to say a few words on this occasion. Yuri Volodymyrovich Polachenko is a professional, a doctor of science. He worked conscientiously in the exercise of the principle of professionalism itself, not focusing on any political situation or political influence. I believe that this is exactly the kind of work that should be in the ministry, especially in order to take care of the health of all people. So he sees himself better, perhaps as a specialist, as a scientist in the leadership of one of the scientific centers of medicine. And I think we would have made the right decision if we had satisfied his claim and thanked him for his conscientious work of professionalizing our duties, of humanity, of intelligence, and of other human good qualities. But before that, I'm going to put a question to the vote -- a draft order for the release of Yuri Volodymyrovich Polachenko as Minister of Health. Registration number 3379. I'll bet. It's about. The content is: “The Supreme Council decides: to release Polachenko Yuri Volodymyrovich from the post of Minister of Health in connection with the transition to another job”. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I'm putting this ruling to the vote. [[10:12:10]] For 249 Once again, I want us to thank Yuri Volodymyrovich, show him our respect with applause, and then take the floor. [[Applause]] The word is given by Yuri Volodymyrovich Polachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u6	I'm out of town. It's okay, isn't it? Dear Victor Fedorovich, Reverend Alexander Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, dear friends! First of all, I want to thank you for your work, and over the last eight months, we have worked with you on new initiatives in the field of health legislation. Actually, I realize that this is a very difficult stage for us, for activity in the field. But given that today is a new political moment in the expansion of the coalition, and you know that I have always been a supporter of the expansion of the coalition, of the broad coalition in order to consolidate all possibilities and societies and professionals in the field of further reform, today is a succession in the new leadership of the Ministry of Health. Deputy Minister Haydayav worked for almost a year and a half in that position. Today it has a completely real situation in the field and is now ready to stabilize the situation in the field by taking new steps -- legislative initiatives on system reform. I've been offered a very serious position, which is to say my dream position. I will put my ideas, my philosophy, into practice to strengthen the scientific base of home medicine and health care. I want to thank you again for your new meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u7	We wish Yuri Volodymyrovich success in that position, and we wish all of you and those who listen to us so that they do not fall for him as patients. Because it is better to have health from nature strong than then to make appropriate adjustments, especially if that is the case with the heart. Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, Prime Minister, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u8	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with part 8 of article 83, paragraph 12, of article 85, part 4 of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and parts 1 and 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I present the application for the appointment of Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, you have documents on your hands that characterize the career path and the professional qualities of the candidate as minister, and we invite him to the rostrum. Please, Victor Fedorovich. You can say, ten minutes, you can speak for half a minute -- your right, you can answer the questions, please. The biography is known to MPs, it's on your hands. Since radio audiences and TV viewers may not know it that way, I can briefly say it. He was an intern doctor from 78 to 82 at the fifth city clinic in Zaporozhye. Then he studied in the office of “urology” in Kiev’s NDI urology and nephrology until the year 84. He was a junior science associate in the department of plastic and renewable urology, a senior scientific associate in the department of plastic and renewable urology of the Kyiv Institute of Urology. For five years he was head of the Urological Department and Deputy Chief Medical Officer at the Kyiv District Hospital. He was a senior scientific associate in the Department of Scientific Accompaniment, Control, and Implementation of Rational and Regional Public Health Reform Programmes of the Ukrainian Institute of Public Health. He was the deputy chief physician in the medical section of the City Hospital for the Disability of the Great National War. He worked as chief physician at Hospital No.14, the chief physician at the Kyiv City Hospital of “Quick Medical Care” for five years. And for a year and a half, he has been working as a deputy minister of health. There is also a corresponding state reward, a suitable candidate for medical sciences. Here's a brief biography of the minister's appointment. Ask yourself a question. Don't you want to ask a question? No questions asked. There's a question for the deputies. Please sign up. Ten minutes, Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u10	Evening, Party of Regions. Yuri Alexandrovich. I'm here. Please tell us that Ukraine is currently purchasing X-ray equipment, many of which are manufacturing Chinese. Tell me, are you going to support the domestic X-ray manufacturer, or are we going to buy cheap and spend money on it all the time?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u11	Your Honor, I thank you for your questions. Without a doubt, the Ministry of Health will purchase only quality equipment, only quality equipment! - famous manufacturers. Naturally, priority will be given to the domestic producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u12	Thank you. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u13	Yuri Alexanderovich, after listening to your biography and your work, we have no doubt that you will work normally, but you know what medicine today. It's not free -- it's just a myth that's free. Because when they go into surgery, they say, give some help to the institute, or the hospital, to someone else. So now we've developed a law, our Social Policy Committee, on health and social insurance. Please tell me your attitude towards health and social insurance, but in such a way that the least vulnerable people, the poor people, do not pay, but do something to make sure that some people actually pay the premiums, and those who are poor can still be protected. Your attitude toward health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u14	Thank you so much for asking. The High Commissioner for National Affairs is currently actively considering this issue, a working group with the Supreme Council Committee on Health, the Ministry of Health, the Cabinet of Ministers. Three bills are now under consideration and the optimal one will be put forward for your consideration. Undoubtedly, poor people should be served free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u15	Free. My beard. Yeah, he did. The pigeon wants to say something. Dove. Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u16	Your Honor, the faction of the company supports your candidacy. Do you know what a difficult situation today has been with medicine in rural areas? I'd like to ask you a question like that. As a minister, as you see your first steps towards developing rural health care, do you have any program and vision of this problem at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u17	Thank you so much for asking. This question is very painful and very relevant. This is one of the priorities that will be in the Ministry of Health's actions is the development of rural medicine. There are programs to do this -- that's first of all. And first of all, we're going to be doing rural medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u18	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u19	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Yuri Aleksandrovich, I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Health will finally be a graduate of the University of Zaporez, one of the best medical universities in Ukraine. Stop these Chinese from grasping the power unconsciously. I have this question of the following character, and I have this question from my colleague Stoyan. There was once such a health minister, a strong Polish motorist, who did all he could to break down and prevent the introduction of a mandatory national social health insurance in Ukraine. You said three bills about which the optimal reserve. I am interested in a specific question: either we are introducing a compulsory social health insurance and we are setting up a fund, or we are giving a fund to someone else — birth and burial, temporary loss of employment — or we are obliged to make it compulsory for private insurance companies. Your point of view: which approach is governmental? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. The great National MP, the revolution, the revolutionary steps are not the best steps, especially in medicine. The most optimal is not a revolutionary path, but perhaps an evolutionary one. And believe me, our main goal is to model medicine with the transition to fiscal medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u21	Nuts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u22	Basil Yaduha, faction of the Party of the Regions, Hmelnicki. Dear Yuri Alexanderovich, I think we all know the general situation in the field of medicine. After all, statistics from the Ministry of Health have shown thousands of people lacking enough to work in this field. And I hope that you, despite the fact that the government is working on improvement, will say the social situation of this sector, the increase in wages, you will continue to make every effort to increase the level of pay for health workers, because it alone will not be the best. And I have a question for you. What is your personal view of some of the proposed laws regarding the granting of public service status to medical personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. A distinguished national MP, believe me, you've seen from my biography, I've been working, it's said, in acute medicine. As far as I can remember, I operated and worked all my life in the Kyiv district hospital and in the Hospital of Emergency Care. And if you saw the hard work these people are doing for this salary, you know, I would support what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u24	Thank you. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u25	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Catherine Samuel Dear Yuri Alexanderovich, and I would like to address Yuri Vladimirovich like this, in general it is very rare in this room that the predecessor spoke good words to his successor. And we are pleased that Yuri Volodymyrovich spoke very nice words to your address. And I think that, of course, plays a role in voting you as the minister of health. Yuri Aleksandrovich, one question I'm interested in is the question of rural medicine. You know what happens to it, you know, in thousands of locations where there's no medical staff at all and all that. Please tell me, do you not think that perhaps on the time of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine to adopt a special national program for the restoration of rural medicine? Because without a village there can be no Ukraine, without a village there can be no Ukrainian people. How Would You Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. I've already said that the development of rural medicine is our priority. And what you said, you know, better than you just said, I can hardly answer. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u27	Instead of Herasim’s boyfriend, he asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u28	Thank you. Gerasimov, the Communist faction. Yuri Alexandrovich, I have two questions for you. First question: The Veteran Status Act, adopted in 93, and guarantees of their protection, was adopted that medicines for veterans should be released free of charge. This is not being done. And the second question. The only hospital that did eye surgery for free in Odessa and only for the Odessa region veterans, once a national hospital and did everything. The Council of Veterans has asked this question on several occasions, so far the issue has not been resolved to ensure that the hospital does operations for all veterans free of charge. They're worth a lot of money that veterans don't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question. In my biography, too, I worked in a hospital of war invalids, and I know these problems. Well, let's start with the fact that our government, this year, is allocated to the Cyber, you know that very well for the construction of a new structure. This new body stood there for 10 years and no one needed it. This year, money has been allocated to the State budget and this body will be delivered. I've been to many hospitals of war with the disabled in many regions: both Kiev, and Vinnica, and Lviv, I can count a lot. Believe me, the food and medical regulations are going to be there, 15 and 16 bracelets, and I've been looking at it myself. With regard to the Odessa Hospital, I would like to have this matter resolved with me as a matter of practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Sulkowski. Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry, please. This is the head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u31	Dear Yuri Aleksandrovic, there are many issues today that show that there are many health problems that today require a change in public health policy. This is, of course, the most important of all, the lack of a clear strategy for the development of the industry and the legal and regulatory framework, which will allow only health care to be brought to a new level that is capable of meeting the health needs of Ukrainian citizens. The work of the Ministry of Health, together with the Committee, has indeed begun and is under way in this regard. And I would like to hear your words of confidence that the continuity that has been with Yuri Vladimirović and the Ministry of Health and the Committee will continue to improve the health sector. Thank you. As a professional, I wish you success in a very important and very responsible job.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u32	Thank you very much, Tatiana Dmitrievna. Trust me, the priorities set by the government are inviolable. And I am grateful to Yuri Vladimirovic for his work together, and I am confident that the reforms that have begun will continue and be successfully completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u33	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, have a seat. Victor Mikolayovich, what does the committee think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, Reverend Victor Fedorovich! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meeting this morning considered the introduction by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a proposal for the appointment of Mr. Guidjav Yuri Alexanderovich as Minister of Health and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that he appoint Mr. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u35	No questions asked. Have a seat, please. I put to the vote a draft regulation of this content: The Supreme Council decides: firstly, to appoint Mr. Haydav Yuri Alexanderovich as Minister of Health of Ukraine, and secondly, this office takes effect from the time of its adoption. I'll bet you a vote. Please. [[10:30:35]] For 252 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Before Yuri Alexanderovich takes office as minister, he must make an oath. Yuri Alexanderovich! Yuri Alexanderovich! For the time being, you will make an oath, and we will see how clearly you take on the minister’s responsibility. Please. Don't give me that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u36	I, Haydaev Yuri Aleksandrovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding human rights and freedoms, and protecting the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the constant demographic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u37	Thank you. Welcome to Yuri Alexanderovich. Give me an oath, give me an oath. Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u39	Now you have all the rights provided by the law on the Cabinet of Ministers to be a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Once again, on behalf of the deputies, we wish to make progress in this matter, and I would like to draw attention to the questions that have been asked to him in this brief period, already as the minister now, we can consider, especially, the development of rural medicine. I met the heads of the village council in Winnica yesterday, and there were thousands of people. And they're all asking the same question. So it has to be borne in mind that this issue is not only solved by a minister, it's a complex task for the whole government, for the whole state. Because we need housing, we need the medical students to be from the village to go home, so that they can get paid there, maybe higher than in other places and housing, and so on. But in the meantime, we wish you success. And I hope that you will find support in the session room when your proposals for reform of the sector need a legislative escort. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u40	Reverend Victor Fedorovich, the distinguished Alexander Alexander, the distinguished national MPs, let me sincerely thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, for the trust he has shown me in putting me on the post of Minister of Health of Ukraine. I want to thank all of you, distinguished national deputies, for your trust. I understand it's an advance, and I'm sure we'll do a lot of good things together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u41	Thank you. I'm announcing the parliamentary questions that have come. An MP named Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič from Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenka came in. He is obviously not only interested in and concerned about the issue of the city’s attempted construction in the Pecher Stadium district. This topic was well - known in the media, television. The public is torn down by such a thoughtless forgetfulness and is convinced that appropriate areas should be preserved for the rest of the people of Kiev. And obviously this is not just Pecherska, but especially this matter, and it is a matter of concern to many, many people. So I would like to count on both the Prime Minister and the city authorities to intervene in this situation properly and meet the needs of the people of the Pecher region. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. MICHAEL ACCOMMODATED with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Donetsk District Administration, the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the need for urgent measures to be taken to strengthen against the destruction of the coast of the Azov Sea in Donetsk and Zaporez. Jury SERBIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the cessation of explosive work in the territory of the Krolevetsky district of the Suma region of the Scottish National Research Institute of Chemical Products. John BONDARCHUCK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for refusing to provide assistance for the elimination of an exceptional situation on the sewers of the town of Mogilev-Podilski Vinnicky region. Petra Hasukado, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation that arose as a result of the rehabilitation of the Chernobyl airport and the illegal implementation of the three persons assigned to former workers and their families in the building 135-A on the street of Carmeluk in the city of Chernivts. Stepan CAPUCAdo, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of legislation by officials of the Office for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region. He asked the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal actions concerning the authorized tax police of Alexandria of Kirovograd, Alexander Hapchenka. Vladimir TARASOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the existence of economic crime in the management of the limited liability society KSK-Centre, corruption by members of the Desnian District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev and the Prosecutor's Office of the Right-wing District of Kiev, and inappropriate response to the parliamentary address. If you do not respond properly, then you will be given the word for the information of the deputies and the use of the measures in accordance with the current legislation. Kseniya LAPINOY to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the legality of police conduct of a planned screening of the cafe by measuring in a measuring glass two portions of Hennesi cognac and the requirements for reimbursement to militia representatives of the costs for them after the failure to detect violations. It's acnecdotic, of course, an accident, and I think the reaction here should be appropriate. I understand that Xenia Lapina, as a deputy, was concerned about this, and I hope that those who are dealing with this matter need to draw serious conclusions from this anecdotes. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the inclusion of Hospital No. 1 of the city of Dryrkowka Donetske region in the 2007 State Water Drinking Program of Ukraine. Alexia BABURINAdo Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the incomplete review of the parliamentary appeal concerning the claim by Ukrainian citizen Victor Szczerbina that the Constitution of Ukraine is not in conformity with the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act and a number of other legal acts. Ms. Alexander KAMENYA to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the position of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the need for changes in the order of security for persons living in mountain settlements. He, Alexander Kamenyash, is the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the pension insurance of those living in mountain settlements. OSKI’S branch to the head of Ukraine’s Department of Interior in Kiev for the examination of a muddy attitude toward official duties, police officers of the Pechersky District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. OSKI’S Sergei also addressed the head of the Pecher district office of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev to verify the demeanor’s attitude toward the official duties of his employees. Helen BONDARENKO and Catherine LEVČENKO to Kiev City Head for a significant deterioration in the working conditions of the women’s centre on the street of Melnikov, 20 in Kiev. VICTOR SWEDEN to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the legality of the local government's activities by placing a land forest area under construction in the village of Vita Postova Kyivo-Svetoshin district of Kyiv region. We send these questions to the appropriate addressees, and I hope that they will respond to them properly, and we will be able to inform both the national deputies and those who are concerned about the circumstances of the proper response to their needs by the authorities. Let us turn to the issues outlined in the work plan for today. We are planning a preliminary report from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the verification of the situation of natural gas security for Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas, and possible violations of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market. Reported to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska. Ten minutes, Alla Alexandrovna, let Yuri Anatolyovich go. Alla Alexandrovna, you are announced. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u42	I'm sorry, Alexander Alexandrovich. A preliminary report by the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation is provided by natural gas from Ukrainian consumers, natural gas calculations and possible violations of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market. Pursuant to article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 80, 82 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and Order of 3 August 2006, number 72-5 was created by the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation and the provision of natural gas by Ukrainian consumers for the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation on the Ukrainian energy market, in the future, a temporary commission of inquiry. The above-mentioned ruling of the Supreme Council on the composition of the commission was suspended by the National Deputies: Derkac, Zeynalov, Kruc, Rudzkowski, Sovkovic, and the National Deputies: Alexandrovska, Katerinczuk, Kunchenko, Lopushanski. The chairman of the commission instead of the exterminated Ripper was Aleksandrovska, a deputy of the head, Kiselov, instead of the exterminated Sovkovic. The Commission was further instructed to carry out background checks, write-offs of the debts of Ukraine's “Only Energy Systems” and economic activities of the Ukrainian Gas Resource Consortium, which were intermediaries in the gas market. As it is known, the interim commission of inquiry has sent requests for information, documents and materials on issues that constitute the work of the interim commission of inquiry to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Security Council, the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Court of Auditors, the State Property Fund, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and so on. In response to the new assignment, a request was made to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of temporary investigation information to the Commission concerning the investigation of the activities of the “Only Energy Systems of Ukraine” corporation, the full name of a closed shareholding company with foreign investments of the Industrial Finance Corporation “The Only Energy Systems of Ukraine” and the agricultural activities of the Ukrainian Gas Resource Consortium. Taking into account the social significance of the issues raised, the interim commission of inquiry is working on collecting publications in the media, including online publications, and taking them into account for further analysis. Sadly, not all the authorities have responded to our call. Still not fully responding to requests from the interim commission of inquiry from the National Court of Auditors, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the State Tax Administration and others. At this time, there is a considerable amount of material at the disposal of the interim commission of inquiry and everything is done to ensure that the answers come from all those involved in these matters. Recently, explanations have been received about the state of affairs in the gas supply from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The data previously provided by the National MP on the volume of gas produced in Ukraine allow for the conclusion that according to the natural gas balance in Ukraine in 2006, the volume of natural gas of its own production amounted to 20.7 billion cubic metres, of which 19.3 billion cubic metres is the production of the Naftogaz Ukrainian Naftogaz company, including produced as a result of joint activity. 1.4 billion cubic metres is the production of gas-producing enterprises not controlled by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Despite the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 27.12.2001, No. 1729, VAT “Ukrnafta”, beginning in April 2004, refuses to make contracts with NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” for the sale of the company’s own gas for the next settlement, thus causing a gas deficit. [[with Supplements]] Given this amount of gas of its own, which the company implemented in 2006 for the population, taking into account the selection from underground gas shelters, is 14.1 billion cubic meters, with a total need of 18.9 billion cubic meters. The difference of 4.8 billion cubic metres has to be compensated by the resources of imported natural gas, resulting in an increase in the price of gas. It is known that the government has taken steps to reduce the price of gas for the population. As a result, at the marginal wholesale price of NAC Naftogaz Ukrainian natural gas, used for population purposes, 461 bracelets and 38 copies per thousand cubic metres of VAT for 77 per cent of subscribers who consume 40 per cent of the gas in Ukraine have set a minimum price level of 325.23 dollars per thousand cubic metres of VAT. The damage is due to the higher price of gas for those who consume gas on a large scale. Thus, the government is addressing the issue of gas supply to the population, taking into account the interests of the most vulnerable ones. It should be borne in mind that in the data on gas consumption, the population does not take into account the amount of gas used by heat - power enterprises, or gas used for the heating of localities. As the gas balance for these purposes shows, the gas that is being imported is being imported. Thus, a higher price of gas is placed on the heating tariff. Therefore, it cannot be overlooked why the price of gas has risen so much, which is being imported, why NAC Naftogaz Ukraine has found itself in a difficult situation, which has greatly supported low prices for the population so far. It is no secret that, in 2005, the government's management, pulled out of protocol 34 of the Cabinet of Ministers meeting since 11.07.2005; the special commission of Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine since 26.07.2005, number 38615/1-05, based on a meeting of the Prime Minister of Ukraine since 22.07.2005. This government initiated a review of Appendix Four to the contract dated 21.06.2002 on the volume and transit conditions of Russian natural gas in Ukraine in 2003-2013. Despite the repeated NAC’s Naftogaz U.S.U. appeal, Appendix Four is the only document that identifies the price of Russian gas for supplies to Ukraine at $50 per thousand cubic metres. In August 2005, this document was broken down – a separate mission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine since 13.08.2005 number 4306/0/1-05. With regard to the issue that has recently been raised by the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the interim commission of inquiry to examine the grounds for the write-off of the debts of Ukraine's “Only Energy Systems” and the economic activity of the Ukrainian Gas Resource Consortium, which were intermediaries in the gas market, it is important to take into account the great social resonance that has not diminished over the years on this issue. The closure of the activities of the ZAT with foreign investment by the EESO Industrial and Financial Corporation has resulted in a loss by the State of large funds, estimated at 3.7 billion. Infants up to 7.5 billion. That's right. The closure undermines the image of Ukraine in the international arena, as is the question of equality of all before the law -- and of senior officials and, as is said, of ordinary citizens. We therefore consider it necessary to ask the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the legality of the decisions taken regarding the activities of the ZAT with foreign investment of the EESU Industrial Finance Corporation. Report complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u43	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Six minutes to ask. Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u44	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I want to ask the Head this question: don't you think that we're working here, we're trying to set something up, and those who are involved in abuse, including Mrs. Timoshenko, as she didn't answer the question: on what basis did she write down the debts of ESU 7.8 billion dollars at the expense of the state budget? And what do we have to do about it eventually?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u45	Thank you. In fact, this is the task facing our commission of inquiry, the interim commission of inquiry. That is why we propose to the Attorney-General's Office because, upon our request, we have received documents from the Attorney-General's Office that indicate, inter alia, that these cases have been closed for very strange reasons. It was precisely as a result of the closure of these cases that damage and debt were written off at approximately 3.8. Three-and-a-half billion bracelets. Of course, if a court had been held and the court had answered all the questions, the question would certainly have been closed today, but the court had neither proved guilty nor the innocence of the persons you speak of.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u46	Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u47	Alla Alexandrovna, very good report, thank you very much, but you're leaving your last name. You did not say on whose initiative NAC Naftogaz launched negotiations in 2005. Second. On whose initiative was Ukrgazenergo introduced in February 2006, and why was it introduced? There are the initiators of this action. These are officials acting in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Could you name those faces?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u48	Vladimir Konstantinović, I draw your attention to the fact that today's preliminary report and the decision of the Supreme Council continued until August of this year, and it was just yesterday that we considered the list of requests that our commission should make. Among other things, we will be making requests that relate to the establishment of this gas supply scheme, in which the “Rosukrenergo” is the mediator. The fact that the Treaty-Breaking and Review Initiative, in turn, was based on the Government established during the 2004-2005 period is not a secret. We know who the Prime Minister was then. Therefore, we will make inquiries, and I think that perhaps not even in the form of a report here in the hall, but in the form of written statements from our commission, we will send them to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u49	Pomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u50	Alla Alexandrovna, do you see the prospect of lowering the price of gas for the population? This affects the interests of a large number of gas consumers, including the Heatcommunergo. You said in your report that they're consuming gas that wasn't produced in Ukraine. What should we do about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u51	Well, there's two directions here, I think. The first is indeed to consider carefully the calculation of the price of gas that is being produced in Ukraine. And here, in my opinion, are the reserves that have already been mentioned in the Racer report. In particular, significant capital investments in the development of the gas industry are now being invested in the cost of gas delivered to the population. In fact, it is the production costs of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which must be developed. If we take these costs, we will take these capital investments into the public budget as a public programme for financing the development of the industry, then they will have to be excluded from the tariff. This could result in a decrease in the price of gas for the population. That is, it depends on the will of the Government and how we see the prospect. You know, the communists are insisting on public funding for this industry. This will help to reduce the price.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u52	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u53	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Alla Alexandrovna, please tell us if you know anything about investigating the “freaky activity” of the previous NAC leader Naftogaz Ukraine, and, according to the complicity of Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, Alexi Yvchenka, who remembered two things: firstly, the total dissipation of state funds and, in particular, NAK Naftogaz, and the fact that he had the habit of driving only the latest Mercedes models at the expense of taxpayers. [[in quotes]] So what is the stage at which this case is being investigated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u54	Well, we know with you that the report, which was released in October, was sent to the Attorney-General's Office and is being investigated. To be honest, at this point in time, I don't know what stage it is, but this is a topic for our commission that we will be dealing with. However, right now, I mean, right now, we have a letter from the NAC management Naftogaz Ukraine that measures have already been taken by the company to avoid spending the wrong amount of money for which the company is working. The cost-saving activities and, in particular, the examples of how officials were punished within the company itself. So action is being taken, and we will request the Office of the Attorney-General to obtain information on the stage at which this issue is being considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u55	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u57	Okay, please sit down, Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u59	Michael Sivulski, a member of the commission, is of the opinion. Mikola Ivanovich, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u60	No, no, Alexander Alexander, I need at least six.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u61	No, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u62	Well, according to the Rules, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u63	Dear national MPs, honourable chairman, distinguished voters, I'm going to make a separate statement from the members of the interim commission of inquiry who signed them four yesterday and today another signed them. I'll call their names. It's Caterinchuk, Kovtunko, Lopushanski, Sivolski and Kucherenko. The previous substance of our individual opinion, the preliminary report of the interim commission of inquiry, which was prepared by the head of the commission and its individual members, representing the anti-crisis coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was presented to the Commission on 22 March 2007, cannot be supported, since the commission goes beyond the powers defined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 20 February 2007 and demonstrates the desire for the leadership of the commission, individual members of the commission, to turn the commission into a tool of discrimination and compromise of opposition representatives. Instead of considering the urgent problems related to the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers, the analysis of the inactivity and abuse of representatives of the government of Yanukovic, which resulted in speculation on the gas of its own production, which is being sold to the population twice as expensive as the purchase of imported gas in Russia, the commission fabricated its decision and raised today's problems with the issues that relate to the 1995-1996 period of the past century and for which clear decisions have been taken by the courts. The Commission has deliberately not considered the materials of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which has ruled that all DPA charges have been dropped and written off as illegal foams and fines of the JESU ZAT, has not examined the economic activity of the Ukrainian gas transport consortium, but is, for some reason, a completely different structure – a gas-resource consortium. The commission has not investigated the illegal actions of the government of Yanukovic, who not only violated Ukraine’s 2796 law of 15.11.2001, but also five years in advance of Ukraine’s gas balance with more than 5 billion cubic metres each year, by decree 1002 of August 6, 2004. In the run-up to the presidential election, he by decree number 603 of 29 November 2004 allowed the company Rossukre Energo to enter Ukraine's gas market. We find the loss of a temporary commission of inquiry following the renewal of its leadership, the constructive work, the focus on examining the relevant issues of the functioning of the gas market, which today are of concern to society and have already produced concrete results in terms of lowering prices to 339 dollars. And in closing, I want to say the following. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u64	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the commission did not work as an investigator. This report was not reinforced by the consideration of any document. So I think that this report is falsified, that the documents that the reference is referring to have a completely different orientation than that of the commission members and the commission head. And actually, the commission turns from the investigator. - I was happy to work on this committee when I was a Ripper - now I regret to say that it is becoming an organ of political dissuasion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Serious charges against the committee head. The commission, therefore Alla Alexandrovna, take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u67	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, chairman of the interim commission of inquiry. I'm just surprised that we had a meeting yesterday where we discussed the report. Nikolai Ivanovich expressed his “individual opinion”. And unfortunately, I have in my hands a document signed by him and those four deputies who are members of the commission, and the content of that individual opinion is very, very different from what he has just heard from the rostrum. Well, I understand that in the night you can change your position and you can adjust it. You know, the facts that we brought up in our report today are objective facts, there are documents. Nikolai Ivanovich. We only agreed yesterday, not even yesterday, and we agreed a week ago, please, on any documents available, and we just need to come to an agreement when, where, and me and my deputy Kiseleev will be able to meet them. That's why, you know, facts are stubborn, and most of all, they lead to the end of the assessment. We are not a court or an investigation with you here, and the Attorney General's Office should therefore be examined. That's why we have to go there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u68	Right. Wait, you'll take the line. From the faction in the discussion of who wants to participate, please write it down. Only from the faction. Give me 12 minutes. Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u69	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexander, honourable deputies! Lately, in my mail, I've been getting more and more starch letters on one subject, high prices for natural gas, which are being used for the needs of the population. First of all, from the citizens who live in apartment buildings, saving themselves from galloping heat prices. Many of Ternopol’s inhabitants, the district centers of the area, began to separate from the central nomads, to switch to individual inflammation. For forced reconstruction, people had to borrow money, enter into debt, but the cost of payment was always in such a way that the prices were again on the heels of five. I collected such letters and sent them to the National Commission on Electricity Control. They have been studied, analyzed for a long time, and concluded that this is what we call the ‘okay’. The answer I got from this department is, what do those people want? Free gas? It will not be, nor will it continue to overwhelm high thresholds, the souls of the chiefs be shaken, and it has been reported that new prices for natural gas used for the needs of the population have been established since January 1, 2007. And this threshold price per thousand meters of cubic is already 686 dollars, not 461, as reported in the report. This is for the population of natural gas, which is used comprehensively, including for heating in separate apartments separated from the centralized heating system in multi - apartment buildings. The marginal prices are marginal, but it turns out that for those who have no gas counter, they're going to be even higher than these cloudy prices and they're going to be up to 754 bracelets per thousand cubic meters. In response to the national electricity regulation commission, I am most surprised to learn that Mr. Widenko, the head of the commission, writes that the price of 686 dollars was the result of his purchase, at exactly this price from the suppliers of this energy supply. But it is well known that the blue fuel supplied to the population consists of a mixture of gas from its own Ukrainian production and imported gas purchased outside Ukraine. And here's the price of Ukrainian gas, and it's not a secret, much lower than imported gas, and it's produced in Ukraine with less than 21 billion cubic meters. We said somewhere that this gas would go to supply the needs of our population. We've never heard of a commission in the world, how much, in which proportions we're doing gas calculations on our own production and imports today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u70	Thank you. Matthew, please. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich from the Communists instead of Matthew is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u71	Thank you. Cowchenko, Communist faction. Journalists have recently tried to talk about morality in politics. I would like to respond to the statement made by the people's representative of Sivuliski on this issue. I want to say that as long as people like Timoshenko, who wrote down 7.5 billion and now drive three-pound areas, try to lower gas prices and steal 30% of the country's pension fund. Sivuliski, who I think is being released illegally, because we have applied to the prosecutor's office today, Mr. Sivuliski, to let you know, and will be a complement of the fact that the commission today has failed to prove that you have a minimum of negligence and abuse to sit here today, but there, for one reason, that you have allegedly signed documents that you didn't know what you were signing. But everyone sitting here knows what's behind it. Therefore, as long as you and Julia are working together to protect the interests of the people, until our people are protected, our people will be hungry and poor. And our people need to know who's going to see him today. They come in, they collect the show, then the money is counted and they're gone. It's about the commission. I was the initiator of the commission's resumption of work. Mr. Sivulski, I promise you that we will do everything we can to ensure that this commission has both documents, and we have come to the prosecution's office, and we are confident that the prosecutor's office will have a qualified attitude to what we asked them to do, namely to investigate why you are at large today and have not responded for what you did in this consortium. With regard to the work of the Commission, the report of the Commission. Alla Alexandrovna made the commission today as a temporary, will return the preliminary report. And it is possible that the signs that the Commission has set out will be fully implemented. And I have no doubt that this committee will report, in the end, and put an end to these insinuations in the face of what is called opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u72	The word is given by Sivuli Mikola Ivanovich of the Block of Julius Timoshenko, from the faction of the block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u73	Dear voters, you have the opportunity to see once again the truth of what I have already said in this rostrum that the commission has been turned into a tool to fight the opposition. She does not care about the issues that concern everyone today: why gas prices have risen sharply, who is personally responsible for this, why utility prices have risen so sharply. Instead, they're looking for the culprits in just one sector -- the opposition. In this regard, I must say that from this rostrum there should not be a word that is meant to inspire the prosecution or any other law enforcement agency to act. We must act as any other body within the limits established by law. Do you have any papers? Please, come on. And pressure, demand, sorry, you can't do that. Therefore, we invite the Supreme Council to condemn the actions of the management and individual members of the interim commission of inquiry aimed at its use for conjunctural political purposes and to oblige the commission to focus its activities on the topical issues that determine the current situation with the natural gas of Ukrainian consumers. In particular, first, there are guarantees regarding the necessary volumes and contractual prices of imported natural gas for 2007 and the prospect of no threat of possible review. The other one. Verification of compliance with the requirements of current legislation in the signing of the agreement between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, RosUkreenergo and VAT Gazprom from 4 January last year, causing an increase in the price of imported natural gas from $50 to $95 per thousand cubic metres and the availability of legal grounds for its dissolution. Third. Legality of signature by Voronin Igor Pavlovich as the deputy head of the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” on 4 January 2006 of Supplement No. 1 GU06 of 21 June 2002 between NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and OAU “Gazprom” on the volumes and transit conditions of Russian natural gas through Ukraine for the period 2003 to 2013, which legally terminated Appendix 4 to the contract of 9.08.2004, which stipulated the obligation of VAT “Gazprom” to account for the transit services of Russian natural gas in Ukraine with a price of 50 dollars for the period until 1 January 2010. The deal with Russia was broken by the same Voronin that Timothyshenko had kicked out of work and was reinstated after her government resigned. This is the same Voronin who, under the current government of Yanukovic, heads the ZAT “Ukrgazenergo” and also serves as the deputy head of the NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” government. Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u74	I'm asking you to finish. 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u75	In addition, we propose to find out why, in 2006, ZAT Ukrenergo was admitted to Ukraine's gas market and in fact monopolized it by removing NAK Naftogaz, a state-owned company, from the most profitable sector of Ukraine's internal gas market. Other positions are passed on to Alexander Alexandrovich Frost. I hope they find their reflection on the work of the commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u76	Thank you, thank you. The word has Kiselov instead of Yaroschuk, so they agreed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u77	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon, fellow countrymen! First of all, I want to tell my colleague Kravchenko that after the provocation that the prosecution has left Lucenko, I have no confidence that they will respond responsibly to our appeal. And now, essentially. In addition to the information provided by the head of the Alexandrian Commission, I want to say that according to the expertise of about one billion cubic metres of gas of 20 billion. Ukraine’s own production goes to the technical losses and technical needs of the mining companies themselves. The other one. Of the five billion cubes of gas that are produced by Skrnaft, exactly half of us do not belong to us, that's what you mean, of the same 20 billion that are produced in Ukraine. Next question. As Alexandrovska has already said, for the needs of the population today, it takes 19 billion, and I'm paying your attention, 19 billion. We have our profits after what I said, 14 billion. Five billion we have to buy $130 per thousand meters. Another question. To understand that hot water and heat are still needed for the needs of the Heatcommunergo, colleagues, note 14 billion. the gas cubes. And so you can see that the gas balance is going to be 20, and you need 34 for the population to be warm, for the gas and for the utilities, for the gas plate. It's very serious, I'd like you to pay attention to that. And now, colleagues, I would like to say that the question that we are considering today is very responsible and, as we understand today, very delicate. So I would very much ask all the members of the commission who don't go to the commission to go, to go, to participate. And I want to draw your attention to one very serious question. I want to turn you to the ultimatum that the opposition requires one of the points -- to immediately break the agreement with Rosukre Energo, which, by the way, is a child structure of Gazprom. And they write: and stop concluding an agreement with Gazprom.” You heard from the Aleksanderovsky report, which said who and when and why we have to set up, broke the agreement in 2005 with Gazprom, after which the price of two laws half-time for Ukraine for gas increased. So I have a question for all of you for the community. The opposition understands or doesn't understand and could it answer here, how are they in the room, at what price will we have gas if we break the agreement with Gazprom today? Now answering my colleagues ’ questions. Speculation. Thus, the commission will determine that it was EES that would speculate with gas when it bought 19 dollars in Russia and sold 80 dollars. Judgement. None of them have been tried to justify the rings they were wearing. And I ask you all to support Alexander's proposal to take into account her report, our report to the commission, and to continue our work. And I answer to my colleague Bogchuk. Also, I'd like to add 15 seconds. Comrade Bogchuk, I'm sorry I didn't get you a document that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u79	Which was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers on March 8, this year, according to which the decree you were referring to has been rebuttaled by the Cabinet of Ministers. There is no fifth point, which was the price raised, as you call it, to 68 and 75. Everything's back as it was before. Therefore, all who use domestic gas in the individual sector today are paid their old price. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you have a draft decision on your hands. We do. It is clear that we are proposing to continue the work of the Commission, but after the publication of the relevant materials and the Commission's proposals on the answer to the questions put by the Attorney-General's Office, we should receive the answer, so in combination with the gas why it has the price and other questions that concern society today and which are being used speculatively in the political dialogue. political dialogues and various political debates. I think we should put the dots above the "and" in this respect. And so I'm asking you to support a draft decision that's being made by the commission, and let the commission work more actively with the discussions that arise at that point, and we're witnessing this discussion, there, the committee is being considered, not in the sessional room. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. In general. Now. [[11:18:37]] For 238. Decision taken. Mikola Ivanovich Sivuliski, what did you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u81	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I think it's a mistake to take this decision. Explain why. It's proposed that the material -- the previous report -- be sent to the prosecutor's office. Well, we have to respect our law enforcement agencies, especially the Attorney General's Office. There were two sittings on the commission for the new leadership, and no documents were considered. It's not a commission of inquiry, it's not researching anything, Alexandre Alexandrovich. What are we going to send to the Attorney General's office? She should conclude by having the appropriate documents. None of the documents referred to in the previous report were considered. Moreover, there was a requirement for members of the commission, including mine personally, to provide us with these documents. Because, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I know that there's the opposite of what's in those documents that the previous commission of inquiry is putting in. So there's nothing to direct. An empty report that has nothing to stand for, that has no tracking job, concrete results. The documents have to be sent, and they're not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u82	I got it. We should mean that the temporary special commission of inquiry of Parliament is not an investigative body. It does not conduct investigations as the law enforcement authorities do. She doesn't have that kind of authority. And if she is faced with problems she cannot answer, but these answers can be answered by the prosecutor’s office, she is asked: Answer this question. They will then be generalized, attached, and the final conclusions will also be addressed to law enforcement agencies, above all. Because it's not a matter of Parliament to carry out investigations, it's to analyze the materials that are available to it, which can be done at the same level as the members of the temporary special committee. We have made our decision on this point, and we will expect the Office of the Attorney General to answer a particular question professionally. A preliminary report from the interim commission of inquiry on the facts of the violation of the Constitution, Ukrainian laws and the beating of members of the Kiev City Council during the consideration of the replacement of tariffs for utility services at the plenary session of the third session of the Kiev City Council on December 7, 6th, on this subject is reported by the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Boris Jakovic Bespalij. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u83	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the interim commission of inquiry into the violation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the beating of deputies at the plenary meeting of the Kyiv Region on 7 December 2006 elected nine national deputies: Alexander Remaruk, Anatoly Horbatuk, Artem Pshonka - all from the Party of the Regions; Sergey Pasinsky and Alexander Skybinetsky - from the Block of the Yulia Timoshenko; Boris Bespalij, Mikhailo Przyżynov - from the Block of Our Ukraine, Stepan Bulba - from the Socialist Party; Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov - from the Communist Party of Ukraine. The commission was formed on December 15th, “for” 407 votes, and its term of office was set at 6 months. And three months later, the commission should report on the work done during this period. Such a preliminary report, approved at the meeting of the Commission on 13 March: “with” to 8 votes, 1 member of the committee refused to sign the report. During the reporting period, there were five sessions of the commission, 13 officials were heard, 53 letters and requests were sent to officials, answers and appeals received 51. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s apparatus adequately ensures the work of the commission. The commission also reviewed the videos that I am stressing are also in the materials of the criminal case. A two-minute withdrawal from them is offered to your mind. I'm asking for a video and I'd like to pay particular attention, especially to the voices of the chairman at the meeting. Please show me the videos. [[Video recording broadcast]] . Note how from the far side of the door, outsiders walk in through a chain. One's gone, now. Now, the next one comes in, the chain goes into the outside person, the chain, in the farthest part of the screen. Note this. Wait a second. Attention, a key episode, two of these individuals. All right, let's move on. Yes. Now there'll be a comment. Here are the deputies showing how these outsiders escape from the Kiyevrada session hall. Can you give me the photos, please? Four photos. Here are pictures of these outsiders, with flags. One. Next. Two. I thank the Supreme Council Commission for providing this material. Thus, respected colleagues had not spontaneous clashes between Kiyevrada’s deputies, but a planned beating. The body damage was sustained by Kiyevrada Naumko's deputy in the form of a closed cranial trauma, a concussion, a left shoulder injury, a spinal column in the neck, which is why he was on stationary treatment. That same day at 12 p.m., a member of the Kiyevrada Briginetz was injured. Undetermined individuals who had breastplated signs similar to breastplates similar to those of the Paradise deputies entered the session hall without hindrance, where they took part in the beating of the Kiyivrada deputies, and then they left their session hall and their administrative home without hindrance. The action is obviously planned. Then there are the customers and organizers of this brutal and cynical beating. Photos of the performers, you saw them on the screen, passed to the prosecutor's office and attached to the case files. Now, reports of the beating of Kiyevrada’s deputies reached the Shevchenkov District Police Department in Kiev on December 7, 2006, at 5 p.m. According to these facts, a criminal case was committed under part two of article 296 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, “Hooliganism”. The following day, according to the Office of the Attorney General, the case was accepted by the investigator of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev, i.e. transferred from the district to the city level. Taking into account the social resonance and delay in her investigation, on February 8, 2007, the commission asked Attorney General Alexander Medvedzk and Interior Minister Vasil Tsushka to assist the prosecution and police in Kiev and to take personal control of the criminal investigation. On March 3, the commission received a reply from the Deputy Attorney General of Pschenka, who had conducted a number of investigations and investigations, assigned and carried out forensic and medical expertise, attached and revised video materials to the case. Yet, crime, as at the time of the answer, remains undisclosed. At the same time, the Deputy Attorney General points out that the case is delayed and incomplete in relation to which it is intended to be further investigated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the organization of a qualified investigation by the main investigators and for the use of response measures for internal affairs officials who have committed a violation of the law during the pretrial investigation. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has taken the matter up to its implementation, that is, the case has been transferred from the city to the state level in respect of this commission received a letter from the Minister of Internal Affairs, Vasil Tsushka, in which, in particular, it has been noted, taking into account the relevance of the case and the resonance of the crime as a result of the hearing, the decision has been taken to further investigate it with the Chief Investigator of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So the case, that is, the investigation is transferred from the city to the state level. Thus, the intensity of the investigation has increased, control over it has become real, and there is good reason to expect that the case will be brought to trial, both with regard to the perpetrators and the organizers and contractors of the beating of Kiyevrada’s deputies. Also, there is reason to inform you, honourable national deputies, that positive developments in the investigation have taken place and that the cooperation of the commission with the law enforcement authorities has also taken place. I stress, it's cooperation, not pressure. Everyone knows that every militiaman dreams of seeing a thief or a hoodlum on the bench of the defendants. But this does not always occur because of pressure from people, money, or position. So, in the Commission’s view, our main task is not to investigate in parallel, but to protect law enforcement from pressure to allow them to conduct an objective and complete trial and then a judicial investigation. To ensure that the perpetrators are properly punished and compensated. To that end, the commission contributed to the transfer of the investigation to the highest level that is less resilient to pressure. That is why the commission will continue to exercise close parliamentary control over the course of the investigation. And the fact that such control remains very relevant is evident from the fact that the hooligans from the photos you saw still appear to be missing persons. It has been established that the persons who have not been installed have infiltrated there, and we are doing this specifically to ensure that this commission does not then qualify as a spontaneous clash between the Kiyev Council deputies. And this position is ours, it matches those, at this point, law enforcement agencies that are conducting investigations. The second situation, the Kyiv City State Administration, leaves the case, is not even the case of an elementary service investigation. Kiyevrada is not just an MP, it's a city authority. There are officials of local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u85	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. The commission asked for 15 minutes. So in our report, this is reflected by such, honourable colleagues, the beating of MPs took place during the consideration of the question of the rise in housing and utility tariffs. Then, in determining the circumstances of the beating, the commission was to investigate the legal aspects of the tariff issue as well. In our thorough report, it's very detailed, and now it's just the most important. The situation has been undermined by four decisions of the Kyiv City Administration since 30 October 2006, which have resulted in an increase in housing and utility tariffs for the population on average 3.43 times since 1 December 2006. Under pressure and pressure, on December 7, the Kyiv City Council decided to set up a working group to set up, propose economically sound tariffs. On February 8, 2007, on the basis of the conclusions of the working group, the Miskrad decided on housing and utility tariffs, which the State Administration was obliged to amend by four orders from October 30. Predicting the tariff, the increase in tariffs is not 3.43 but 1.8-2 times. Such changes have been made. However, the Kyiv’s Lord’s Court ruling of 13 February declared null and void all four disputed orders, along with additions. Thus, this ruling has not yet been legally enforced, for it is being charged by the Kyiv Government with the Court of Appeal and has not yet been considered. But if this decision, adopted in the first instance, takes on legal force, old tariffs will work, to make it easier to say, it's scientifically written in the report, and here, just to make it easier to say what was going on in the town of Omelchenka's head. By the way, the Master’s Court was considering the matter at his request. This is also the situation in the tariff question where the Court of Appeal will put the dot, if there are answers to questions, I'll tell you what other authorities have a position there. And the last. I also have to report that several other very important and valuable issues where the city community of Kiev is likely to suffer billions of losses have been brought before the commission. This is the case with three specific cases: the “Christmas” Bank, the “Energo-Holding” and the Open Shareholder Society “Kiev’s Bread”. The commission, acting clearly within the limits of its mandate, did not investigate these circumstances. However, taking into account the price of the matter and the similar need for parliamentary support in these matters, it seems appropriate to extend the competence of the commission to these specific three questions concerning the “Christmas” Bank, “Energo-Holding”, VAT “Kiev bread”. Dear colleagues, according to the investigation, the commission is introducing draft Decree No. 333-0 for your consideration. [[Total 9 - Happy Number]] There are four positions, essentially. First. Take note of the conclusions and suggestions of the interim commission of inquiry. The previous report of the interim commission of inquiry will be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Third. To correct the materials, I emphasize, not the previous report, not our impression, namely the materials of the interim commission of inquiry to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for their study and response. Keep going. To expand the authority of the commission of inquiry to investigate the facts of the three matters on which the material is serious and which await your help in resolving the matter. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u86	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. The question is to Boris Yakovitch? Sivulski has one question, please. And Tomenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u87	Dear Boris Yakovich, I was present personally. The colleagues present from the Party of Regions in this Hall, from Our Ukraine, will confirm that all these actions have been provoked by the leadership of the City Council, particularly Secretary Oles Danius. In my eyes, he beat the national deputy Anatolia Seminoga with a metal handle, with a sharp end, and he smashed it to blood. I want to know if these circumstances have been investigated by you? And is a proper assessment given to the management of the Kiev City Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. I want to do it again. provide such information. At the time of the incident, there was only one Ukrainian national deputy in the Kyivrada Hall. I mean, it's impossible to get rid of the untouched MPs. There was a national MP, Seminog. Everything else was other people. There is now a criminal case of fact, of bullying, that is, not against specific individuals. No charges have been brought against specific individuals. And I'm not going to do that, because we're just trying to get the charges brought by those competent authorities who, unlike the commission, have the right to bring the case to trial. And I can say that there are already in the case files and specific potential charges. But I'm gonna do it. I'm not going to call these names because it's going to interfere with the investigation at this point. But accepting our decision will help him. And we're going to keep this case under close control, so that it doesn't just stay there with verbal burns, but that the defendants will sit on the bench, whoever it is, whatever their jobs are. In Ukraine, by the way, no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u90	Boris Jakovitch, I would like to point out that the commission really worked seriously, and this is evident from the materials we received. As one of the initiators of this commission, two positions I would like to clarify. First position. Remember, there was such a disaster in the session room when one person appeared here, not a member of the Supreme Council, and he was active. Do you not think that the Supreme Council has failed to establish the fact and order this unknown person who fought in the session hall, not the deputy of the Supreme Council, a precedent that allowed officials like Kiev to use it? And the second question. From the text, I understand from your report, including that the leadership of the Attorney General's Office, the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs generally responds adequately to the facts you have made. At the same time, at the lowest level, at the district level or at the level of the city, were there any attempts to close the case or not to give it direction? I remember how the management of the Kiev City Council said that there was no beating at all, everyone was healthy, and no one was lying there beaten, as we saw. Do you not consider it necessary to recommend the management of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to respond adequately to those officials at the district, local level who, according to your data, acted inadequately and illegally, especially that this is not the first case? You know, there were a couple of cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u92	Bribery of district or local council members that might need to open a case against police officers at the district or local level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u93	Thank you. First. The initiator of the commission was Sergey Pashinsky, who is now absent, who worked actively in the commission. The other one. So, really, during the events in the Supreme Council, there was an incident, including my participation, where a person who is not a deputy was involved, there was a blockade, and so on. And it's this incident, it's kind of stimulated us to some extent to what we took, really, the photographs of these people themselves, so that no one would then say that somewhere we sometimes have a little bit of a bully. We've given four specific photos. Tell me what these people are where they work, and we'll control it. It's got to be in control. Next. The management of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs should determine the actions of their subordinates. And in their answers, indeed, there was a drag, a delay, and a service investigation. The main thing for us to do is to investigate our case, and that's why we encouraged it to do it on a state level for which, well, on which Kiev really isn't going to press on them, they're actually going to do it. And we have normal cooperation with the board of directors of the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and that's a factor, like.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u94	Okay. The last question is Danieline.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u95	Honorable Rapporteur! I wanted to ask you a question like that. On what basis did you make a statement that there was only one representative of BUT in the room at that time? At that time, there were sufficient representatives and representatives of the Supreme Council in the Chamber. And do you not feel that this is the kind of conduct that was provoked by the representatives of the BUT faction in the Supreme Council at the time that they were there? In order to confirm my words, I will say that, at this very moment, I was in the same meeting room of the Council. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u96	During the day of December 7, there was really a lot. Well, a number of Ukrainian national deputies. Many national MPs are gone, and there are always more of them everywhere, the better. But this episode, which we showed where the actual beating was, which was followed by the hospitalization of Deputy Naumko, took place for about 16 hours and 30 minutes. And in this situation, where the chairman said, "I'll give order in five minutes," at the time, according to what we have, there was one Ukrainian national deputy. During this incident. If you have other data, let's add them to the case files and they will also be investigated, but that's not in the commission's report, I said that in answer to a question, because the commission did not specifically investigate how many Supreme Council deputies were there, because they have the right to be at the local council meetings with the right to consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please. You'll talk later. Wait a minute. Six minutes taken, used for questioning. Who wants to make a statement from the factions? If you want to make a statement, write it down. Bubbles. The bull comes from a faction of socialists, and instead of a soldier, you will speak, Oxelov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u98	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I am a member of the commission whose report you, honourable national deputies, have heard before. As I see it, the members of the commission from the very beginning were not focused on finding answers, which was the reason for the violation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the beating of the deputies of Kiev, which is why the commission was actually created. At its first session, I stressed the need to examine and evaluate the activities of the National Deputies, the members of the BUT and some others, who had caused all these further developments. I said that by using the MP's intrusiveness without the authority and right to intervene in this way in the work of Kievrada, these national deputies during several sessions made it impossible for the representative body of Kiev to work properly. The danger of such violations of the law is clear, as is the objective of these national deputies — representatives of the opposition: destabilizing the situation, to paralysing the work of the authorities, to overthrow society under the slogans of fighting for the interests of the people. In this case, the problem of municipal tariffs is used and another reason will be found tomorrow. But first and secondly, these problems can't be used and excused for breaking laws, the Constitution of Ukraine, including in the way we've seen these and these videos. In my opinion, the commission has deviated from the goals and tasks set by the Supreme Council in its creation, as evidenced by the text of the previous report. Look, there's, well, the fifth part of what this commission is made with is one sheet. And for that, five sheets for other problems, which are also acute, of course, but not for that we create the fall of the commission. I repeat that a group of national deputies, let's say a separate faction, is really able to paralyze the work of a separate council. But the people's deputies, the Supreme Council, must resist such attempts. Indeed, there is no crisis in Ukraine, and there are those who seek it and cannot accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u99	Please, Kiselov, instead of Soltus. And then Zibenko. And Pojinov, he passes, yes, Oxelova. It's good to be from the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to provide guidance to those who are very much fighting against tariffs today and against those who do, these tariffs raise the fact that Chernewsky is the mayor of Kiev, he is on the list of "Our Ukraine" and we have no relation to his election. We just stood up for it. That the council would work and that those who tried to create tensions in society would. So they can't do it. We were providing normal work for the session, and that. It's no longer an example, we've got medical evidence that our General Galunenko's hands were damaged with a pen so that he had to turn, take his beatings off. And that's a fact. Now, as far as the question that we're considering is concerned. We understand that the greatest tension has been created in the sessions of district, city councils, precisely these tariffs, which today are said to be a stone of warning for all. And I want to ask you to do a chronology that came to me yesterday by a collective letter from members of the Herson City Council asking to influence the members of the B.U.T. who came to lower the tariffs, broke the furniture, broke the microphones, failed to work the session. The session was small, had to move into the second room. In general, the country is used for its pianist purposes. So I want to say that after hearing the commission's report, I propose to take it to the board's well-known, report, and stop the commission's work. And remind our colleagues that we need to start on our own. Because when I think about it, when we had a bit of a B.U.T.P., and then our Ukraine, they threw people out, it's not like the MPs were fighting in a session there, it's a whole different fact. And the D.A.'s not responding. So once again, I'm pointing out that we need to do something about this, we need to ask the D.A. And I'd like you to support me with that. And as for the tariffs themselves, they're populist, now to the extent that they're being lowered. I want to draw your attention to the March 4 paper. The secretary of the Lviv City Council, by the way, the head of the “Pore” Regional Civil Party, writes that these are populist tariffs, an illogical plane. People have shown popularly that those who are fighting tariffs today have artificially created this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u101	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The Communist faction, Zybenko. We have listened to the previous report of the Commission, which is headed by a representative of “Our Ukraine”. I want to ask myself a few questions from this rostrum, answer them in public so that our voters can hear me and then make a proposal. First. Who is chosen as the city head of Kiev? The representative of “Our Ukraine”, who, by the way, was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine on the list of “Our Ukraine”, and who was literally in December due to the position of the Central Electoral Council, as it were, on the suspension, waiting for his time to return to the Supreme Council. This is the first time. Secondly, who makes up most of Kiyevrada's deputies today? These are the representatives of the same orange camp, namely “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, which are now part of the so-called “United Opposition”. That's what I'm saying before it turns into a purely inner-family thing between the representatives of the orange camp. Much has been said today. about those unidentified individuals who were shown to us today. Dear colleagues, you and I have seen that very often criminals, even from a photographic robot based on citizens' testimonies, have found people, and here, in fact, the photograph has not been found. What could that mean? Most likely, it means one thing that those so-called "unestablished persons" were assistants, most likely members of the Kyivrada, who entered into and engaged in a relationship. If so, both in the Supreme Council and in Kyivrad, there will be a need for a separate facility for these guards, helpers, and other facilities to store them there. That's me before the situation today: you and I listened to the previous report, but the commission report, and that's why I'm making an offer on behalf of our faction. Having. In view of this report, the commission’s activities should be discontinued, and the materials they have and need the attention of the law enforcement agencies should be transferred for appointment. Further, let the representatives of these political forces, in the form of a united opposition, determine who is more right and who is less right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u103	Poživnov Mikhailo speaks from the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u104	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. I don't want to politicize this situation, let's say, but neither the people's deputies were the cause of everything that was going on in Kyivrada, and unfortunately, thoughtless politics, severely violating both the Local Self-Government Act and the regulatory rules when making many decisions in Kyivrad. And all of this didn't even start with a decision to raise tariffs, and this all started with the decision to create the so-called KyivenergoHoldinga. It's also a mission of shares of the commercial bank "Christmas" when the city community got rid of the controlling stock package, for free of charge, because it's inside our banks and today's value is actually about 700 to 800 million dollars, and it's gone for 100 million dollars and it's into the issue. I mean, the city didn't even get a penny for it. And the efforts of city council deputies from many factions to ask these questions, they constantly came upon such a deaf wall on the side of both Mr. Chernewsky and Mr. Long. That's why the City Council deputies were forced to start blocking the rostrum, and they added tariffs that were not properly raised three or four times. And whoever is trying to place all the blame today, let us say, on the local authorities, let us not think that we have the whole country at the same time all the leaders of cities, villages, and villages have gone mad. And at the same time, in October, November all over the country, they lifted these tariffs. This was government policy predicted and he made a mistake. But the answer was, say, at the level of local councils. So it seems to me that in these approachable actions, Mr. Czernovecki and his team, where the MPs were beaten, and Mr. Cibenko is absolutely right that these photos are today identified, one of them is the guardian of Mr. Czernovecki, and that the law enforcement authorities know about it, and unfortunately they don't bring the matter to an end. Therefore, it seems to me that the commission should continue its work, and the facts that the commission head has been talking about about Kiivenergoholding and the bank “Kristátík” I think I should add further research. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a draft decision, there's a report that you've heard, a previous report, and I fully agree here with the conclusions that Stepan Bulba made about the fact that the text of the report has a very distant bearing on the subject of the commission's work, and we should pay attention to that. Because there is a Supreme Council decree, adopted on December 7th, which provides for the establishment of a commission on the facts of the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and the beating of deputies when considering the issue of tariffs. And the report is about finding the correctness or incorrectness of tariff definitions. There is someone to deal with this matter, and let those to whom people trust handle it, rather than evaluate the Supreme Council, be the commission to which the matter was not subject. But there's another side of the matter, the beating up of city council deputies, and notice, we and Kirovograd see the same thing, in other places, if there are foreign people in the session room, we should give it the worst estimate and bring responsibility to those who allow such facts. Everyone has to understand, the deputies behind their ranks may be, let's say, not optimally reflect the position of the population, but it was people who made their vote, they sent those people to the session room. And I'm sorry to go out there and tell anyone what to do, there must be a time and a time when it's clear that no one has the right to do that. Therefore, in this regard, a request to the prosecutor's office, to find out, to place scores, points above “and” and to punish, and those who entered the session room, and those who ordered entry into the hall, is our duty. And we will be able to put order here, and in this regard, the commission will have to monitor the activities of the prosecutor’s office all the time, keeping this matter under control. Because that's the whole point of the task that was assigned to the Supreme Council for a temporary special commission. It doesn't make sense to continue with the work of the commission because it was created for six months and why make a decision to continue the commission if it was created for six months. That's the first one. It's about other projects or decision points. First, the previous report of the interim commission of inquiry reads: “Print in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine”. I would add: “In a lecture on the subject of investigation for a temporary special commission.” Because once again, six pages of text about the correctness and wrongness of tariffs are not the subject of the commission's work. That was not the case. Next. Extend the mandate of the interim commission of inquiry to investigate the facts of the violation of the Constitution, the Law on Local Self-Government. So wide a decision, so wide a point, you can't take it. Why don't you think about what you wrote here? Where: In the city council, all over Ukraine? The powers of this committee can set such things up, well, that's wrong. And control over the execution of this decree will be placed on the Chief of the Supreme Council. No, it's Bespalogo that needs control and you don't have to put it on, because the commission is made, he's responsible. So I'd like to delete paragraph four, because there's no need to continue, it's already been created for six months. The second is complemented by the remark I made. And the fifth and sixth paragraphs are taken off, because they're just a little bit out of line here. So I'm taking the basis for this proposal. Please, the text of the decree with those remarks that I said on the basis. [[12:00:01]] For 301 Clarification, Bespaly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u106	Those proposals, which I think on the basis of, I think are logically the fourth item on the extension of terms it really doesn't make sense, because the set term is 6 months, it's for the final report. Now, by the fact that the commission's powers have been extended. I agree that in such an editorial, well maybe it allows a broad interpretation, that's why I've only called the three things that we actually have very serious material for, is the “Baptistress” bank, the “Energoholding” and the “Kyivhlib” stockholder society. Now for the publications. We were assigned to determine that we did not establish the economic justification of tariffs. And the commission was working on the legality of these regulations, whether or not the laws and the Constitution had been violated in the decision-making of the KMDA. And the report, by the way, is signed by both the Communist Party and the Party of Regions, because it's not political. So please consider this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u107	Boris Yakovitch, even Communists can be wrong. So I would like to consider this situation. But it was your job to investigate the facts of the violation of the Constitution and of the laws on the beating of deputies, not on the setting of tariffs. Well, be careful again. I propose a vote based on a determination to accept as a Supreme Council ruling, please, and a remark, yes. Please, there's a vote. [[12:01:56]] For 292 Decision taken. And I'd like to ask you what it is to focus on this situation. And the D.A.'s office. We said no one should interfere with the work of the councils of the right level. No one has the right to go into the session room, no one has to send people there for guidance, as he thinks, okay, because it's all criminal, it's all a violation of the Constitution and the laws. A break is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. A draft law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, registration number 1190, is under consideration. [[second reading]] Please, the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the law on the State Property Fund prepared by the Committee on Economic Policy for Second Reading. I want to say that the committee had some 185 proposals from the people's deputies, all of which were carefully considered by the committee's working group, with the participation of experts from the State Property Fund, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice and practically the absolute majority of these amendments were taken into account. The text that was prepared for the second reading was agreed with the government, with the Cabinet of Ministers, because today, according to the new Constitution, the government is directing, coordinating the work of ministries and other executive bodies, that is, the State Property Fund of Ukraine. And even after we gave you the material to the second reading, the table came from the government another letter, literally two days ago, where two observations were clearly made at the signature of the first Vice-Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov, where he proposes, firstly, to completely withdraw article 24, it's the terms of payment of work, tangible property, social security and other security. It is motivated by the fact that it should not be in the body of the law, but will be resolved by a separate government decision, settled. Also, another observation from the government, which is set out in the letter, is that they propose to make part of the first article 12 of the draft law as drafted: the first deputy, the deputy head of the fund appoints and relieves the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in accordance with the proposals made by the head of the fund, that is, as set out in the Act on the Cabinet of Ministers. And the government representative in the deputy minister's office will confirm the government's official position. But for today, it has. They were, there were two fundamental moments where they didn't agree with the State Property Fund, where they got their thoughts out. The foundation insists on acting. insists on one position to be taken into account in the law, but the position is not supported by the committee or by the government today. This is about the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Foundation and the 24th article, where clearly defined conditions for the payment of tangible, social and other benefits. And in my opinion, as these two articles, the principles of the articles are not settled, there will now be no positive vote for us, in my opinion. We cannot allow this law to be “burned” now, figuratively speaking. So I suggest we move this bill to a week, and in a week, let the fund settle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u111	I suggest we move this one. the consideration of this law per week, and within a week to settle and agree on these two fundamental points concerning the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Foundation and Article 24 “Contents for the payment of tangible, social and other security.” Thank you. Because there will be no positive vote in the hall today. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u112	Mikhail Vasilovich, how much will we impose this law, tell me. This question has been clarified, both issues have been clarified, along with the First Vice Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, and it needs to be addressed in essence. Well, we can't pull anymore, we look weird in front of everyone, because three times the law has promised the previous one. the previous president and today. Six promises of the law! The structure has been in operation since 92 C.E. and does not yet have its law, although the Constitution provides for the adoption of this law. Mikhail Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u113	Alexander Aleksandrović, as former head of the Detainee Foundation, I understand very well how this law is needed, and the fund needs to feel a solid legal base under its feet in order to confidently pursue public policies in the field of privatization and corporate governance, but to date, I repeat, there is no single position in the room, there is simply no vote, so it will be better to agree in a week, and to move out in a week. Nothing happens in a week. One week from now, a billion -- still -- we're going to adopt the law today, we're not going to accept it -- a billion won't go away from privatizing in the budget in a week or so. But we must adopt such a law that we can find support in the hall. Today, I repeat, the same hall has split in half.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u114	Well, in view of the fact that half the hall, which was divided, is not in the hall, the matter could be considered in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u115	Come on, then we'll just fail the law. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u116	Well, if that's how you set up the faction, then maybe there's no point in voting. The suggestion was to move the matter to the next plenary week. I'm putting her to the vote. [[12:47:32]] For 232 Decision taken. I apologize to Valentina Petrovna for spending the afternoon here. Give her your word, please. Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u117	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to say that these games, which today go around agreeing on Crimea and on the 24th article, were agreed upon in the presence of Alexander Alexandrovich and mine at the participation of Mikli Janović. This is not the position that was agreed upon at all. But for once, so be it. But one thing I can say is that there will never be a manual management of the holding fund. Today, we have come to the point that there is only one thing that we want today: Drive one organ that does not have the law. I have 22 people in my last month, 22 lawyers have left the holding fund. One and a half thousand wages from the staff of the holding fund to the lawyer! Do you think you can work in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u118	It's about things that are serious. Because we want a person to sit on the wealth of the state -- on property, to be a skilled specialist, to intervene in important things, to change property relationships, and to work for free. It's a good idea, in principle, except it can't be implemented. And it turns out that in the holding fund, where better specialists work, which then go to all the other institutions, they get 3-4 times less wages than in other institutions. And we want order in the state. And we want these people to be incorruptible. And they can't go to court, because there's no money to ship, and even so on, there's no pretentious work. And we'll think about it all the time because someone wants to protect their personal interest. I repeat, next week we're going to consider this essentially, and if this isn't addressed essentially, we're going to make organizational conclusions on this point. You can't play any more games, you can't play with this, I'd like everyone to know that. Thank you. Let us turn to other questions. The draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Organs and Units of Civil Protection is under consideration. Report to the Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations Vladislav Ivanovich Teličko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u119	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft law on the Disciplinary Statute of Organs and Civil Protection Units has been drafted in accordance with the requirements of article 42, paragraph 2, of the Civil Protection Act and in connection with the creation of a new type of public service of a special character, the Civil Protection Service. The bill defines the essence of service discipline, the responsibilities of the family and primary organs and civil protection units in respect of its observance, type of encouragement and discipline, the rights of the primary component to apply it, and the order in which proposals, applications, and complaints are submitted and considered. In view of the fact that civil protection authorities and units are formed on the basis of the civil defence forces of Ukraine, authorities and units of State fire protection, specific requirements of the Criminal Statute of the internal affairs bodies and the disciplinary statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been applied in the drafting of the draft law in part that does not conflict with existing legislation. The statute consists of the following basic chapters: general positions, incentives, disciplinary fees for violations of service discipline, the calculation of incentives and disciplinary fees, offers, claims and complaints. The proposed structure responds to popular approaches and allows the task to be fully solved. At present, the legal framework in a defined area of regulation includes the Law on Civil Protection and Presidential Decrees on the question of the conversion of the Civil Defence Forces and the State Fire Protection Unit into a separate non-military service and the State Civil Defence Force Conversion Programme for Ukraine, the authorities and the Departments of State Fire Protection into the Civil Protection Operations Service until 2005. The adoption of the bill does not require additional funding from the State budget and will allow the maintenance of a high level of service discipline and rule of law among members of the regular and primary bodies and civil protection units, which will ensure the quality of the assignment tasks. The bill is accepted without notice by the central authorities concerned, the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service, the State Border Service, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which are taken into account. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which was considered by the Professional Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u120	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Vladislav Ivanovich, please sit down. Thank you. What will the coreporter say about this? First Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Alexander Viktorovich Zac. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u121	Good afternoon. Dear President, distinguished members of the people. A draft Ukrainian law on the disciplinary statute of civil protection bodies and units developed by the Cabinet of Ministers is being introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill proposes to approve, in accordance with the requirements of article 42, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Legal Basis of Civil Protection and article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, “Disciplinary Statute of civil protection bodies and units”. In particular, it defines the essence of performance discipline, the responsibilities of the military and command forces of civil protection bodies and units to maintain it, the types of promotion and disciplinary proceedings, the rights of the command and civil protection bodies to apply them, and the manner in which proposals, statements and complaints are submitted and considered. Since the civil protection bodies and units are formed on the basis of Ukrainian civil defence forces, authorities and units of State fire protection, separate requirements of the provisions of the Disciplinary Statute of the Internal Affairs Authority and the Disciplinary Statute of the Armed Forces have been used in the drafting of the draft law in part that is not contrary to existing legislation. I am confident that the adoption of this law will ensure a high level of service and rule of law among members of the regular and command forces and civil protection units, which will ensure an adequate level of performance. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Civil Protection Authorities and Units will not require additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine. I also report that the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before which the bill was before them were the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on European Integration supported it. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the project can be taken as a basis. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management, having considered at their meeting on 14 March 2007, recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the draft as a basis. Please support the decision of the Committee to adopt a draft law on the disciplinary statute of organs and civil protection units. And I propose that it be accepted as a law in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u122	Thank you. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric is there? I can't see. The point is, the President is also making an offer to accept it. Consider this law. And he suggested that his representative express his position, but this position is expressed in a document you have signed by the President that he recommends that we consider this law and adopt it. I don't think there's any need to convince him to accept it, but I do need to take into account the comments made by the Expert Authority, because there's no limit to improvement, but there are things that are essential for the entire service, so how are you going to think about it? What are some suggestions for discussing the matter? Is there anyone who'd like to make a statement? None. Then I have reason to vote on this law in the first reading by taking it as a basis and by proposing a committee that takes into account the comments and the MPs, and an expert office to redraft this document for the second reading. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[12:57:35]] For 243 Decision taken. Project registration number 2322 on agricultural wholesale markets There is a letter from the committee signing the chairman of the committee, Michael Gladys, asking him to be transferred to a later date in connection with the need to develop individual positions, evidently referring to the conditions of the WTO, which I first understood. Because many of the producers of agricultural products make comments about this. Let's support his proposal, because you can't really make a mistake here. I am voting on this motion to move the matter forward. [[12:58:34]] For 245 Decision taken. A series of laws are proposed to be considered in a simplified procedure. A decision was made yesterday. Then I declare, 2408 registration number is a law amending article 321 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for the illicit production, manufacture, acquisition, transportation, transfer, storage for the purpose of sale or the sale of toxic and powerful medical devices. It's a Mališev project. And I propose the word to Malishev Volodymyr Stepanovich, a member of the committee on law enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Alexandrovic, respected colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, all we know about tramadol, if not from the press, mainly from the mouth of familiar or parents of dependent children. Regrettably, there is no official statistics, but according to operational data of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Health, up to 80 per cent, think about children and adolescents not only at risk, but from “gold” youth, they use tromads. As a result, about 100,000 young people die each year from drug abuse and its tromadol satellite. It is simply not possible to remain indifferent to this problem. The rapid spread of the tromadol poison drug has now become an epidemic. Despite the restrictions contained in the regulations of the Ministry of Justice concerning its trafficking, its control has not improved. The situation did not allow for the prosecution of persons involved in the sale. For this reason, its uncontrollable use grows every year. Last year, the Ministry of Internal Affairs documented the illegal sale of tromadola by large parties in the cities of Kiev, Dnepropetrovsk, which were operated by drug dealers, the director of commercial enterprises licensed to trade drugs. The fact that we are all prepared to adopt amendments to existing legislation today suggests that the country is on the verge of disaster. I was at the cemetery of Donetsk and the district, and I found out, and there are boys and girls from 16 to 30 years old. I advise all of us to come and see with our own eyes all this terrible tragedy. In Ukraine, four million doses are required, and this is an exaggerated figure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u124	I'm asking you to give me a chance to finish thinking, but you need to focus on what you're doing and what you're doing for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u125	If you could just add a minute, it's a very important problem. Just think about those numbers! This is because the Ukrainian Drug Act does not provide for controls on its productions, as do nine pharmaceutical enterprises in the country. Since toxic, potent drugs are not defined as toxic and potent in the wording of article 322 in force. That's why we're doing this. Illicit drug trafficking in Ukraine is not currently in effect. Not only do I, but my constituents, our citizens, require urgent measures to counter the illicit spread of tramadol, which is a drug that is toxic to medical use. The Criminal Code of Ukraine is amended, namely, in the position of parts one and two, by adding: “and also by toxic, powerful drugs”. The profile committee, the status quo and the round tables held in the committee on 14 December last year and 15 December, with the participation of all professionals, especially drug addicts, law enforcement officials, representatives of public organizations, were fully supported by the bill. The proposed bill should address the issue of criminal responsibility for the illicit production, manufacture, acquisition, transport, transfer, storage for sale, I repeat. Or the sale of a tramadol poisoner. The implementation of the bill, once adopted, would not lead to changes to other laws and would not increase the cost of budgeting. Please support the proposed bill today, as it will be late tomorrow. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u126	Have a seat, please. Deputies may or may not speak out. Oh, is that not a cut-off procedure? That's right, that's right, by the abbreviated procedure. So please write down who wants to speak. For or against, yes. I'd like to pay attention. Sign up as the most qualified specialist in this regard, I'd like to. And he's handing Matthew over, even more qualified, yes. Consider one situation. Our Executive Board has already concluded that all these questions have been settled with us and the Ministry of Health has made it clear that this drug is a toxic substance. So let's define ourselves, because in itself the problem is, and in many, many times the excess of implementation and purchase of this drug, without control, who knows. As this has been happening, it requires a response to the relevant content, but whether the law regulates it or not, or simply the specific activity of the executive authorities. Please, Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u127	Thank you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, our colleague of the Malisev People's Deputies, who introduced this very important bill, has given a terrible figure that kills almost 100,000 people every year from the consumption of toxic drugs. And it's basically that you and I know well, and we understand that these are basically young people who are addicted to taking these substances. I think that this is particularly the result of the use of a toxic medicine that is now called tramadol. I've been talking to operatives on the inside, and they're just screaming that they don't have any legal legal instruments to stop this business from what we call pharmaceuticals, because today's pharmacies and mostly private pharmaceutical companies and pharmacies are making this scary substance, which is tramadol. So, my dear fellows, I think we should take this as a basis, not just today, but as a whole, to adopt such a vital bill that will address the issue of criminal responsibility for the illicit production, manufacture and storage, the sale of toxic drugs, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u128	Please, what does the Ministry think? It's Bill's.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u129	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, Ministry of Health
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u130	I'm sorry. First Deputy Minister of Health
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u131	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. You have already answered that question by commenting on the law. The Ministry of Health, along with the Committee of Law, held round four tables with specialists, and they have virtually a unanimous view of the law. What does that mean? The Ministry of Health generally supports this law, but taking into account the list of the Ministry of Health of all these medical devices, which this group refers to to in order to make it more clear and stricter to the criminal responsibility of those involved in the illicit creation, production, control and implementation of these medical devices. That's why the committee supports it. I think this working group is working, San Sanic, and it can be adopted, this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u132	Then let us make this point: If we treat the criminal code widely, it is as if it were already taken into account. But in practice, it turns out that users of this law and law enforcement officials need to be told exactly -- this is a toxic substance in the form of a medical remedy, so it's a criminal liability in the form of serious punishment, as it's distributed, stored and so on. So obviously let's join the Ministry's mind, and the rapporteurs' mind, and in the first reading, let's take this project. Further consideration should be given to the position of the Ministry, and it would be necessary to define more clearly the measure of responsibility for the matter. Let's vote first on the basis, and then let's see. The first reading is based on the proposal. Here comes the vote. [[13:09:39]] For 238. What Matthew’s opinion was, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u133	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The proposal is to give a commission to our profile committee so that this is not delayed in a very, very long box, but literally in two weeks and at the end of the next plenary week, this law was finalized and adopted by us in our second reading as a law. Because there will be a lot of walkers both to the committee and to the ministry to oppose the adoption of such a law. I'm asking you to give this commission to a profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u134	I mean, there is a second point of the determination to write "in the second reading, in the first decade of April of this year". Yeah? Is there no objection? Then, with the addition that Valentin Grigorovich has just expressed, I make the decision to vote as a document. Please. We'll look at this document in the first decade of April. [[13:11:04]] For 238. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u135	Yes, dear fellows, we go to the most interesting thing you're always looking forward to. Get ready, please. There's a recording on "Rizzne". Please record someone who wants to participate in the “Variable”. Please show me on the monitors. An hour. Please, Jacob. Kovalevska is behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u136	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear fellow countrymen, the political crisis in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is caused by the destructive actions of the ruling coalition. This led to the actual boycott of Parliament’s work by opposition forces. We demand a dialogue between the President of Ukraine, power and opposition. I would like to remind you that President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine has already consulted with the Prime Minister and Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to come out of this political crisis. These consultations resulted in clear arrangements, which were publicly announced both by Prime Minister Janukovic and Chief of the Supreme Council of the Frost. However, representatives of the “crisis” coalition demonstrated their unwillingness to work constructively and to carry out the arrangements the very next day. In fact, the arrangements reached with the President of Ukraine were apparently reviewed the following day at the direction of the neighbouring State. The situation regarding Vladimir Ogryzka’s candidacy as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine is vividly confirmed. We are deeply concerned about the breakup of the working group from the majority and the opposition that should deal with the proposals made by the united opposition in the Supreme Council. This working group, which is to work almost every day, met only once under the chairmanship of the deputy head of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, and the result - no proposal of the united opposition is included - bills on the return of payments at the birth of the child and assistance for the care of the child at the workplace, on the activities of Rosukrenergo, on the prohibition of administrative intervention in the grain market, not inclusion in the agenda as previously agreed. Most of the personnel offered by the united opposition to the High Council of Justice and the Central Electoral Commission are not included. For such ignoring the demands of opposition, we have no other way to continue boycotting the work of such a Supreme Council. The "Our Ukraine" faction will move its main activity to meet with the Ukrainian voters to explain the political situation in the state. We turn to the Ukrainian people, to legitimately oppose all attempts by the rematching government of Yanukovich on fundamental Ukrainian values, on our language and culture, on the quest for freedom of speech, on democracy and on human rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u137	And thank you, but you have to tell the truth. You mentioned my last name here, so I have to say that the group that was going under my direction was trying to keep those promises, and some of them were fulfilled. And now I'm going to be the names that we agreed on. But if we agree together, and they want to do so, it is well - known to say that we are going to a paradise on a strange hill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u138	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u139	Don't direct me, please learn to go to meetings first, and then you'll tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u140	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u141	I'm not going to read you the rules, I'm going to read the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u142	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u143	It didn't work out once, it'll come out second, don't worry. Don't interrupt. My last name was mentioned. I have to give you an answer. There's a teacher. All right, I'll say it again, they're making a deal, but somebody do it. We have to come to meetings, do this. I don't know what you want. As for your statement that nothing has been done, it doesn't match the reality. There was an agreement that the matter of a foreign minister should be considered. Minister of Foreign Affairs has been appointed. Is that the answer? It's settled. A question was raised about the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. The Answer? The question is settled. I won't count others anymore. But I'm going to stress again and again. We need to work when we make arrangements, not wait for someone to pull a plow for you. It's easier to speak. Kovalevska gives the word to Bilash, please. He's got the Palace ready for him. Vyziewsky, I'm making you a point. I repeat, I'm making you a follow-up. If you're going to behave because you've been taught to behave indecently, I'll make a decision to get you out of the session room, that's the norm in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u144	Bilash Boris, Party of Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters. In my statement today, I would like to draw attention to the leadership of Donbass and the Government on the two acute problems of Saint-Gore, these most sacred places of the Donetsk region, which are not only the inhabitants of the region, but also the whole of Ukraine, as well as the people and the people and the people and the far-off. All along, the Holy Mountains attracted people to their unique historical monuments, an ancient monastery with its hospitals, which saw the wife of Prince Igor walking, as well as the incomparable river Seversky Donetsk, whose golden domes of the Temple of Success are reflected in the bright waters. Today they are calling for help. Seversky Donetsk feeds the living water population of the three regions of Ukraine – Kharkovsky, Donetsk and Lugansk. More than 100 water users are located in the river basin, including coal, steel, chemical and housing industries. The annual water harvest is 1.7 cubic metres. The reverse discharge of spent contaminated water creates an anthropogenic load for the river, which is approaching a catastrophic one. The maintenance of hydrotechnical facilities and the restoration of river bioresources requires 170 million grivens per year at least. In fact, some 40 million bracelets are channelled, not from the budget, but from the regional budgets. This is a paradox: annually, water users of the river put $85 million of taxes on water resources into the country's budget, and back to the needs of the river, the budget does not give a penny. The State has left the issue of the Northern Prince and the people living here at risk. I appeal to the Government to do so: save the river by providing the necessary financial resources. And the second question. You can't even imagine that these holy places, St. George's and its surrounding settlements today, are practically not gassed. In June 2004, Naftogaz Ukraine decided to design and build a high-pressure pilot pipeline from polyethylene pipes to Svetogorsk. In 2005, a 6.8km gas pipeline was built. 16.5 kilometres of gas pipeline remained unbuilt. Again, the question is, first of all, to the Government: when finally Naftogaz Ukraine will continue funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u145	Please, Kolocaj, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for the Red Riding Hood.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u146	Thank you. Yury Kolocei, Party of the Regions of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected TV and radio audiences! A significant event in the beginning of the year for Montenegro has undoubtedly been the working trip of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine to solve problems that hinder socio-economic development in the Chernigiv region. As a result of this visit, all the urgent issues transformed into separate Prime Minister orders to executive heads were addressed. During the first half of the year, it is also planned to deal with the issue of the allocation of funds for technical restocking and renovation of agricultural production in the Chernigiv region for the 30 percent cost of agricultural technology and equipment, as well as for their leasing purchases. Over the course of the year, timely and full funding of expenditure is planned for agribusiness support programs, primarily plant production, and financial support through a short- and medium-term loan arrangement to partially offset the value of mineral fertilizers and the complex agricultural techniques of domestic production. During this year, it will be possible to contribute to the implementation of the project in the area of reconstruction in the utility system. By July of this year, the government is planning to take effective measures to pay off employees’ salaries. In preparation for the amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Ministry of Finance has already considered the proposal of the Montenegrin Ombudsman for expenditure taken into account in determining the extent of the inter-budgetary transfers of local budgets. In this presentation, I have only touched on the most important problems of the socio-economic development of Montenegro, which are certainly much more. Only in the commission of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič, 32 steps have been taken to improve the state of life in the Chernigiv region. Looking at the high pace that the government is now setting for the political life of the country, how skillfully it is to separate grains from half, I have no doubt. All the disadvantages of mismanagement of the previous government are certain to be overcome by you, your esteemed colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u147	Thank you. Sergey Redfoot, prepare Chechtovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u148	Sergey Redfoot, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the honourable electorate, I was forced to come to this rostrum today by one very interesting document that I hold in my hands and show everyone. This is an official note on behalf of NATO to the minister of Ukraine Papiev on work and social policy, such as Mr. James Green. What we're talking about is, you know, the government of Yanukovich has resumed the activities of the Ukrainian State Committee on Veterans, and now it's about the establishment of this committee. Thus, such ladies, who already have a knowledgeable view, have the insolence to interfere illegally with the internal affairs of Ukraine, that is to say, “Lord, Minister, do this, not do this.” You know, I'm just sick of keeping these papers in my hands, I've just told you once that there's no food for the state. It's not just "both" here, it's already going to be some sort of nagging by our state. And here is very clear advice that “you cannot do this because it is not recommended and we will not allow you into international programmes.” I'm going to hand over these documents as my official request for intervention in the internal affairs of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u149	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please prepare Danieline, conveys the word Savosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u150	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Radziewski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u151	Alexi Razdziewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u152	Alexei Radziewsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. Lividity. Dear colleagues, high-ranking radio listeners, my speech today is brief, and I want to dedicate to the unacceptable facts of civil war, which, unfortunately, we can still meet at various levels of power, both at the level of local government and at the level of central authorities. Yesterday, the Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, informed this Hall of the egregious facts of such a fallacy on the part of the leaders of Kretelek, who had allowed themselves from January 1st of the running year to take advantage of some technical capabilities and to deprive the millions of pensioners of our state of the benefits offered by us as the Anti-Cristrian Coalition and the government of Viktor Yanukovich. Not only did they not provide aid, they “threw three skins” from that poor pensioner, a war invalid, and stole a hundred percent of their pay for phones. I think that in such cases we should exercise high principles and make sure that similar officials are held accountable. Today, against the backdrop of those positive changes, the dynamics that are taking place in our country allowing individual hiccups from power to abuse the Ukrainian people. Or a second example. Now beneath the walls of the Supreme Council there are several hundred fraudulent people from the Borispolska KSP who have stolen their property pies, who have been deprived of all kinds of manipulations, deprived of their land market rights, and are nowhere to be found today. They even stole the relevant official documents, because through the manipulations of the “Borispilski” CSP, 1,729 hectares of land on the Ivanov Rural Council and 2,000 hectares on the Deep Rural Council, legal documents were issued and land was destroyed. Today, these deceitful people are under the walls of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I call upon all of you, and on my own part, I will do whatever it takes to ensure that the authority of our national deputies, the authority of our Coalition of All-U.S. Unity, is only elevated. And we will not let anyone compromise the positive processes that are taking place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u153	Thank you. Hennady Savosin. To be prepared, Netecka gives the Mirasnika a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u154	National deputy of Ukraine, socialist faction in the Supreme Council. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, respected radio and television audiences. Repeatedly, in Parliament and in the media, there are strong statements by the opposition that the Anti-Crist Coalition is in power, and it must bear full responsibility for all the problems that are taking place in the state. In most areas of Ukraine, it became clear why government administrations and councils are leading representatives of the same opposition. So they're regionally in power. And as it is used, I will give you a number of examples from the lives of mythical authorities. Mr. Buchnevich, head of the county council, represents the same political power as "Our Ukraine". And instead of giving orders in the region, they resorted to persecution, revenge on those forces who oppose their inability to work for the people. This is confirmed by the events surrounding the head of the Kuti’s Chestnut Reservoir, a member of the SPI. Representatives of the ruling forces of Our Ukraine and BUT in the Paradise are urgently making an ultimative decision regarding the dismissal of Kuti from his position. The last one quickly reaches the table of the head of Mr. Buhanović’s ODA. In fact, the accusations of Kuti, which were announced at the so - called meeting, were unfounded and were not withdrawn. This is reflected in the results of the 2006 work. As a result, there is an urgent session of the Shepetov District Council to decide on the mistrust of the RDA Kuti head, consecrated by the heads of the factions in the Paradise. When he was accepted, the MPs did not even notice that the head of the RDA was in the hospital market at that time, so he could not be present at the session and document the wrong actions at his address. And without hearing the report, they made a decision of mistrust. They rushed because the aim of such an attack was to lead their control person into the chair of the RDA to further extend what was left in the area. Regrettably, the events of the Hmélních ODA were also shameful, which, while not seeking to understand, took a stand for the support of its circuit brothers. The person is in hospital bed, and the head of the district administration sends his commission after the session to prove “justice” of the decision taken. [[in quotes]] Once again, the day of the commission worked, and without even meeting the acting head of the RDA, it was his verdict: guilty. And the ODA will be sent to the president in a hurry. The representatives of the Hmelničina in the Supreme Council have not responded to the appeal of the MPs to the Rallyad faction of most Ukrainian national deputies. And even the one who offered Kutu this position was silent. He's in another camp today. Today, the President withdrew from office Kutu Vladimir Pavlovich, but regardless of the letters, despite the fact that both Kabmin and the President knew about the situation. The question is, Can Kabmin’s decision be implemented locally? The answer is no. With that attitude of authority involved. These are the 17 moments of the spring opposition to the execution of local authorities. No, they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u155	Thank you. Your time is up. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please. Get ready. Bertash passed it to Mutza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u156	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I wanted to draw your attention to the events that took place on March 16th in this session hall, namely: the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the costs incurred by the privatisation of VAT “Criminal”. Sadly, I personally could not take part in this decision. Because I was making an alternative decision to the one that was prepared by the head of this temporary commission of inquiry, and when I examined the transcript, I saw that there were a lot of complaints at my address, as if I wasn't taking part in the work, as if I wasn't contributing in any way to this work, but I was just preparing an alternative draft decision. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I was very active in this work. Sadly, the commission met only three times throughout. Of these three times, I was invited to just one meeting. At the same time, seeing that opposition representatives do not want to investigate the expense of the “Criminal”, I personally initiated an appeal to the authorities of the State and received information. By the way, I'm telling you that more than 15 billion dollars out of the 19 that came into the U.K. state budget is unknown how they were spent. I also turned to this chairman of the commission, Mr. Sinchuka, I'm sorry, and I didn't get any support from him so that we could officially contact the Court of Auditors, the investigating authorities, from the interim commission of inquiry, to provide us with this information. Then I was forced to address the Chief of the Supreme Council through a reportable and to address the Supreme Council with a draft alternative decision. This decision predicted — literally in two words — the first thing to take into account. The second is to entrust the Ukrainian Court of Auditors to check the use of funds, and to change the head of a commission that does not contribute to this work. What do we get a draft decision from our colleague, Mr. Sass, to cancel this? It's a decision that we've taken, sort of, by procedural signs. I assure you that there is no official legal basis for the annulment of this decision. Little, I assure you, the coalition's representatives on this committee will work in principle to find out the circumstances under which 15 billion dollars, we count every penny here, we don't know where. And that information will lead us to the knowledge of our choices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u157	Thank you. Orestes Mutz, please. Prepare Bogchuk. Let's get the Ternopil boys to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u158	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Dear voters, I am very ashamed that in 15 years of so-called democratic farming in our country, and in the last year of the opposition orange, the Ternopil region has become the most corrupt, shadowy, and one-third of the people do not believe in foreign lands, earning a piece of bread for their families. As a member of the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption, I am obliged to resist abuse. So I'm going to talk about the authorities of the State Tax Service, where there is or is not the highest corruption. Under the shadow schemes, the companies of Ternopolska are sold, which are strategically important for the economy and security of the state. The VAT is illegally returned. This takes place with the participation of the DPA head of the Ternopil region of Mr. Svistun and his first deputy Shamansky. It is not without the patrons of Ukraine’s DPA. Tax collectors and law enforcement officials are now employed by almost the entire economy of the Ternopil region. Did dollars so blind the DPA’s leadership of Ukraine’s eyes and destroy conscience, patriotism, principles? The DPA contributed to the fact that the ordinary private tax collectors of Ternopil, who were at the inspection of one of the spirit factories in the region, Horoskovsky, were closed and set on fire together with confiscated left - hand alcohol when performing duties as cattle in the barn. Taxpayers have received care that is part of serious bodily harm, virtually disabled. However, the perpetrators are still not punished, for there is no one to protect the regular taxes, common performers, and not those in high positions in Kiev. I would like you, the honourable leadership of the DPA of Ukraine, tax collectors and bribes, to learn how to work as hard as your ranks subordinates, even risking their lives. The corruption of the leadership of the Ternopil DPA of Masters Svistun and Shamanski, as well as their Kiev patrons, is reflected in the socio-economic situation in the area. There were two rallies at DPA Ternopil. Yes, on January 17, this year, several thousand taxpayers demanded the release of the leaders of the Ternopil PDA. Both of the tests that worked in Ternopol, led by the deputy U.S.A.A., were unable to report on the apparent abuse of local taxpayers on my parliamentary request. Not enough, my demand for DPA Ternopil's corruption, the leadership of the DPA of Ukraine, has turned into a tool to earn hundreds of thousands of dollars from the leadership of the Ternopil DPA to save their jobs. However, I am confident that corruption in the DPA will be stopped, I am confident that the government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine, will force the Ukrainian DPA to exercise the powers provided by the State. Please consider my address to Henprocuror, to the head of the SBU and to the vice-premier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u159	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, please. Prepare Anthemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u160	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. As in most parts of Ukraine, the honourable deputies, in Ternopolska, are now in full swing. The peasants again associate their great hopes with the field, with the results of their labor, and with the harvest. But people's mood is not very good, and it's caused by the fact that the existing tax policy, the credit system of the state, is practical. They do not take into account the specifics of agriculture as a sector with a seasonal nature of production and the slow movement of negotiable funds. The pressure on the peasant’s prices is increasing. This led to a decline in the purchasing power of agriculture. Almost to a loss level. In the past weekend, I went to a market in one of the districts. And he witnessed how the seller of the calf he had cared for for for over two years had paid 1,500 dollars for it. But as the man explained, these days he sold two more milk calves from the house. Do you understand what's going on? The state has a catastrophic decline in the headship of cows. And with each month and year, the situation here becomes more and more dangerous. If it does not change it for the better, there is a danger that the state may lose its uterine headship. The body was not able to be born as it was taken away by shoplifters with large knives. I want to say this in a way that everyone will hear about it. In Ukraine there are laws to protect wild animals, there are laws to prohibit the destruction of dogs, cats, other nutrients, and here to defend what is our national, economic security, nobody. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics does not understand what position it is in. Agricultural production canals are monopolized by trade-mediated structures that actually dictate buying prices for agriculture. And here, unfortunately, there are mostly shadow schemes, there are no effective mechanisms for public market regulation. As a result, in the Ternopil region last year, pig purchase prices dropped by 54 percent, beef by 21, milk by 10. This leads to animal damage. Who are they going to do? Ladies and gentlemen, the need to develop and adopt a comprehensive long-term national programme to support and develop the agricultural sector of Ukraine's economy, identifying clear and concrete mechanisms for financing it. To save the village, we must urgently develop a mechanism to protect the agricultural producer under the conditions of Ukraine’s membership in the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Antemuk. Prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio audiences, and television viewers. Recent processes in Ukrainian politics and society have shown that the opposition forces, which are now mostly identified by “Our Ukraine” and BUT, are making every effort to break down the positive economic and social and political disruptions of the state. What is happening in Parliament today is that you have the opportunity to observe for yourself, but no less subtlely, they undermine social harmony and stability in the regions. A clear example of such a policy is the attempt to deal with its political opponents in the Cosyatian region of Winnitzkin. Here are the orange forces in the head of the district government, at the same time the heads of the district centre of “Our Ukraine” Mr. Zaiczko are systematically harassing and creating obstacles to the work of representatives of the Party of Regions, the Communist Party, the People's Party and others. Especially when they are in charge. On March 7, following the initiative of Mr. Zaiczko, the factions of BUT and “Our Ukraine” in the District Council, an attempt was made to remove the head of the District Council of Stachov, who actively supported the Party of Regions and its supporters during the previous elections. When he was defended by the head of the Education Department of the Retainment, a circuit council member from the Party of the Regions, Ms. Didenko, was set up immediately after the session, a commission was set up to verify her work. In just days, Mrs. Didenko was relieved of her job on a rather questionable basis: a one - time gross breach of her job in the purchase of computer technology. In doing so, it should be noted that these computers were purchased in December of last year and with the economy of 2,000 dollars in favor of the district’s educational institutions. The strong confirmation of gross insinuations by the head of the rajht management at Ms. Didenko’s address is, in fact, the unanimous support of her district school directors and all without exception from the representatives of the district education department. They wrote a letter that called for attention to Mrs. Didenko’s professional abilities, not to her party affiliation, to examine the situation carefully and to curb the political forces who do not distinguish party preferences from national interests. The local organization of the Party of the Regions expressed its disapproval and indignation with the actions of Mr. Zaiczko, his insolent conduct and abuse of the service. In their address, my party expresses concern about the state of affairs that took place in the Cosatian district of Winnitsk, where management positions are mostly held by representatives of BUT and “Our Ukraine”. Today, they are characterized by intense political pressure on opponents, the spread of social evil and civil tranquillity in the area, the persecution of representatives of other political forces. I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Supreme Council to the danger and destruction of social relations created by such actions and to urge the representatives of “Our Ukraine” and BUIT to stop this destructive and shameful practice at last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u163	Thank you. Valentina Matthew, please. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u164	The Communist faction, Matthew. Respectable citizens! First of all, I want to address you: the Communist faction urges you to come on March 25th, on Sunday to the poll site, and to speak on such important issues as Ukraine's accession to NATO and to the EP. In particular, we report to the people of Kiev that on March 25, on all exits from the subway station in Krestatika, as well as in many other places, there will be red rooms, which are more than two hundred voting points with the symbolism of the Ukrainian Company. Come and give your opinion, say for yourself what you think about these two issues. And the second. As is known in the Supreme Council, during several calls, there is sufficient principle and persistence to resist the pressure of nationalist forces to impose a positive solution to the issue of the recognition of UN UPA as warring against Fascism as a party and to grant it to veterans of the Great War. This is followed by a Communist MP’s faction, well aware that concessions in this regard will lead to another disruption of public tranquillity and opposition in society. Regrettably, the President of the country of Yushchenko continues to take a position of diametric opposite to that of the highest legislative body of the state, appropriately ordering those political forces that led him to power. Many regions are now working hard to implement the President’s decree. Monuments, memorial boards, pseudoheroes, and U.P.A. U.P.A. activists are opening up, and this is often done without the decision of the appropriate authorities of local self - government, as is the case, especially in Suma, which has caused fair public outrage. This has become possible only for that reason and especially for that purpose. on the archival case, the opening of the archives, because the deputy head of the Presidential Secretariat of the Vasjunik has given instructions to the government to do all that is possible in the State archives. It's unacceptable. Historical truth and justice cannot be raped, and laws must be enforced by all, including the Bank’s, and more so by the guarantor of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u165	Thank you. Mikola Kulczynski, please. Jaroslav Kenzier's behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u166	Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine” faction, Poltavščina. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, yes, historical truth cannot be raped. On June 30, Ukraine will celebrate the century since the birth of the great son of the Ukrainian people, the Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian-Insurgency Army, Roman Josephovich Suhevich. Through his family training and participation in patriotic organizations, Roman Shuhevich had served Ukraine loyally since his youth and had been active in defending the Ukrainian population from the repression of the Polish authorities for three years as a political prisoner. In doing so, Suhevich showed not only any talent, not just as a public figure, but as a capable entrepreneur, who set up a system of financial assistance in the Ukrainian environment. In 1938-1939, Roman Suchević played a leading role in the creation of the Carpathian net on Zakarpat, which he fought unevenly with Hungarian fascists for the independence of the Carpathian Ukraine. And only the help of German fascism helped overcome the independent Carpathian Ukraine. During 1943, Shuhevich became one of the creators of the new liberation movement program, which envisioned the fight against German and Bolshevik invaders and the construction of a democratic system in Ukraine’s future free country. And in the fall of the same year, under the alias Taras Cuprenco, he became the chief commander of the Ukrainian rebel army. He remained in that position until his heroic death in the battle of March 1950, refusing to offer to migrate to a democratic Europe. It was under his leadership that the UPA became the national army, which the President of France, De Gaulle, said enthusiastically: “If I had such an army, the German boot would not trample France.” The Communist regime has spent a great deal of effort in bribing Roman Shuhevich’s name and putting his family under repression. This outstanding man’s one - century Jubilee is a good opportunity to honor him on a national level. We consider it the duty of all the patriotic forces in Parliament and, in my opinion, the entire Parliament to support the draft Decree No. 3078 "On the 100th anniversary of Roman Shuhevich's birth". And finally give the status of veterans of war to all the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army. And I have no doubt that this will be done. But even if there are some Ukrainian values in the government today and in the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian people will no longer live in captivity to Communist dogmas and myths. We are already proud and will continue to be proud of the heroes who gave their lives for Ukrainian freedom for our independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u167	Jaroslav Kenzior, please follow him, Viezivsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u168	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I would like to touch on a subject that, in my view, is extremely important and certainly concerns the representatives of all the political forces represented in the hall. I mean, without generalizing, without saying that all the courts and all the judges are fundamentally corrupt. But many examples can be cited when the decisions of individual judges are simply a disgrace to the state. Their preconceived decisions, their decisions, built on bribes, on contracts, destroy their faith in the state. People realize that justice in the state of search is simply hopeless. Therefore, Ukraine’s higher legislative body should certainly touch on the very near time of the subject and, looking at the agenda for the next plenary week, there are questions that touch on judicial reform and judicial action in Ukraine. But why have certain specific judges been so maimed, especially in recent times? Because they see the sympathy of today’s authorities with those personnel, that is, the great officials who, after the orange revolution, had their heels cast from Ukraine. I mean, this whole bucket, a dozen dozen, has stopped at this Moscow reservation of Ukrainian criminal authorities. And when today the authorities meet with their arms, Oleg Sal, soon See, soon the Bilocon will appear and many others, such judges who are inclined to do so, they are said to be slowing them down. I'd like to call it not to be loud. Recently, the judge of the Lvova Railway Court, Igor Ganic, makes a decision that he justifies, completely ex - city head, justifies the bribe. I want to be warned that there is no such thing as political affiliation, national ownership, bribe is a bribe, and its nationality and partying is a bribe. Aunt Kostov, Judge of the Lviv Economic Court, who. The name here already sounded like a dozen times. And sadly, the Antichrist Coalition, with information about the impure decisions of this judge, supported this judge. Of course, she will make such decisions with confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u169	Please, Vladimir Viezowski. Get ready. Bishkov gave the word to Sivuli.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u170	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". Dear Ukrainians, the ruling coalition frightens Ukrainian citizens with myths of the cold war that do not answer the question: Why did 26 countries become NATO members and no one wants to get out of it? Why were former members of the Warsaw Treaty Czechs, Poles, Romanians united with English, Spanish, Bulgarians on the defensive block? And the answer is simple. First, only countries with the rule of law and free choice work for citizens are admitted to NATO. It's different. NATO is the most effective collective security system in the world. For Ukraine, NATO membership means guarantees of territorial integrity and makes it impossible to intervene in any part of its territory. It is important that NATO participates in the fight against international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, illicit drug trafficking, and trafficking in human beings. Thirdly, NATO's decision is taken by consensus, each country owns the veto and makes its own decision to participate in military operations. Therefore, the claim that joining NATO will lead to Ukrainians in foreign wars is absurd. For example, the position of three NATO members has led to the block's refusal to participate in an operation in Iraq, while the non-block Ukraine has sent its troops to Iraq. Thus, participation in NATO will greatly strengthen Ukraine's role in the world. Fourthly, joining NATO is an order for our industry, transport, science, new technology, the modern army, it's an investment climate improvement, and then the standard of living of citizens. In Poland's economy in 97, two billion dollars were invested, and in 99th year after joining NATO, eight billion dollars were invested. In the same way, investment in Romania and Bulgaria grew after these countries joined NATO. The introduction to NATO is a prerequisite for joining the EU, which has also demonstrated the experience of neighbours. First, security and stability through participation in NATO and then economic and social benefits from the European Union. This axiom should be adopted primarily by our government officials, who are most distant from the national interests of Ukraine, because the National Security Act defines the accession to NATO as one of the main objectives of state policy. This law is mandatory, including for the Prime Minister, even more so than the faction of the “Regions” voted for him. Meanwhile, Yanukovich’s actions do not indicate his desire to do so. The "Our Ukraine" faction calls on all politicians to take responsibility for national security, Ukraine's NATO membership is not a subject for cheap pyar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u171	Please, Sivuliski asked Mikola Ivanovich, who has something urgent to carry on a little later. Kozub and Tedeev pass on the word Yaduchi. Six minutes is your chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I'd like to leave politics behind today, and it's probably very convenient for both the activity and the morality of the orange, so-called, opposition people yesterday, and the city's city head Uzhgrada spoke well. I think we've all been watching this transmission closely and we've found out once again who the words differ from, who really is the patriot of Ukraine and who is hiding with this blanket. Of course, we are concerned -- the Ukrainians and us, especially in Western Ukraine -- with a lot of questions, because the information that comes from television screens today is mostly one-sided, it's distorted. For example, I find it sad to watch TV lately, where there is actually one-sided information that aims to disinformation the work of the government of Viktor Yanukovic and the coalition of national unity. In principle, we say that there is no freedom of speech in Ukraine. If so, when it was, if not today. And of course today the faction of our Ukraine, especially its leader, most of them speak, say that someone is coming back today, someone is being destroyed, someone is being removed. I would like to remind you that there was no greater staff cleansing, a greater destruction of the elite of Ukraine, as in the period of the Orange Revolution. It was then that there were professionals working for the development of Ukraine, for the development of regions, districts, districts, cities. To this day, power has fallen to nothing! It's a shame to hear that most so-called opponents speak out that the Yanukovich government, our coalition, is not working on developing and increasing social standards. We all know that this is not the case, for it is the government of Yanukovitch that is in keeping with all the commitments made in the 2007 State Budget. But what I'd like to say is, let me give you an example on my home hamster. The region's budget is the largest in Ukraine's years of independence. It hasn't been like this before -- over a billion dollars. When I was in no area at a circuit board session, I asked a simple question: How does power work, most of it in the district council, which consists of the BUT faction and our Ukraine over development and pain really for our people? He asked: How much is it allocated for emergency medical care, such as for one resident? Answer: One bracelet. How much is the food supply 0.8? Why school lacks textbooks and so forth when the budget has practically increased by a third, while at the same time the cost goes to car purchases, repairs, and so forth. The question is, dear countrymen, respectful listeners, who does not use rationally the funds that have gone so hard to develop the economy and have won the government of Viktor Yanukovic? But today, I would like to take the opportunity to respond to the appeals of my fellow countrymen who have come and go closer to earth’s problems. First of all, I would like to remind you that in Ukraine today, a full - time sowing campaign is under way and that there is still a branch like the village. It is still alive, no matter how it is destroyed, not trampled, alive, and willing to live. And in this context, I would like to respond to the draft Act adopted in the first reading on State support measures and incentives for the development of mineral fertilizers for the establishment of appropriate benefits for chemical enterprises voted yesterday by the Supreme Council. I personally did not vote in favour of the bill. From my point of view, it's a lobbyist project, and it's no use to peasants. Because today we know in whose hands chemical factories. And I'm giving you one last example. How can we explain the fact that the traders in the supply of mineral fertilizers to the Hmelnicki district in February-months paid the money for the “Rineazot” and the fertilizers to date cannot be taken from there? By March 10, including a 100 percent company was working to export our domestic consumers. When the sowing campaign goes on, it's still on the line. But at the same time, the price of ammonia saltpeter, for example, has increased by 17 percent over the last month, and it's 1,350 dollars. Where did this come from? What, did the price of energy increase? What's the reason? There's absolutely no reason. What I'm trying to say is that today, we had this previous conversation with the APC vice-premier. And there's an agreement that the government will still have an impact on this situation. And another of the most painful issues that bothers the inhabitants of the Hmélní region. I want to draw attention to the health system. One problem is the implementation of the government’s sugar - diabetes program. I'm starting or starting with this fiscal year, the state budget has earmarked for local budgets for the purchase of insulins. For example, the Jarmolinsky District Budget of the Hmielnicke District has a total of 149,000 dollars under the program. On the part of the State, the step is justified and justified. But it's nearing the end of the first quarter, and it's impossible to recover the funds. Under the current legislation, public purchases are to be made through a tender. It would seem clear and clear, but the Ukrainian Chamber of Tenders is going to be botching any order after the announcements are accepted. At the same time, there are only a few days left for 145 patients. I mean, obviously you can see the situation all over the country like this. We called on the government to bring the system in order, to set up a solicitation chamber, the Ministry of Health to work for Ukrainians, not to do what they do today, and hope for a positive outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-23-m0.u173	Thank you. The village lives and will live forever, you said right, no matter what. Yes, Sivuliski has not yet come. There's no Zabotsky. Well, everyone who wanted to participate, everyone who wanted to participate and signed up, did, did. That's why we're finishing, we're closing today's meeting. The meeting, the morning session of the Supreme Council, is closed. I remind you, dear colleagues, that we've been working with you for two plenary weeks. The next plenary week we're working with voters. And I turn again, really, to visit and enjoy hearing Jaduch speak and say that he was in the process of meeting with the electorate during the circuit councils where he was sitting. It is a good thing that we are and would like to be seen as often as possible by the electorate in places of various political powers. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will be held at 10 a.m. on April 3. Good luck. Good luck.
