ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u1	Good morning, national MPs, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, radio audiences, and television viewers. April 10th today, Tuesday. Just as the MPs decided last week at the plenary meeting, we're going to change the meeting order a little bit this week. A meeting of the Conciliation Council had just taken place and was thus determined. Every day at 10 a.m., a plenary session is held, and there are other issues being discussed. If necessary, the meeting will continue for the time determined by the Supreme Council itself. And so we work in plenary mode for two hours from 10 to 12 hours, and we spend the rest of our time working on committees and factions. In this regard, I ask you to prepare for the registration of the deputies. I'm asking you a question about your name tag right now. Identify yourself, please. [[10:05:17]] Ready to work in plenary mode for 257 national deputies, the rest are still hesitant. The morning session shall be declared open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now 60 years of age to our colleague, who is not present at the Parliamentary meeting, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz. Let's welcome him on this date. [[Applause]] And Pachesuku Sergey Nikonovitch is less substantial, but today is also a birthday. Let us welcome him to this event. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have half an hour for the presentations of authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. We obviously have less time to use, because not all factions are represented. Stoyan, please, from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u2	Dear fellow MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The theme of my talk today, how Julia Timoshenko took revenge on Victor Yushchenk. What Yushchenko signed is an anti-constitutional, anti-national decree, a “deservation” of course, of Julia Timoshenko, who pushed him to this decree. The question is: “Why did Julia Timoshenko do this? Why does she remain silent today and give no assessment?" We're going to remember a little bit about history. 2001 Julia Timoshenko, Vice Prime Minister in the government of Yushchenko, and Yushchenko calmly offers Julia Timoshenko, Julia Timoshenko takes the white towels, Yushchenko does not stand up for her. Let's move on to history. 2004 Certainly, Majdan. And that. That Yushchenko became President, let's face it, and that's without a hitch, a small credit to that and to Julia Timoshenko. What the President is doing. He gives her the post as prime minister, but six months later, we all know that, dear friends say that she cannot be given such authority, and he quietly throws Julia Timoshenko out of power. Is Timoshenko offended? Yes, of course. Did you hide your anger? Yes, of course. New electoral outage in 2006. Once again, they win, they win a number of votes, there's a great deal of tension between Timoshenko, between Yushchenko, among the followers, among the beloved friends, and whether to give her the prime minister's office. We know that the Prime Minister's office was not given, and that was the last point that poured oil into the fire. Julia Timoshenko hid another grudge against Victor Yushchenka. Obviously, she couldn't bear it, she couldn't forgive him. And what Julia Timoshenko today pushed Yushchenko into an anti-national decree is her credit. What will Julius Tymoshenko win? In any situation, it will win, because this decree is unconstitutional, we will certainly not do it, we will not go to the elections, but then Julia Timoshenko will say, well, he doesn't know the laws, he issued an anti-constitutional decree, and that rating that today's five or six percent in Yushchenka falls below the plentus, and July has every reason to put his candidacy to the presidency in 2009. And if there are other options, other choices, don't give God, and we can, we said yesterday, go to the election with the election of the President and the NATO referendum, it will take a percentage that will be much higher than our Ukraine, it will say again what Turkey said yesterday: and where we don't go together, we're going together now, and we're going separately. And when there's a different percentage, once again, "Timoshenko Street" will say, Victor Andryovich, where you go to the presidents, you have a low rating, we go to the presidents. In any situation the President loses, in any situation Julia Timoshenko wins. So I would like to turn to Viktor Andriyovich: Viktor Andriyovich, think about what you are doing! You've told the people that you'll take 10 steps towards the people, but until we see one step, take one major step: unite Ukraine, it's not too late, it's not too late to rescind your order, it's not too late to bring order in the country. Is it possible to be good for what you have actually blessed for tomorrow, to bless “Our Ukraine” to draw people up? Why? You said there wouldn't be a fight. Change that decision! And the last. You know, dear colleagues, it was strange to me as a human that on this holy day, on Passover day, Viktor Andriyovich set up a rostrum at Sofia's Maidan, near the Council of Sofia, and as the messiah gave political talks. Is he not the guarantor of the Constitution? Is he not a guarantor of freedom of religion? How could this be done? It was no accident that the President signed the decree of the Emotional Week, for having actually committed a great sin, that God was on our side and he did not give the fire that was to be brought from Jerusalem to light on this holy day. I think God is on our side. Victor Andriyovich, you are a man of godly devotion, fear God, come back to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u3	The word is Shibko Vitali Jakovic. Who? Ivan Mikolaiovich, right? Ah, Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please, Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich of the Socialist faction. Simonenko's next. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear TV setters, radio audiences! National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winničina The faction of the Ukrainian Socialist Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes it is necessary to stress that the Ukrainian Parliament continues to work on a state-of-the-art basis. We consider it inappropriate, without waiting for the verdict of the Constitutional Court, to stop legislative activity, to violate the principle of the continuity of Parliament's work. Certainly, apart from the general rejection of the President's decree of 2 April of this year on the timely suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, to our deep conviction, is unconstitutional and, I think, the relevant conclusion of the Constitutional Court will be surprising, in particular paragraph 2 of this Order, which states: “Propose the Ukrainian National Deputies to continue to exercise their powers, which are not directly related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Of course, it is a pearl in norm-making and it would obviously be logical to ask whether it is a request to the constitutional guarantor to comment on or explain what it means to “propose the Ukrainian National Deputies to continue to exercise their powers, which are not directly related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. What kind of authority do we have as national deputies that is not the authority of the Ukrainian national deputies? The Supreme Council will be working in these days both in session mode and in committees. In particular, tomorrow our Committee on Social Policy and Work will hold extensive hearings on the role of trade unions in the lives of our society, on the legislative strengthening of certain issues related to the expansion of the rights of professional communities. Therefore, all who want to participate can come. The hearings will be held at the 12th office in Gruszewski. In addition, it is planned to hold a joint meeting of a number of committees on the initiative of our committee, which will determine the legislative solution to the problem of hostels, institutions, and organizations. The goal is to allow the housing to be privatized. Today, on the Conciliation Board, my colleagues — committee heads — reported on their specific work plans for this week and next. What we have today, what we do, is shown by the following statistics: From the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of the present calling, a total of 230 laws have been passed. Another 101 were adopted in the first, second reading. Today, there are 772 drafts on the committees, 142 of which are prepared for consideration in the Supreme Council in the session hall. One word, we will work in a peaceful, balanced manner, according to our authority, according to the plan of work of the Supreme Council, we will adopt the laws that our Ukrainian people need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u5	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich of the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u6	Dear voters, on behalf of our faction — the factions of Communists — allow us to express some thoughts, give our vision of the developments in Ukraine and what is happening today in Parliament and in the city of Kiev. First. As a result of the issuance of a criminal decree signed by Yushchenko, based on nationalist right-wing pro-American forces, Yushchenko placed the country on the brink of civil opposition. All its follow-up actions are directed at only one point: affirmation of the strength that was supported by the Americans during the 2004 elections and the attempt to implement the commitments made to the Americans. To speak of the need for early elections, and to argue, according to Yushchenko himself, that after the early elections, the composition of the Supreme Council will remain the same, but only the coalition's strength will increase and the number of members of the coalition will increase, as evidenced by one thing: Yushchenko knows, he will lose again after the early elections. Its aim is, therefore, not to paralyse the composition of the Supreme Council, to paralyze, as they assume this week as a result of a meeting of the National Security Council on Friday, the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, and to focus power in the hands of Yushchenko, to establish a dictatorship. Why is this being done? I recall once again that in 2004, based on the support of the Americans, Yushchenko made a commitment to make Ukraine a territory controlled by the Americans, to make it a NATO member and to make it a bulwark against Russia and against the CIS. Today, the President's Secretariat is constantly discussing the introduction of an emergency situation. I reiterate that, to this end, President Yushchenko has changed the composition of the National Security Council and has led those who will defend and defend its interests. There are United States advisers in the President's Secretariat, who today provide appropriate consultations, the Security Services in the areas begin to sign various documents, staff, I mean, officers, to be loyal to the President. I would like to emphasize once again that the main threat to the country's destabilization in Ukraine today is the Ministry of Defence, and the faction of Communists insists that the Ministry of Defence be removed immediately from the duties of the Minister of Defence of Gristenka, who has received education in two special educational institutions in the United States of America and is implementing their programmes. I believe that the President's decisions to reinstate internal forces, as well as other acts of law enforcement, should be alarming today. Conclusion: It is clear that the main policy or main effort is focused by the President on the division of Ukraine, and you understand that respected voters, especially those living in the western areas, are aware of how the entire orange team spoke a few months ago about the threat to the national security of Mr. Girinovski's Ukraine. Once Mr. Girinowski said that he supported the criminal order Yushchenko, he had already been removed from it, and he believed that he was a citizen who should enjoy special support from the President. I mean, once again, I would like to stress that, in other ways, the illegal, criminal ways of Yushchenko and his agents cannot fulfil their obligations to the Americans. But I would like to emphasize, dear comrades, what the threat of today is, as a result of what I have said before. The threat is that over the years of independence, and the orange team has shown it, we have formed a team of national, nationalist narcissists, boastful and self-loving, who have lost all objectivity in assessing what is happening to us in Ukraine. And today, of course, it is trying to resolve the issue of accelerated accession to NATO, the AI problem, the influence on old Europe and the Russian Federation through the capture of control of the gas transport system, which is what Americans are doing today. The threat and the possible control of the South Seas, which is the issue of strategic areas of defence for the same Russian Federation. I'm not talking about Russia today, I'm talking about new points of tension that will complicate these same problems that we face today. Therefore, comrades, their policies today have only led to one thing: they have directed their efforts to destroy parliamentaryism, to increase social tension, to break ties with Russia in the supply of gas. Timoshenko and Yushchenko are a team of road sweepers. They have made efforts today to halt investment, decommission inflation and the tensions of the economy. They don't need an early election. They need mechanisms today to restore the dictatorship they seek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u7	Sergey the Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. I, I don't have a political speech. But since there is one subject, I would like to express a few thoughts first of all as a person, as a citizen, and, of course, as a politician, because I have been in this policy for 20 years. When preparations were made for the 15th anniversary of independence, the President’s Secretariat worked on the scenario. I was then the minister of justice. This scenario provided for official acceptance in the territory of St. Sofia. Although my colleagues ’ proposal and proposal for action were not on the field but, rather, on the Sofia field, on the Sofia Square, near Sofia, where the Ukrainian state began, from the princes of Kiev, and where the gathering of Ukraine, the UN, stands, near the monument of Prince Volodymyr of Kiev, was declared. And the concept that we proposed, including myself, to the President, to carry the festivities of this magnitude to the Sofia Strip, to the Sofia Square, there our roots, there's Russian land, there's Ukrainian land, and there's our spirituality, our nationality, but not to drink booze in Sofia. The president did not listen to this advice. I watched with sadness the vodka spill on that holy land, where there is still a holy temple and a sarcophagus, as scientists prove, with the remains of one of our great national men. I could not and could not understand such an attitude toward the sources of Ukrainian spirituality and the sanctity of this place. The same was true when I saw that the President of the Great Saturday before the Resurrection of Christ, in an hour or two, stood back to the altar, but on the street in St. Sofia, and was involved in politics. He gives a political speech. That's outrageous. We have a church divided from the state. I would have understood if we had a Swedish state church, and the monarch or prime minister were going to the temple, because the church and the state are the only whole. We have a church divided. And so to use once again the holy place for political speeches, and especially on such a day and before that night, it is a sacrament. Last year, I joined the street in the Secretariat of Great Politics, and the situation is getting worse. That's what I'm talking about. And taking people out to Midan, taking them out to the streets is difficult, but taking them out of the street is also difficult, maybe even more difficult. More difficult, without losing face, explaining the logic of such behavior and all the participants, for every citizen of his age understands that he is carrying out some kind of political action and would like to have an explanation as to what she has given him, what she has given society. It's hard to get out of this situation that's unfolding, it's going to get worse, probably tomorrow, after tomorrow -- it's going to be culminative in a certain amount of stuff. And when politicians today discuss this subject, in what way, how to find a way out of the situation, it is clear that this is a compromise. We need to find a compromise solution, which, first of all, has satisfied the political structures, but most important, to satisfy society. And what should be the basis for making this decision optimal? I don't think there's two reasons here, if the Constitution is based on these decisions, then it's the right thing to do. Then we'll figure it out. If there are any polytechnics outside the Constitution, there will be no stability or reliability in such a decision. I'd like us to get out of this constantly, working on legislation, appreciating the political situation, interfering with its development in one way or another, because it's not just a coalition, it's the same thing as opposition. I hope that there's also the vast majority of the people responsible they think, they're watching events unfold, they can imagine and, I think, and they understand that in a situation where they're involved in the solution, very often they can get out of control. And it has to be avoided, because then all of this will mean the positions of political structures to some extent provocative or provocative, not civic. I'd like us to understand that, take responsibility for developments and again seek compromise on the basis of the Constitution. On the basis of the Constitution, I emphasize that. It's about Gristenka. Give it to me. I'm going to make a protocol report or a proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers based on a discussion that has already been made yesterday and today, and proposals have been made for the staffing strengthening of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u9	Because tomorrow's session of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u10	I'll sign it, I'll sign it today. The protocol part will prepare the relevant information, and the procedure for dealing with this issue is specific, it's set out in the Rules, you know. The Cabinet of Ministers will be defined, and then we'll decide. Let us turn to the questions that are being asked today. We need to consider the draft Law on the State System for the Social Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities Pathology and Resistance. It's a national deputy Savosin's project, he's been handed over on January 11th, and it's been before the committee since March 20 about the drafting of this document. Radziewski Aleksei Vasilovich of the Committee Yeah, I need a reporter. Where's Gennady Anatolyovich? Teeth? Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled People of Cibenko. Dear Alexander Alexander, I would like once again to make a proposal to the leadership of the Supreme Council, to the colleagues of the National Deputies, that, in appreciation of our time, during this week, I would like to propose that we consider these bills, which, at the present time, are first. And secondly, they're supported by profile committees. So that our CPD can be much higher with you. That's the first one. The other one. As for the bill that was introduced by the national deputies Savosin and Zubko. I want to say that the committee welcomes any initiative by our colleagues to increase social protection for people with special needs. And this, indeed, those of the National Deputies who have been on our committee for once, may have pointed out that we are very kind to any initiative. I am absolutely convinced that the people's deputies, by introducing this bill, acted on principle as best they could. But I would like to say that this document is somewhat late because, to this day, the Law on the Rehabilitation of the Disability of Ukraine, adopted on October 6, 2005, has been passed, and the principles of which, in fact, solve the problem that is the subject of this bill. The second thing I was going to say. The point is that today, given some differences between the Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine and the rules of the Budget Code, there is some disagreement, and there are some problems in this connection with the financing of those rehabilitation centres, and we have up to 400 of them to finance them. That is why the problem is now under consideration in the Cabinet of Ministers, and it will soon be resolved. I am absolutely convinced that then we can go back to this problem. Third. On the day of the government we held here, in this room, in October 2006, we discussed a set of problems related to the implementation of the National Programme of Employment and Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. And by summarizing the use of this program -- social protection programmes for people with special needs -- a decision has been taken here in this Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine on what has been done with the previous programme, taking into account some problems, some situations that have not been included in the previous programme, to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the development of a new programme in this plan covering the period 2007-2011. Therefore, in view of these three circumstances, the committee, after a careful consideration of the draft law that is proposed, believes that this bill needs some work until a number of the problems that have been mentioned a little bit earlier are in line with the current legislation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and so on and so forth. Therefore, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, addressing the problem of strengthening social protection for disabled people, people with special needs, however, believes that this bill cannot be supported at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u12	Is there a question for Peter Stepanovich? None. Have a seat, please. One of the authors of the bill, Yuri Zubko, is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, national MPs, distinguished Alexandre Alexandrovich, the law that I and the national deputy Savosini have introduced today is very important in order to support children with disabilities. And we studied it very carefully after this bill was introduced, along with the members of the Committee on Veterans, Disabled Persons, Pensioners. Taking into account the committee's recommendations and the statements made today by the People's MP Dibenko, I believe that it is necessary to finalize this bill, work with government institutions and accept it afterwards in general, which would still allow for a higher level of service for children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u14	There's no question, I take it, to Yuri Grigorovitch. None. Have a seat, please. Deputies! While this bill refers to a relatively small part of society, who once had contact with institutions that treat such children or that are familiar with families or family members, it can confirm the importance of this document. This is especially true of a group of children who suffer from cerebral palsy and other similar diseases. So, clearly, the relationship between society and these representatives of our society needs to be regulated, and by virtue of the morals, the humanity of our society, the demographic situation and many other circumstances. All these circumstances need to be reflected in the document, so obviously the position of the committee and the expert board is justified. They are willing to speak on this matter or. Yes. Sign up, please. The factions first. And then the MPs sign up. Not the heads of factions. They're not factions. Herman Hanna has the word. Who? Oh, she won't speak. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich. Who? Oh, Baranowski. Please, Alexander Petrovich. You can go to the rostrum, you can go.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u15	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Alexander Alexandrovich, I support the entire faction of the proposal you made today regarding this bill. But there's something else I'd like to say. Now, according to various estimates of the police and other services, more than 70,000 people have come to Kiev to support the actions of the coalition, the Supreme Council, which we are conducting, and have come to support us in the plan of repealing the President's decree on the early cessation of the Supreme Council. On this point, I would like to say the following. What has happened is that, unfortunately, not the President today is the guarantor of the Constitution, but he is the guarantor of the Constitution of those people who have come to Kiev to stand on Maidan, arguing that the Constitution is sacred to all: both the President and every citizen of Ukraine. We, the factions, many of the national MPs, will participate in this rally by speaking to and associating with the rallyers. I would ask that, on behalf of the Supreme Council, if the Supreme Council were to give a mandate to the national MPs who would take part in the Maydan talks, that they would be able to thank, on behalf of the Supreme Council, those who are in the area who are not accounted for in their time, or, perhaps, in health, come from various parts of Ukraine to protect democracy, to protect the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u16	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. I understand that your statement was about the issue under discussion through the word “health”. I'm asking you to come closer to the subject, because I can't stop the meeting. But you are right: After the conclusion of our meeting, all who feel this responsibility must meet people or those who feel this need. Vitali Jakovitch Šibko, please. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u17	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Regrettably, behind the political debates that are so far in existence, there are common life-related topics that cannot help but worry us who cannot but be concerned about the Ukrainian citizens who live in Ukraine. And that is the pain of those parents who have these children -- children with disabilities -- who face these problems every day, which they face every day, of course, can be understood and evaluated. And you know, when you communicate with this category of people, it seems like a person, I mean the parents of these children, they're willing to do everything, they're willing to spend their lives, they're willing to give their whole lives to alleviate the suffering of these children, so that they can develop properly so that they can feel normal in society, so that they can have confidence in tomorrow. In the State, unfortunately, the system is not fully operational or operational. There are private structures today, there are mechanisms that work on a social basis, there are organizations and associations today that bring together these parents for their own benefit. And these parents, so to speak, are drawn to each other in order to somehow, so to speak, find the same-minded, connect the children so that they don't, so to speak, feel their harm and, so to speak, get the satisfaction of this life. That's why this bill is very important. Why? In order to create a state system that is adapted to our State structure for the protection of childhood, the protection of the medical system that exists to date. Therefore, we are in favour of adopting this bill, even though it is denied in the first reading. Perhaps this could be done to highlight the subject. And start working on this very important, very sinister problem. We have, in fact, tens of hundreds of such questions, and it's unfortunate that our lives sometimes end up with political ambitions, someone's so-called dissatisfactions, and that's exactly what these problems are. The problems that today concern our people directly, our citizens. We therefore propose that this project be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more willing to speak on this matter. I think we should still listen to the position of the committee, which is supported by the drafter of the bill. What's this about? Here Sergey Anatoliyovich Matviyenkov, speaking, was absolutely right, that in a family where such a sick child is, in fact, the center, the height of the family’s life, it becomes, unfortunately, a child’s illness. And who, for example, was in the center of Kozyavkina in Truscavek, where more or less effective treatments were found for such a disease or other institutions were associated with such patients or family members, he saw that this was a key problem for the people who had encountered it. All matters of politics and others have secondary meaning. Because everything around this trouble is spinning. Clearly, then, we also need to provide for a step in this law to support those who suffer from such a disease, families who suffer in this way. So that there's hope for people that the disease can be overcome, at least create conditions for more or less normal lives for these people. You understand very well that the services of this center that I have already mentioned, and the talented team of Professor Kozyavkin, few can. Because it's actually a German center today, they put a lot of money there and they come in for treatment. And it would be wise for us to anticipate in the budget, and in the relief system, such families would be able to provide for the needs of these people. So that's why, coming out of this need, I think it was right for the committee to work out this project in a way that all of these sides are reflected, and to harmonize it with another system of legislation, including those relating to the protection of human health. That's why I'm putting to the vote a draft ruling from the 2845-17 committee on the drafting of this bill. I ask you to determine by voting. [[10:45:45.]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. In your work plan for today, there are several bills that are proposed to be considered -- not a few -- but actually the rest of the bills are proposed to be considered in a simplified procedure. If the session is determined this way, if the plenary session is determined this way. That's why I'm putting this motion to a vote, to consider the following issues under reduced procedure. Please. [[10:46:35]] For 251 Offer accepted. This is how the bill, 2491 its registration number, is being considered by the government. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine. [[on bringing the standards of these codes into line with international standards]] Report by Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u19	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, the bill that is proposed can be described briefly as a project aimed at humanizing criminal penalties and their execution. First of all, the changes made to the Criminal Procedure Code should be noted in Article 156, which sets maximum terms for the custody of the defendant as a precautionary measure. And the need to develop such changes is linked to the need to eliminate the causes of the violation by Ukraine of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. In addition, changes that also involve creating conditions for correction and preventing new crimes from being committed by convicted persons and others should be noted. It is proposed to exclude from the Ukrainian Criminal Code the concept of “resocratisation of convicted persons” because such a purpose and the task of Ukrainian criminal law enforcement is not in line with the aims of punishment set by the Criminal Code of Ukraine. There is a ban on discrimination against convicted persons on the basis of race, colour, sex, language, political and other beliefs, the extension of public control powers, and without special permission, will be allowed into the territory of the institutions for the execution of sentences by members of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, whether human or not, or one that degrades the dignity of conduct or punishment, and the head, and the members of the monitoring committees. In addition, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine will have that right, as well as by his commission to the officials of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, its territorial units. When it comes to the execution of punishments that are unrelated to the deprivation of liberty. New arrivals are expected to undergo a medical examination in order to detect infectious and other diseases during 14 days because you know what the current situation is with infectious diseases, especially tuberculosis in places of deprivation. Suggested to change the hold mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u20	Let me finish, and Alexander Volodymyrovich forgot that a reduced procedure of two minutes for the report was given. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u21	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Actually, in order to describe just the basic directions, you see that not enough is two minutes to say just what is. So obviously, I'm just going to repeat once again that the whole project, which envisions changes to the Criminal Code, to the Criminal Procedure Code and to the Criminal Enforcement Code, is designed to humanize our system to extend the types of punishments that do not provide for the deprivation of liberty, as well as those that are provided for in the Convention on the Fundamentals of Rights, Human Freedom and Citizens, so that they can be implemented into our legislation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u22	Thank you. From the Committee of Sergei Mikolaiovich Husarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u23	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The aim of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Draft Law on Change in Criminal Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes is to strengthen guarantees for the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions for the execution of sentences for the humanization of criminal penalties and their conditions. The project is designed to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations arising from its membership of the Council of Europe and approved by Presidential Decree No. 39 of 27 January 2006. It provides a clear restriction on the terms of custody of a defendant as a precautionary measure, depending on the degree of severity of the crime committed; the prohibition of any discrimination of convicted persons; the extension of the number of persons admitted to the territory of the institutions without special permission; the prohibition of holding women in areas of enhanced control; the size of the minimum living space on which European standards are condemned. [[Previously there were 3 square meters, now proposed 4 square meters]] The possibility of convicts getting legal aid from close relatives. The acquisition of the defendants' right to request the administration to submit to a conditional release from punishment or to a change that does not make the part of the sentence more mild. Easing the conditions of detention of those sentenced to eternal deprivation of liberty The novelty is that a person may be released by a court for a period of time from punishment without the particulars that characterize his conduct during the course of the punishment. This is so in cases where such a person is sentenced to public service or will restrictions if he or she is declared disabled by the first group, the second group, or in the event of a serious illness. The discharge is carried out either by the authority or by the institution responsible for the execution of the sentence. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the Committee on Law Enforcement are recommending the adoption of the project in the first reading as a basis, and please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u24	Thank you. Who would like to comment on the content of this bill, supporting it or not supporting it, please write down. You know, the rule is procedural two-for-two, two-to-one. It's just two of them. Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich gives Malinovija Petrovic’s word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u25	Out of place, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u26	Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, this bill really provides for a lot of measures that humanize the detention of people who are in the right places. I would like to remind you that, in principle, this bill is in line with the principles that are now being followed by the European Charter, and that is why our faction will support this bill. He's got a few flaws, but I think they'll be rectified by the second reading. So there is a proposal to uphold this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u28	Thank you. Chechetov, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u29	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters. Yesterday, when speaking to the media, First Deputy Prime Minister Nikolay Janović Azarov, who bears the full burden of responsibility for the financial and economic situation in the country, expressed concern that this year, which we started uniquely well, we had for the first time an economic growth rate, had probably been a better opportunity to convert economic growth into the accumulation of financial resources. And it was decided by the Government to improve social standards for pensions, salaries and from 1 April, 1 July, October and so on. Unfortunately, however, the political instability caused by the signing of the decree could undermine this economic growth and the implementation of social programmes. That is why, I think, the right decision today is that the Government must work in a tense regime, and Parliament in order not to allow the economy to collapse into a stupor, but to keep it on the path of economic growth, as it depends on raising social standards. As far as the bill is concerned. This bill aims to improve Ukraine's legislation on the criminal execution of organs and the enforcement of sentences, procedures and conditions and criminal penalties for the execution of sentences and the creation of conditions for the correction of convicted persons. To this end, amendments to the Criminal Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine are proposed. The bill aims to complement the provisions of article 111 of the Code of Administrative Offences with a new plea of violation and to strengthen the responsibility for the commission of offences provided for in articles 111, 112 and 113 of the Code of Administrative Offences. I am completely, and the faction of the Party of Regions fully supports the proposals of the authors of the law and in places appropriate. I would like to remind you that, in principle, this bill is in line with the principles that are now being followed by the European Charter, and that is why our faction will support this bill. He's got a few flaws, but I think they'll be rectified by the second reading. So there is a proposal to uphold this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u30	Thank you. Chechetov, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u31	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters. Yesterday, when speaking to the media, First Deputy Prime Minister Nikolay Janović Azarov, who bears the full burden of responsibility for the financial and economic situation in the country, expressed concern that this year, which we started uniquely well, we had for the first time an economic growth rate, had probably been a better opportunity to convert economic growth into the accumulation of financial resources. And it was decided by the Government to improve social standards for pensions, salaries and from 1 April, 1 July, October and so on. Unfortunately, however, the political instability caused by the signing of the decree could undermine this economic growth and the implementation of social programmes. That is why, I think, the right decision today is that the Government must work in a tense regime, and Parliament in order not to allow the economy to collapse into a stupor, but to keep it on the path of economic growth, as it depends on raising social standards. As far as the bill is concerned. This bill aims to improve Ukraine's legislation on the criminal execution of organs and the enforcement of sentences, procedures and conditions and criminal penalties for the execution of sentences and the creation of conditions for the correction of convicted persons. To this end, amendments to the Criminal Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine are proposed. The bill aims to complement the provisions of article 111 of the Code of Administrative Offences with a new plea of violation and to strengthen the responsibility for the commission of offences provided for in articles 111, 112 and 113 of the Code of Administrative Offences. I am fully, and the faction of the Party of the Regions fully supports the proposals of the authors of the law and the Ministry of Justice for the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u32	Both the speakers and the reporters suggested that we adopt the draft law on the basis of the first reading, so I have no choice but to put it to the vote. It is thus proposed that the draft Decree, registration number 2491, be adopted on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:56:54]] For 252 Decision taken, thank you. A draft law, registration number 3057, amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Air Safety Violations, is being examined. This project will be reported by Anatoly Antonovich Kolesnik, deputy minister of transport and communication. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u33	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Deputies! Draft Ukrainian Law 3057 amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Air Safety Violations, designed to increase the liability of aircraft operators, owners of aircraft for violating the requirements of legislation that regulates the use of airspace and establishes and establishes administrative responsibility for the operation of unregistered aviation technology. Ukraine's draft law was agreed with the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship and received an expert opinion from the Ministry of Justice. The main task of the rules laid down in this project is to strengthen State oversight, control and enforcement measures that meet the requirements of international law. Increasing the administrative responsibility for unregistered technology will create conditions for the effective functioning of Ukrainian civil aviation and enable the implementation of a consistent aviation safety policy. An important consequence of the adoption of the bill will be the improvement of flight safety, the consolidation of Ukraine's positive image as an aviation state, which ensures the necessary level of aviation safety. The aim of the project is to harmonize the legislative field with the standards of the European United Aviation Administration and other European law governing civil aviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u34	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u35	The implementation of the act does not require additional material and other expenses from the State budget of Ukraine. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law will contribute to the creation of an effective mechanism for aviation safety oversight and control. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u36	Thank you, sit down, please. Sergey Mikolayovich Husarov of the Committee on Law Enforcement has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Air Safety Violations, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposes to strengthen administrative responsibility for violations of flight safety rules. Including international ones. conduct on an aircraft. For this purpose, article 111 of the Code is complemented by a new component that establishes administrative responsibility for the operation of unregistered aviation technology. There is a significant increase in fines provided for by sanctions 111, 112, 113 of the Code from the 3rd, which, as a matter of fact, is to the 70th untaxed minimum of citizens' income. Such proposals meet the requirements of international organizations for aircraft operators and owners. After reviewing the project, the Committee on Legislative Security considers it necessary to offer it to the Supreme Council on a first reading basis. In the process of committee discussion, warnings were made regarding the use of terminology in the project. This refers to the term “aircraft” instead of the existing term “aircraft”. In the proposed section 6 of article 111, the changes could be made during the preparation of the project for the second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the project can be adopted on the basis of a merger before the second reading of its text with other bills containing minor changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. I propose to support this conclusion and to accept the project in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u38	Have a seat, please. What Will Be the Reasoning? Anyone who would like to make a statement on this point “pro” or “against” please write down. Tarasov Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please. You didn't sign up!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u39	Deputies! Surely our faction will support this bill in the first reading. I'm like a man who's over 20 years old. I've been working on air safety, and I'd like to say, there are issues that are very necessary today to solve safe corridors and so forth. We need to adopt this bill immediately. But there are many problems that we will have to solve in the second reading. So I propose to vote in the room in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u40	Our Hero of Ukraine, Galunenko, is a professional in this field. Please. I called Galunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u41	Alexander Galunenko, faction of Party of Regions. The Transport and Communications Committee has considered the bill and supports it and proposes to be adopted on first reading. At the same time, the Committee finds the proposed administrative penalty insufficient. From six positions, the dissonance looks like, let's say, the sixth position. The Committee therefore proposes that the first five positions be raised almost to the level of the sixth position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u42	That's a good offer. In fact, it's meant to, well, make these norms, roughly dead, so that no one dares to commit a crime while doing some work, operating an airport farm, and so on. Of course, you can't compare it here, because one thing is to use prohibited or unregistered aircraft, and the other thing is to decompose fire in the airport. These are different things. But what's probably crueler is punishment for those people who want to risk doing something to the airport, I think. What it takes to predict, for it's uneven, let's say, risks. One can pay a fine, and let's say 60 or 40 minimum wages, and on the other hand, life, let's say, many dozens of people who can get into a situation. Therefore, we need to be strict about knowing that the airport is an area of great responsibility for all those involved. So for the second reading, obviously, you can make proposals and reinforce the responsibility that is provided here, so that you don't have to use these rules, that is, so that everyone follows the established rules. I'm voting on Project 3057/17 -- to adopt a draft law amending the Code. And so on. Please. [[11:06:37]] For 253 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act is under consideration, registration number 2557. For the report, here is the word Heat Oleni Vasililowni. Please. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Heater Helen Vasilovna
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill was drafted with the aim of harmonising the housing law with the provisions of the Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children. The bill provides, inter alia, that social protection facilities for homeless citizens include night homes, reintegration centers, and a social hotel. The activities of such institutions will be carried out in accordance with legislation. In the absence of social protection services for homeless citizens, documents certifying a person and civil status, the relevant local government authority shall ensure that the lost documents are restored within two months of their inclusion in such an establishment. A homeless citizen may contact a local self - government body that has registered his dominant residence to obtain social housing. Local authorities issue to homeless citizens on the day of their appeal to a social security facility for the purpose of providing temporary shelter. The absence of documents that identify a person cannot be the basis for refusing to grant temporary asylum in social security facilities for homeless citizens. On the basis of the reinstated documents that identify the person and acts of public status of the person who is being provided with reintegration services, social hotels, we can provide social housing through local self-government authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, there are now 35 welfare facilities for homeless citizens and 64 shelters in Ukraine. About 25,000 of our fellow countrymen are serving.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u44	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u45	Please support this bill. And I would like to inform you, honourable national MPs, that he has received support from the Supreme Council and the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u46	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee, please. Deputy Bertash, Vassil Bertash, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u47	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. The main purpose of the bill is to remove the disagreements between the Ukrainian Housing Fund and Social Assignment Act and on the basis of social protection for homeless citizens and homeless children in part of the existence of social protection facilities for homeless citizens. The adoption of the proposed Ukrainian law will allow for the continuation of measures to establish a single system of social services for homeless citizens through a network of social protection facilities for homeless citizens. To ensure the completion of a degree of social work with homeless citizens by providing them with social housing. At the same time, the Committee shares the General Scientific and Expert Directorate's observation, which was the only observation, to part five of article 15 of the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act, which states that a homeless citizen may be evicted from a social protection facility by decision of the institution's administration, while the matter should be decided in court. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 14 March 2007 considered the proposed bill and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading to accept it as a basis for further elaboration of the second reading, taking into account the comments made. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u48	Thank you. Thank you. If you would like to make a statement of support or support, please write down. Catherine Semenovna, you're about to receive the word, just sign up. Just don’t start with the Mountain “In the Days, ” but immediately. From the Mountain “In the Days, ” do not start, but start immediately in the essence of the law. Please, Alexandrovska and Matvienkov signed up, and you are not here. Please. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, of course, the Communist faction will support this bill, although I tell you frankly, it is frightening that in our society there is already a need to address these issues, that we really have a very large number of citizens, including children, today, by definition and by legal position, who are homeless. Privatization, which has taken place in the area of housing, in particular the privatization of apartments, has led many people to be thrown into the streets. As my deputy, I was a member of the Kharkiv District Council, and I had to face a situation where single old people were thrown into the streets and actually took away their homes. Some have been able to decide by turning to the courts, the law enforcement authorities, and something is impossible because people are often guilty of signing documents without considering the consequences of their signatures and their decisions. Therefore, the bill must, of course, be supported and the Communist faction will be supported. There's only one position. Article 15, which refers to the conditions of eviction from this social housing, gives these people four reasons: of their own accord; of their own accord; of their own accord, of their own accord; of their own accord, of their own accord; of their own accord, of their third residence; of their own accord, of their own accord; and of their own accord, of their own accord. I think that the fourth position should be deleted, because if there are any situations in which this person should be evicted and there is no first, let alone reason for his own wish or no other housing, then we should go to court. And the administration of that body, with such powers, must perform this function. I therefore propose the adoption of this law, but delete the fourth subparagraph in the fifth paragraph of article 15. Thanks for taking the picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Matvienkov. John Mikolaiovich is handed over to Bondarczuk, the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u51	I'll start with what Alla Alexandrovna said before me. It's a shame that we have to look at such a question, but such realities, we have homeless people, we have bums, we have our citizens, and we have to sort of, in some way, temporary solutions to these problems, regulate, legalize, regulate the activities of these social protection institutions. In our committee, in the Committee on Social Policy and Work, this bill was also discussed, we voted to support it in the first reading, there are some of our wishes and observations, and we have prepared them in accordance with the Rules and sent them to the committee of profile in preparation for the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u52	Thank you. We discussed this project. In fact, even without such motivation, such a moral-political? About how sorry we are that we have to adopt such a bill. We have to bear in mind that we should have such a bill, even if we didn't have exactly that category of population, in order for the state to be ready to deal with the problems of a particular person who got into a particular situation. I did not accidentally, when I spoke to Catherine Seminevna, touch on the subject of the Mountain at the bottom. You've seen people down to the bottom of their spiritual world, thinking about the meaning of life, the height that people sometimes don't mention in everyday situations, or those who are raised to some height in the social hierarchy, forget that there are eternal themes. To do so, we must adopt such a law so that we do not lose our ability to feel that way. So by supporting the proposals that were made here, I'm putting this project to the vote for adoption in the first reading. Please. [[11:17:07]] For 246 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on changing the target use of agricultural land]] Silchenko Vasil Andriyovich is invited to the rostrum, the Ukrainian National Deputy, and the Secretary of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Use.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u53	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on changing the purpose of land use provides for amendments to the Earth Code. to Ukraine's Land Authority Act and Ukraine's Land Code, aimed at improving the legislative regulation of the land administration on land structure issues and the consideration and approval of land-use documentation. By purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u54	Vasil Andriyovich, don't worry, take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u55	The aim of the proposed bill is to ensure the efficient and rational use of agricultural land, as well as the establishment of a procedure and order for the change of destination, the targeted use of designated land. The need for legislation has been due to the recent trend towards the chaotic and natural nature of the adoption by district government administrations of regulations that change the targeted use of land for farming and other purposes, such as private agriculture. The removal of agricultural land from commercial agricultural production is usually aimed at bypassing the moratorium on the alienation of the specified land as set out in chapter 10, paragraph 15, of the Ukrainian Code of Land. At the same time, 100 percent of the land in private agriculture is sold to large landowners. At that time, peasants, who are in dire need of agricultural land, lose their ability to own it. The foregoing leads to corruption at all levels of government and local self - government, the illicit enrichment of individuals, and the violation of social justice. In view of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u56	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u57	Lands must be protected for agriculture. The adoption of this bill will have the following positive consequences. First. The introduction of a temporary ban on the purpose of land-use change for agriculture and other agricultural goods until the issue of the change in the purpose of use is addressed by a legal and regulatory act which is foreseen in the law. A legislative solution to the issue of land-based documentation on the basis of which a change in land use is necessary. Next. Designed and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to change the purpose of land use, which is privately owned by citizens and legal persons. On the basis of the order established and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the order of the construction of the projects will be established by an arrangement that will provide environmental and economic justification for the arrangement of contracts. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the Ukrainian budget. The committee considered the bill and recommended that it be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u58	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word has the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Fedorovich Beveljenko, please. And you've already reported together, you're on the same committee. Yeah, yeah. Then who would like to comment on the content of this document, referring to the need to accept it more quickly, for it is a relationship or a legal relationship that is still under way today. Please sign up. Kruglov Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u59	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I'd like to make one point to the authors. You know that in time, the target assignment of the land may change because the fertility of the land itself is declining. For example, at all times a farmer may have been able to move to pastures and so forth. With the adoption of this law, it may be possible for the owner of this land to make a change or not, or this bill will clearly cross over the right to change its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u60	Mikolo Petrovich, you may have asked questions instead of expressing your thoughts. So I'll tell you, because to some extent, it had something to do with the adoption of a whole set of laws concerning the earth. It is a matter of drafting by law acts, regulations, and procedural actions of all things related to property change and relationship and changing the purpose of land use. So there's no lock that doesn't allow change, and it's about sorting this process, making order. You may have noticed how excited Vasil Andriyovich was to report this document because he was really worried about the authors and the committee and responding to the situation that occurred today regarding land use. So I support the committee's proposal and the report on putting it to the vote in the first reading. I'm betting on a vote of 2610 this bill, please. [[11:23:51]] For-89 I don't get it. What is it? 89 — ‘for’. Huh? Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u61	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, this is indeed an important bill that needs to be adopted, not for a branch, but for work and benefit both the people and the state. And I think that what we've decided to do with this regime of work in Parliament and in committees is to allow us to work out this bill and in a few days, on Tuesday, on that week, to submit a revised bill to the Supreme Council and to adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u62	Mikhail Vasilovich, this may be such a reflection, of course. But in my view, when we're in the process of law relations and we're seeing massive violations of the interests of people and the state, we need to vote in favour of a project that normalizes these relationships but does not create obstacles to the realization of human rights. I am convinced that we can work on the second reading. And we're voting in the first reading, and the content document is concise, it's simple, and I think we're making a mistake if we're going to go to work, because that's how we have to write, and what we have to work on. It's clearly written here, and there are no restrictions, no warnings, no questions about order. I'd like to support you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Well, let's exchange thoughts -- five minutes -- for that matter. Write down for a moment to express your opinion on this subject. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u63	I'd like to give Matthew the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u64	Please, Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u65	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. My fellow Members, I think that National MP Silchenko, as one of those authors of this bill, has very clearly expressed to us the positions that are being added to this bill today, namely the laws that are in force for change. concerning changes in the targeted use of agricultural land. How can we today fail to uphold the standards that, on the contrary, guide order in this very important area? It's about land-based projects that provide environmental-economic justification for the arrangement, so I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u66	That is, he does not support the proposal for a vote in the first reading on necessity. Give me your word. Now, now you'll have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u67	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! And once again, this is very real. A really important bill and we can agree to adopt it in the first reading, but let the committee work again to get us out in the next week's second reading of the bill that both the state and the people need. I suggest you take the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u68	Thank you. That's different. Yes, Katherine Seed? May I vote or will you speak again? Well, give Catherine a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u69	Thank you very much, Alexander Alexanderovich. I just want to talk to my colleagues. If we want all of our Ukraine to turn into what is now being done in Crimea: without documents, without official selection of land, the profile of these lands is changing and so on, then of course we will not vote for it. But I think our National Unity Coalition came, not for a year or two, but for a long time, to bring order to our nation, really a real order. We are the masters on this earth and the people who support us, including under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in various fields. And I think it's going to be absolutely right, and it's going to be a gift to them that we're going to do with you guys in such a way that we can legally ensure order in land relations. I think we can all support this. Well, those who didn't come to the session, that's their business. And we are the masters of our land, and we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u70	Then I want to put it to a vote, if you don't mind those who signed up, because the time has come to put a re-voting proposal on acceptance as a basis. Yeah? Return to the vote on this matter. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Procedure. [[11:29:38]] For 252 Then I put to the vote the draft Law in the first reading, 2610 the registration number of it. There's a vote coming. [[11:30:02]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the quality assurance of imported agricultural products]] Here is the spokesman for the designated Ukrainian National Deputy Parubko Omelyan Nikonović. And the co-reporter is Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, on November 16, 2006, the Veterinary Medicine Act was passed. And this law was deleted from the voice of Llapina, from “Our Ukraine”, and deleted mandatory certification. But we know that with the adoption of this law, streams are coming to us, especially through our western borders, streams of bad meat, milk, butter, and all other foods. And we know what this leads to: To this day, peasants working in the common sector are practically refusing to hold cows, pigs, and second head. And this has led to the fact that this law has given us the effect that we're being deprived of cheap products, but it, this product, today, does not meet the standards of both European and Ukrainian. And this law, which is being passed on to you, is being passed. Nevertheless, we need to introduce certification because we have a legitimate state authority, a State standard that is required to control, along with the veterinary service and the health service, the control of these products. And I think this law is going to put order in this area. And this law does not need any financial support. Please consider this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u72	Thank you, sit down, please. Sergei Mikolaiovich, I don't see you actually discussing this issue on the committee, do you? Huh?Oh, my God! So you're also reporting this proposal from the committee. Who would like to comment on this? Jadhu Vasil Semenović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u73	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! Indeed, the bill has tremendous weight. We spoke on our committee and, of course, came to one language, to support the bill. After all, we all know what is happening to us today, especially in meat factories and dairy factories. Especially meat - processing businesses. We know what's going on in private industries, how products come from abroad, how they meet sanitation requirements, how they're delivered, how they're used. Therefore, making appropriate adjustments to the mandatory certification of the product is essential. Because today, in the example of our peasants, we can see that they've lost all sense of growing cattle and birds and understandable of animal production. Because if you look at price policies, especially in the field of cattle, it becomes clear that through transparent borders, through imported non-quality products, our peasants are practically alone with their problems. Therefore, as never before, we must defend our own country’s agricultural producer and accept appropriate changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u74	Thank you. I explain to those who use the “Council” system. Under a reduced procedure, when you sign up for a speech, if you support a project, you vote in favour, if you don't support it, you vote "against". And you just take the "word" press. So for the second time, you will take a closer look. Let's put it to the vote. Both Omelyan Nikonovich and the drafter of this bill, one of the developers, need to pay attention to such details. For example, the Winnie’s meatcombinate makes sausage. And meat was brought from Poland. The sausage is certified. So, then, you don't have to certify the meat? [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u75	And it says here, except for raw materials, which are exclusively for this kind of thing. They've been imported. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u76	Yes. In short, the authors insist that it is necessary to vote. So I'm putting this project to a vote in the first reading as a basis, and then we're going to consult for the second time. [[11:36:00]] For 240 Decision taken. From the committee there was an offer and, in general, an acceptance of this law. Is there a need? You can vote for it in general. I put it to a vote then, as a whole, to adopt this law. [[11:36:35]] For 243 Decision taken. If there is to be further clarification, do another project, a supplement. All nuances must be adjusted, but in itself this project is important. Please consider the draft law, Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Milk and Milk Products, registration number 3047. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products to the indicators established by Ukraine's legislation and standards]] A report is provided on this account bydent Mikhail Vasilovich. I can't see Mikhail Vasilovich's tooth. And I can't see Ryzuka Sergey Mikolaiovich. I didn't know what it was. Are you from the committee? Secretary of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Silchenko Vasil Andriyovich, please. He gave you the committee, didn't he? Right. Please. It takes time for them to form at the right time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u77	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 13 March 2007, reviewed the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Milk and Milk Products. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products to the indicators established by Ukraine's legislation and standards]] Registration number 3047, dated 31.01, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Zubc, Rizhik, Kirilenko. The bill aims to improve the provisions of the Law on Milk and Milk Products, which concerns the quality and safety of dairy products and the inadequacy of the regulatory framework with international standards. The project identifies terminology, quality and safety parameters, packaging and labelling, manufacturers ’ rights and obligations, veterinary and sanitary requirements. Therefore, its adoption will contribute to the production of quality dairy products, the protection of consumer rights, and the release of Ukrainian products into the world market. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products, registration number 3047, to be adopted as a basis. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products to the indicators established by Ukraine's legislation and standards]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u78	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If anyone would like to comment on this project, please sign in. Richchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u79	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Deputies! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. The quality and safety of dairy products are extremely important. Recall the incorrigible blow to the village economy when the government of Tymoshenko artificially created the so-called milk crisis, or when Russia, as one of our main consumers of our dairy products, refused to allow our production into their markets. More than a million villagers were affected, who associated their earnings with the maintenance of cows in the private sector as well as the implementation of milk. But that there is no high quality in the rural courtyards, the quality of the produce gathered today in the poor, in the pots. Clearly, only high - tech production can provide high sanitary standards and standards. The proposed bill allows for a measure of farm management in the field of production and processing of milk and milk products. The authors suggest that milk, milk, and milk products be tested. And that, I think, is the only way. True, I am alarmed that the same procedure will be followed by manufacturers and processors in accordance with the standard set here only once for five years. I think it's too liberal. It needs to be reduced to at least 3 years. This will help to improve the safety of milk and dairy products. I propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u80	Thank you. Checheva Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u81	Mikhailo Chečetov, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill aims to improve the provisions of the Law on Milk and Milk Products on the Quality and Safety of Milk Products. In particular, the terms milk raw materials, dairy products, traditional dairy products, packaging, processing, and so forth are defined. The requirements for quality and safety of milk, milk, and dairy products are specified. Changes to articles 10, 11, 13, 14 of the law, designed to improve the quality and safety of dairy products, have also been made to increase the attention of the owners to ensuring the proper quality of the produce. I literally, before that, journalists from the “5 channels” came to me and asked me a question and asked: Mr. Mikhailo, and how do you see the prospect of the President signing social bills against which the opposition is opposed? Like that, there is an opposition that urges the President not to sign the bills because the opposition is living on the principle of “what is worse for the people — the better for the opposition?” I replied that the President had gone to the polls and had said that his main goal was to improve the standard of living of people, and the coalition of national unity was at the forefront of increasing social standards. And I do not think that the President will support the destructive position of the opposition, which opposes his people, and he will support the policy of a coalition of national unity, which advocates raising the social standard of human life. And the President will not play against his people and he will sign the most important bills, which today include the one that we are adopting on the Supreme Council, as it aims to improve the standard of living of people. I suggest you take it on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-10-m0.u82	Okay. I have reason after this brief discussion to put the bill, registration number 3047, to a vote, please on the first reading as a basis. [[11:44:19]] For 252 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the bringing into conformity of legislative acts in connection with the renaming of individual government bodies]] The rapporteur is the appointed head of the Transport and Communications Committee’s subcommittee, Kruk Yuri Borisovich. Is someone on the committee ready to report this project or the Ministry? There's not a reporter who's busy on the street, so I don't think that's the reason I'm not in the meeting, I'm putting the question of transferring this bill to another plenary session. Please. [[11:45:27]] For 257 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, according to your plan of work, 10 bills are proposed for your consideration of including it in the agenda of the session. So I suggest in the list that you have, that you include these questions in the agenda of the day session, starting with 3095 and continuing with the text. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:46:22]] For 252 Decision taken. That's how I propose. I propose, I address the heads of committees, first of all, carefully look again, including those listed here, drafts on their willingness to consider, taking into account the comments from the expert board and the content of the report to Parliament in plenary session, so that you can not then meet with those colleges that sometimes arise, even during the consideration of some of the bills today. So I have an offer to focus on committee work right now, and I'm going to announce my recess until tomorrow morning's meeting by 10 a.m. Is there no objection? None. I declare the meeting closed.
