ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u1	Good day to you all, distinguished national MPs! Let me welcome you to the hall and ask you to register. I'd like you to sign up. There were 332 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please show the factions of the registration. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the entire Catholic world with Christmas Christ and all the other religions that celebrate Christmas on the Gregorian calendar. We have nouns, this is Maruszczenko Vladimir Stanislavovich. Let's welcome our colleague. Vladimir Stanislavovich, we sincerely welcome, best of all, happiness, health in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decision of the Supreme Council to meet at the appropriate plenary meeting, subject to the proper registration of our fellow members of the national parliaments, was in line with today's realities and that the following situation is extremely important, that the Central Election Commission proved its high status, that it is an independent and competent body, and that all the political forces of Ukraine have proved that none of them is in violation of the law, that the Central Election Commission is not involved in the work of the Central Electoral Commission, and that is how the Central Election Commission of Ukraine today held an appropriate meeting and in accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputees has registered 14 Ukrainian National Deputees. You and I have made decisions about this. on the opening of the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies. So on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let me thank the Central Electoral Commission for its impartiality, its independence, and the legitimate decisions made by the Central Election Commission today. We've held meetings of the Conciliation Council several times, and I'd like to inform you that this period, when the Supreme Council wasn't meeting in plenary, all the faction leaders were very active. And we've reached agreement on a number of issues that, I hope, today is a chance to hold in our room. I'll start with what we've actually completed by dividing the committees, and we've completed our approach to the personal composition of the committees. There are some inconsistencies in article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees in the formation of a number of substitutes and first substitutes. But this is a subject of compromise, and I think that those approaches that were proposed by the people's deputies are totally acceptable. That is why today, after the oath of the new 14 national deputies of Ukraine and the oath of two more persons – the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Onischuk, as a member of the High Council of Justice and Mr. Vakarczuk, as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine – we would like to take a 30-minute recess by decision of the Conciliation Council, so that the signatures can finally be placed under the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the distribution of the heads of committees, the first deputies, deputy and committee secretaries.” So, honourable national MPs, with your permission, I would like us to move on to making an oath to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Once again, the Central Election Commission of Ukraine, by decree of December 25, 2007, registered number 576 of Ukraine’s respective national deputies. I'd like to quote the names of these national MPs. These are included in the constituency block of Julia Timoshenko: Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich, Gudima Alexander Mikolajovich, Pavlovski Andriy Mihajlovich, Balura Antonina Volodymyrovna, Potapčuk Mikola Leonidovich, Koshin Sergey Mefodijovich, Šiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich and Zardny Olexy Borisovich; Block “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – Jodjik Jaroslav Ivanovich, Zeynalov Eduard Zhangirovich, Vasilko Sergi Volodymyrovich, Kendzior Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Krut Mikola Fedorovich and Parby Andrija Volodymyrovic. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Balur Antonin Volodymyrna is invited. Please, Antonina Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, Yulia Timoshenko's Block, to make an oath, Balur Antonin Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u3	Please convey to me the text of the oath attached by your signature. Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Vasilko Sergey Volodymyrovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Already a Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u5	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Congratulations, you're now a national MP after the signature. In order to make an oath to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a national deputy of Ukraine, Gudima Alexander Mikolaiovich, is invited. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people, to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u7	Thank you. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Jodzik Jaroslav Ivanovich, is invited. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u8	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to care for the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being, to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u9	Thank you. In order to make an oath on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleksius Borisovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u10	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to care for the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being, to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u11	Thank you, welcome. Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhajlovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u12	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to care for the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being, to uphold Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, to carry out my duties in the interests of all its fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u13	Welcome, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. In order to make an oath to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Koshin Sergey Mefodijovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u14	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u15	Thank you. Welcome. National deputy Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich is invited to the Supreme Council’s rostrum to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u16	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u17	Hello. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Edouard Jangirovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u18	It's an oath. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National Deputy of Ukraine, Edouard Jangirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u19	Welcome. Please pass the signed oath. Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, Ukrainian national deputy Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich is invited. To make an oath on the stand of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine, Krut Mikola Fedorovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u20	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u21	Hello. To make an oath to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine, Pavlovsky Andry Mihajlovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u22	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u23	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich. To make an oath on the stand of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Parui Andri Volodymyrovich is invited. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u24	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u25	Please hand over the signed oath. Thank you. To make an oath on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine, Potapčík Mikola Leontijovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u26	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u27	Thank you. Please pass on the text of the oath. In order to take an oath on the stand of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine, Shiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u28	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, caring for the welfare and well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u29	Thank you. Did all the Ukrainian national deputies who were registered today by the Central Election Commission take an oath? All of them. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the Entry of National Deputies, i.e.: Kravčuk Vasil Petrovich, Gudimi Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, Pavlovski Andrija Mihajlovich, Baluri Antonini Volodymirirovna, Potaknik Mikoli Leontijovich, Košina Sergija Mefodojovich, Sheyanova Boris Anatoliovich, Oleksija Borisovich, to the composition of the deputy faction “Block of Yulia Timoshenko”. Jódžika Jaroslava Ivanovich, Zejnalov Edouard Djangirovich, Vasilnik Sergey Volodymyrovich, Kendzior Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Krutja Mikoli Fedorovich and Andrija Volodymyrovich, to form part of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Also, the distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine, according to these personal statements, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the deputy faction "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" Kravczuk Vasil Petrovic, Gudimi Alexander Mikolajovich, Pavelovský Andrija Mikhajlovich, Baluri Antonini Volodymyrovny, Potpchuka Mikoli Leontijovich, Košina Sergy Mefodojovich, Shiyanova Boris Anatoliovich, Zejnalova Eduard Jangirovich, as well as the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", Jojik Jarosław Ivanovovich, Zejnalova Eduard Jangirovich, Vasilska Sergia Volodimirovich, Kendzior Jaroslavirovska Milajovica Podrukhilovichaługilovicha Dobrouptija Krukhilovicha. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how our team now operates in full force, namely: 450 nationals registered and elected by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Parliament is thus 100 percent legitimate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make another announcement, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 10 December 2007, I inform you that, instead of the authorized representatives of the MPs and the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council, they have been elected. The leader of the faction of the Party of Regions is Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich. Deputys of the faction – Bogatirirov Raisa Vasilovna, Herman Hanna Mikolayivna, Jarti Vasil Georgievic, Eframov Alexander Sergiyovich, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, Ljovčen Sergey Volodymyrovich, Makeienko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Kljev Andry Petrovich, Kljev Sergey Petrovich, Kolesnikov Boris Viktorovich, Peklusenko Alexander Mikolajovich and Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich. Colleagues, this is where our forms and announcements are completed. The only thing I would like to inform all colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies is today on the Conciliation Council when we discussed some of the legal coalitions in the Rules in terms of reducing the number of a coalition. So I, as Ukrainian national deputy, introduced to Parliament a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would very much ask all my colleagues, the faction leaders, including all the national MPs, to work out this document. This is about the skeleton, it's about the canoe, so that we don't start in the future of the legal colleges, so that we don't change the situation, or, more specifically, the Rules under one particular situation, but we've come out with a coherent position, including after the establishment of the regulatory committee, precisely with regard to changes and additions to the Rules. As we had a clear legal coalition that arose as a result of the numerical, decrease in the number of specific coalitions, but situations may be different, so I would very much like to consider this document in a more recent meeting of the Supreme Council to bring this issue to order. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we have Wednesday, so I'm asking you to sign up for the factions for five minutes. Please hold the recording. Sorry, colleagues, we have two more vows. That's why I'd like to ask Vakarczuk Ivan Alexanderovich now. On December 18, 2007, we elected John Alexanderovich as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sadly, he was not present in the hall. Therefore, according to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, Vakarcuk Ivan Aleksandrovich, as Minister of Education and Science, is obliged to accept the oath of a civil servant at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why Ivan Aleksandrovitch is your word for making an oath to a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u30	I, Vakarchuk Ivan Aleksandrovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, upholding the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, ensuring the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u31	Ivan Alexanderovich, let me welcome you. You are now a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! On December 18, 2007, he was appointed Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 17 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, a member of the High Council of Justice, and in this case acting by office, must take an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mikola Vasilovich, please invite you to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! The oath of a member of the High Council of Justice. I, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of the courts and prosecutors. Mikola Onichtuk. December 25, 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u33	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Colleagues, let's welcome the Minister of Justice with what he is now and a full member of the High Council of Justice. Honorable National MPs. We've exhausted the agenda for oaths and I'm asking you to sign up for factions for five minutes, please. Babenko Valerij Borisovich, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum, Timoshenko, Babenko Valery Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u34	Pass the word to the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u35	I'd like to give the school a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u36	Dear Chief, honourable colleagues, I would like to address you with a statement from the "Julia Timoshenko Block" concerning the creation between the factionary parliamentary union of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "Contrabandi-Stop". We inform you that on 28 November 2007, a faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Supreme Council “Contrabandi-Stop” was created in the National Assembly of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rybakov Igor Aleksandrovič, was elected as head of the faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, “Contrabandi-STOP”. The unification included representatives of various MP factions represented in Parliament, an unification open to the integration of other national MPs. Target. How a country can live, how a state can live, when there is no concept of economic boundaries in the country and in the state. We actually have a physical border when it's hard for citizens to cross it. Unfortunately, however, it is very often easy to cross the boundaries of this border without contractual goods, which do not have the right to cross without paying for the respective territories of Ukraine. How can Ukraine live if we have exports less than even without smuggling? According to a report by the State Committee of Statistics, Ukraine’s foreign trade deficit exceeded US$ 1.9 billion in 2005, US$ 6.9 billion in 2006. How can the country develop economically if a product of 173 billion dollars is produced in 9 months of the current year and a retail and wholesale product of 810 billion dollars? That is, statistics show that industry produces four times less production than it is in circulation. So we're actually the donors of the world economy. By exporting currencies, we invest in foreign production, we create Turkey, China, Poland and other countries new jobs, turning Ukraine into a market for foreign products, destroying our own production and reducing jobs, we live in debt to our descendants, we sell our future. A clear example of how smuggling of goods leads to technological situations is the tragedy in the Kerchen Strait, when the overload broke the ship and killed people and in nature caused irreparable damage, even the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, on November 19, 2007, at a meeting at the BSC, cited statistics that about 70 percent of the goods were smuggled into Ukraine, or shadowy import schemes. The quantity of imported goods is about, I ask you, 65 billion dollars, bracelets, excuse me. Well, I think it's close to dollars. I understand, of course, that it's not everyone's calling attention, especially to those who are a little bit sinning about importing goods like this, but I would recommend listening anyway. During October of this year, 450,000 tons of cargo worth 260 million dollars was imported through the seaport of Santa Claus. That is, the customs value of one kilogram of imported, imported goods through the customs office of Mikolai is 58 copies per kilogram. Someone's been dealing with this, they're aware of the number and the magnitude of this number. The situation of customs in Ukraine is catastrophic. We've turned into a country where borders are a vast wasteland. The country’s economy is dying, domestic production almost destroyed. And we work on foreign manufacturers and on our own pockets of customs and their roofs. After the change of government, customs work as on the last day, filling their bottomless pockets, robbing the already poor people of Ukraine. And after the customs officer had already been represented, there were still those representatives who were trying to create and create corruption schemes for crossing goods across Ukraine. And that is why, and for this purpose, the Interfractional Labour Union “Contrabandi Stop!” we will do our utmost to ensure the honest and transparent functioning of our customs. Anyone who is uncaring about Ukraine being a civilized European state with strong but easy to cross honest goods across borders is invited to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u37	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Litvinov Leonid Fedorovich, who gives the word of Azarov Mikoli Janovich. Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u38	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the people! There is now no more important task than the restructuring of the Supreme Council, the establishment of its working bodies, the committees of the Supreme Council and the filling of the work of the Supreme Council with substantive work, particularly the consideration and adoption of the State budget and urgent legislation. Each party has its own political platform, has its own socio-economic agenda, has programmes in other areas of reform of our country. These tasks depend on the balance of power and opposition, including in the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, only now have 14 new members of the people taken an oath. Therefore, we are not yet aware of the balance in the composition of the committees. Therefore, the Party of the Regions calls on you, Arsenija Petrovich, to organize work in such a way that we will be identified in the quantitative and qualitative composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council, after a break or at a sharp end tomorrow morning. I also draw your attention to another fact that appointments continue to be made to the executive branch of the People's Deputies. This will result in the return of the people's deputies to the committees within a certain period of time, and this may also change the composition of the committees. And I would call upon the executive to be very careful about such appointments. We are therefore ready to work constructively on the establishment of the working bodies of the Supreme Council, and we propose, Arsenija Petrovich, that you organize this work today after a recess until we come to an agreement or a drawdown tomorrow. The second important issue that the Party of the Regions would like to draw attention to. Of course, every political force comes to power and forms a budget under its pre-election pledges. It's totally normal. However, we would like to warn the current Government that the budget would not be balanced, that investment, innovation programmes have been put under the knife to reduce real health costs, housing and utilities, and so on. We will be very critical of these issues and draw your attention to the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has been taken upon the resumption of social guarantees to the population, must certainly be in full: this is what today's power has insisted on in the opposition. Today we are in opposition, so we take over the role of monitoring your own promises to our constituents. And yet another moment, respected by Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished members of the people, I would like to draw your attention to the media and through them to our people. The dismissal of professionals at all levels is unacceptable only because the flag of the party in power has changed. I call for this to be taken completely into account because the Party of the Regions, as an opposition party, will assess and draw attention to every illegal dismissal of professionals. They must serve Ukraine. All of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u39	Thank you, Mikolo Yanovich. Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, “Block of Lithuania”. The word is passed on to Tereshku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u40	The word is to pass to Tereshku Sergey Mikolaiovich, Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u41	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, television audiences! The people of Ukraine are awaiting concerted, balanced action from the Supreme Council. And what these steps are going to be, will depend on the consolidation of society. The Lithuanian Block faction always takes over everything and will take up a state position, we have protected and we will protect the interests of most Ukrainian citizens, we will protect the interests of our constituents. But today we want to draw your attention to a problem that needs an immediate solution that needs the attention of all society. I mean land problems. The problem with the land is that on December 31, a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land ends on the New Year’s Eve. It's 42 million. acres of silgligide, that's 70 percent of the land fund of Ukraine. The “Litvina Block” has repeatedly stated that in the village a critical situation that has not led to the establishment of an effective landowner has not been established today by the real master of the land. Only individual farms will be able to compete with their products if they join the WTO. Look at our villages: empty tractor brigades, broken farms, empty kindergartens, half-filled schools, young people are not in the village. There are no young people in the village, there is no future in Ukraine. And if we cancel the moratorium, the situation will be even more difficult. We recognize the right of private property to land as enshrined in the Constitution. However, we are fully responsible, the Block of Lithuania states that today the Ukrainian society is not ready for such a novelty, because so far two fundamental laws have not been passed without which the land market cannot be marketed: this is the Land Market Act, this is the Land State Cadastre Act. Work has not yet been completed on the delimitation of state and municipal property, the assessment of productive land has not yet been carried out, and its cadastral value has not been withdrawn. Not to be overlooked is the fact that a third of landowners today do not have State acts. The cessation of the moratorium will result in a hasty and uncontrollable trade in land, as was the case with privatization certificates, and this may become a sad, perhaps tragic, final of agrarian reform, and peasants may be deceived again. There is no money for farmers today to buy land, no opportunity for farmers, no credit for farmers to buy land again. Opponents of the moratorium today assure us that after the movement of the land, after the purchase and sale of the investment will flow into the village. All of this from the wicked one. The fact that the Earth Code provides that there may be no more than 100 acres [100 ha] of land in one hand, what can be done about two - pressurized farms, three acres [3 ha] of land? Do you want to cut into the stogs? What technology can be applied? What changes can be made on a hundred hectares? What does our faction suggest in this situation? First, to continue the land moratorium, to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. We've registered the relevant bill in the Supreme Council, so let's accept this bill without discussion. The other one. At all levels of government, all matters of land relations are governed by the Earth Code, which clearly states that sales of land can only be made when basic laws are passed – the Land Market Act and the State Land cadastre Act. Third. We need to conduct a short inventory of land -- state, municipal and private property. We also need to adopt a law on mortgage banks, on land removals for social needs, and including for the needs of territorial communities. And finally, it's the main thing. The state must be an active player in the land market. Government authorities should first be able to buy land and then rent it to those who work on earth. The whole point of agrarian reform was to create an effective owner. We wanted the earth to be used by those who work on it; the land’s owners are those who work, but they do not have the means today. Therefore, the State must buy land and rent it back. The Block of Lithuania understands that it is difficult to find funds for this, but believe me, how many lands around Kiev around large industrial centres today have changed their targets. All of this cost millions of dollars, and all of this money was left in the pocket of adversarial shops. Therefore, the faction of the “Block of Lithuania” expects understanding from political parties, from other factions. We hope that the government will understand our proposals, and most importantly, we hope that we will find support in all those people who love our Ukrainian land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u42	Thank you. Timoshenko Mikhailovich, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u43	Respectable colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets! The year 2007 is ending, but we regret to admit that we have been living in Ukraine since 2005 in crises and conflicts, economic instability and social divisions. Ukraine, which is now balancing on the face of a national disaster. We must also acknowledge that the political crisis has weakened the State and that large capital has been given the opportunity to control its excesses, without caring for social responsibility to society, before the country. The Yushchenko regime has created the maximum conditions for the bloom of oligarchy and corruption. Yushchenko imposes its nationalistic values and seeks to strengthen its authoritarian positions. We have witnessed the transfer of property, the persecution of political opponents, the constant crises for which more than one billion people and financial groups earn money. However, Ukraine will face a number of objective challenges in 2008. It is clear that, at the current foreign policy course, we are facing new trade wars with our neighbours and new geopolitical adventures, flooding and the housing and utility crisis, increasing the financial burden on our ordinary trainee, a regular consumer. The destruction of peasants, the deprivation of their property to the earth, awaits us as well. The moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is being attempted by the new authorities today, in fact, to be buried, and since 2008, we will see a total pool of land, oligarchic wars to control this area. The Ukrainian agriculture will be subordinated to the interests of transnational corporations that have little concern for the needs of the Ukrainian population. Next year we will face another acute problem: labour migration. The EU has already dropped the Schengen curtain on our western borders. Millions of Ukrainian gasterbaiters working in Poland, Italy, Portugal will now complete the army of the unemployed. However, the flow of labour migrants from the South and the East into Ukraine, for which the road to Europe will be closed. With its goal of joining the WTO at any cost, the Yushchenko regime has in fact given control over the national economy to foreign administrators whose social rights of Ukrainians are fictitious. The company and the faction of it in Parliament will require a strict review of Ukraine's budget for the following year to deal with specific issues. This is, of course, all the benefits provided by legislation for veterans, disabled persons, women, orphans, students and so on, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, should all be recorded in the budget. We will scrupulously demand a solution to the issues of the return of savings and the consideration of the proposals made by the faction. We believe that the law on children of war should be mandatory in the budget for the following year. We must make provision for a moratorium on the sale of land, increased assistance for the birth of a child, especially attention, and will monitor it in the budget, to help orphans. Of course, there is a need to increase the scholarship for students from 30 to 50 per cent. I believe that consideration of the budget for the following year should be supported by the proposal of the Company that all concessions that today face some difficulties in transport, transport, should be supported and all their transport services paid. We are also convinced that every effort must be made to support our native farmer, that is to say, to really support our village, and above all, this is the development of livestock and birds. We also believe that the Communist faction must take immediate action to strengthen control over the activities of the official bodies and the crimes committed by them. I must or would like to propose once again to all of us, our respectable comrades, to consider and, if necessary, accept and require the President to sign the law establishing special commissions of inquiry. I am convinced that the functions of the Court of Auditors need to be changed and expanded as much as possible, especially in terms of monitoring the use of each working copy. These powers are extended to possible investigations and transfer of these crimes already investigated to the courts. The Company's faction sees its practical activities as activities that should help our people protect their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u44	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" Block. Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u45	Lilia Grigorovich, faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the Honourable Voters! At this time, when much of the Christian world is celebrating Christ's Christmas, and we in Ukraine have entered the last pre-war week, it would be very good and even legitimate if the Ukrainian Parliament, the whole of the Ukrainian Parliament, had made the most important gift to the Ukrainian people and adopted that basic document — the 2008 budget. In no way do I agree with the previous speaker, whose motive was: “The storms of the enemy roar over us”, and especially over Ukraine. A week ago, we had a very good time, but literally a week later, things got really bad. We don't have to call for more trouble on such prewar days in the voice of Ukraine, because we've come out for a new quality rubble, and that quality depends on us, on the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to remind you once again that not a month has passed, but a month has passed since the Ukrainian Parliament took an oath on December 23, as we have the elected Head of the Supreme Council, as we have the elected government, which made an oath, as we finally have the parliamentary majority, which has been said to be so empty and empty. In view of the faction "Our National Self-Defense" that we hope, and we will make every effort to ensure that the newly adopted budget implements all the initiatives of the President's social community, namely to raise the minimum wage to $600, as well as to raise the salaries of workers in the entire budget area, and to increase pensions by 35 per cent for all our citizens, taking into account the workforce, to increase the child's pay to 12,000, to 15th and third, to 25,000. We also want to make sure that all these increases and improvements in social standards are in no way relevant to national MPs. We will be very persistent, and we will be confident that not only the coalition, but the entire parliament will join in removing those parliamentary benefits that prove that the law is one for all, for the Ukrainian Parliament. Once again, we show Ukraine the new quality that the Ukrainian people look forward to for the good 16 years. And finally, I'd like to say a few words about what we call reprisals. Dear friends, respected Ukrainian citizens! There are people in this room who are born in the gulags, and they work among us. There are people in this room who have been forced to deny their parents, and they work among us. The only reason they are born in Siberia is because their parents wore an embroidered shirt. You've never heard of any of us sneezing or squawking on this subject, as you never heard of the sneezing and squawking on our part when we were in the opposition for years. It seems to me that the greatest party and the largest faction in our Parliament have been served by polytechnologists who have put in the mouths of two-metre-old health - care uncles of the chimney and howling about some sort of reprisal. Open an interpretative dictionary and read it. And the biggest faction of the council, release those polytechnologists, they set you up. It is very good and helpful when political power is able to guard national interests both in power and in opposition. Happy and successful people who have the authority to keep on the watch of national interests. Twice a happy and successful nation that has opposition to national interests. Only in opposition, I tell you, brothers of the greatest faction, you gain strength, power to be successful further. Only in opposition do you draw closer to the people. So I think they've put together a lot of leaders who talk about their persecution for a few days in a row. Moving away from the dining room for a while is not repression, it's good for the Ukrainian people and for you. In view of this, I hope that the Ukrainian Parliament, with the power, the majority that is guarding national interests, and the opposition that is guarding national interests, will implement the 2008 budget with the President's social initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u46	Thank you. In summary, I would like to make a few comments using the right conferred on me by article 28 of the Rules. The first question is about interfractional mergers. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, neither the Supreme Council of Ukraine nor the Ukrainian Law on the Status of National Deputies of Ukraine defines the legal concept of interfractional unification. However, two groups of national deputies have already asked me to announce the registration of interfractional mergers at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. In view of this, I have commissioned the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider preparing a draft amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation in order to bring the issue of interfractional mergers into line, since today it is no more than a declaration. In doing so on our Conciliation Council, as soon as the apparatus is working on the draft amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we will immediately forward you with the appropriate proposals. The other one. With regard to the Committee Distribution Ordinance. I'd like to point out once again that we didn't just spend four days doing that, but we worked four days. This is a draft of the Ordinance on the Distribution and Consolidation of Committees initiated by all authorized factions. So now, if we go to the break that we asked for, I hope we're finally going to document the personnel warehouse, because we've done 99 percent of the work. One percent left. Question three. With regard to the statement concerning those Ukrainian national deputies who were appointed to the executive branch. I would like to point out that in accordance with article 78 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 81 of paragraph 5 of the Constitution, incompatibility may last for no more than 20 days. That's why I'm asking the Ukrainian National Deputies, who have been elected, and more specifically, appointed to the executive authorities, to write appropriate applications for the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Otherwise, in accordance with article 218 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be obliged to issue orders: first, to block cards and second, to prohibit payment of wages. So, colleagues, 20 days from your appointment to the executive branch, day after day. The following question raised and related to the Codex earth. In fact, on the Conciliation Council today, the distinguished “Block of Lithuania” raised this question and was commissioned by the Supreme Council. The only thing I would like to quote is the Transitional Regulations of the Earth Code, which clearly defines two mandatory reasons for lifting the moratorium. Thus, the legislator foresaw two procrastination conditions. First, January 1. And second, it's possible January 1st only if you adopt two laws. This is the Land Market Act and the Land Cadastre Act. In order to avoid different legal interpretations of this issue, the Supreme Council's apparatus after our Conciliation Council received a mandate, on the one hand, to make proposals from the Supreme Council's apparatus to bring the matter to order, on the other hand, for consideration of the relevant bill, submitted by the Lithuanian Block. Dear National MPs, another report that concerns our work with the press. We did a press point, that is, a job with a press that's very convenient. There is a separate stand, a separate stand for each Ukrainian national MP and a suitable microphone stand. It's done to make it a beautiful picture and the possibility of every national MP, I'm not sure the text will be good, but the picture will be very beautiful. So I'm asking you to make your suggestions, if you need another press point, we'll make another one. What desires we will do. And last but not least, colleagues. There is a request to take a 30 - minute break, which was discussed at the Conciliation Council, in order to finally bring the issue of the Supreme Council committees into line. Something has to be done, Vladimir Mikhailovich? We've made a decision like this, let's take a break if you don't mind, and then we'll vote on article 16 of the Rules of Conduct. So I'm asking the factions to gather on the third floor to finally normalize the personal composition of the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-25-m0.u47	I'm sorry, it's not working out again. So here's the situation, I'd like to inform you. The four factions agreed on a completely personal distribution of the committees. The distribution was agreed by the “Julia Timoshenko Block”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the “Litvina Block”. The faction of the Party of the Regions did not agree. They are asked to meet again on their faction so that they can finally distribute the warehouse by nightfall. There is a responsibility of Mikli Janović Azarov that tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. they will submit a final draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for silence, comrades. In order to in some way stimulate the faction of the Party of the Regions before the final decision was made, we made the following proposal. We expect another agreed decision by the faction of the Party of the Regions. If there is no such decision tomorrow at 10 a.m., the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have a draft Supreme Council ruling signed by four factions. I think it's going to be right. Let them work on it now. They have a large faction of 175 people. I hope that they will complete this process. Second message, colleagues. There's a government meeting tomorrow. That's why the faction leaders and I are more than 11 hours away from meeting with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because it will address an extremely important issue, it is a draft of the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. That's how we meet at 10:00. We hope to obtain a five - faction ruling. We're voting on her briefly. We continue to organize the work of the Supreme Council committees, and faction leaders attend meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers. The next plenary meeting will then be on Thursday. But let's wait for tomorrow to get a coordinated draft of the Supreme Council's ruling. Ladies and gentlemen, at the order of the factions, I hereby announce the adjournment of the evening plenary session by 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you.
