ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. No, you'd better stop. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:00:47]] There are 441 National Deputies card registered in the session room. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Yes, dear colleagues, as we have agreed, I will now ask Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council to inform us of the outcome of the consideration of the matter at the meeting of the committee of profile, how they fulfilled our commission yesterday in connection with the events that are taking place in the Supreme Council, and then we will work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u2	Mr. Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, discussed today at his meeting the commission of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of 21 February to address the national deputies of Ukraine to Kozuba and Chechchev on his own initiative to engage on 21 February this year in the electrical premises of the administrative building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the street of Gruszewski, 5 national deputies of Ukraine, members of the faction of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine” which resulted in a power cut-off for the holding of plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the termination of the electronic system of the “Rada”. The committee considered the noted appeal of the national deputies and made a decision. First. To note that on February 21st of the current year, there was a voluntary engagement by the Ukrainian people's deputies, members of the Fräulein Yulia Timoshenko and “Our Ukraine” powerhouse in the administrative building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the street of Gruszewski, 5, which resulted in the failure of the “Council” electronic system and an obstacle to the decision-making of the Supreme Council of Ukraine through this system. The other one. Condemn the conduct of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine, who have committed acts that do not correspond to the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy in connection with their arbitrary occupation on 21 February of the premises in the administrative building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the street of Grushewski, 5 and the requirements of part one of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the provisions of part two of article 51 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. Recommend the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appeal to the law enforcement authorities to give a legal assessment of the actions of the Ukrainian National Deputies, which took place on 21 February 2007 and are linked to the arbitrary engagement of them in the administrative building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the street of Grushewski, 5. Four. To recommend to the leaders of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Our Ukraine”, to consider at a meeting a faction of the actions of its individual members, which violated the requirements of part one of the eighth article of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, the provisions of part two of article 51 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u3	Yes, thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please give me 10 minutes. Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u4	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Your Honor, you are in favor, in the decision of your profile committee, you use the term that was captured. The Ukrainian national deputies are the masters of this house, the Supreme Council. How can the householders seize their house where they live, work, and so forth, since it is not the people on the street who could take this house? That is, a professional committee should consider these reasons that led the Ukrainian National Deputies to enter the premises of the shield, the shield, and, perhaps, the root cause. That would be, I think, an effective decision by a profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u5	If you have listened carefully to the report, it has been mentioned that there is an eighth Act on the Status of the People's Deputy and the provision of article 51, part two, of the Rules of the Supreme Council, which, if consummated, says that the deputies are not entitled to “interference with the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. It is from these positions that issues have been addressed in the Rules Committee. With regard to the overall consideration of the matter in the Standing Committee, we can consider, within the competence of the Committee, and submit proposals on this matter to the Supreme Council. As for the reasons behind the conflict, we all know them. On Monday, the leader of the faction, Yulia Timoshenko, stated that they would not allow the Supreme Council to work until certain conditions had been met by the faction. On Tuesday, you know, most people tried to do their best to get the Supreme Council to work. But then action was taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u6	Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u7	May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kravchenk?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u8	Mikoli? Cowchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u9	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Please tell the Committee whether there were several other parties to the matter. Well, it's clear that the wrong conduct of the people's deputies and so on has been considered at all, but has the conduct of our security guard been considered? The fact was that by lunchtime, no one had been allowed to close the doors, all the conditions had been created to destroy and the physical people's deputies of Ukraine by extremist elements in the face of the BUIT. Has the question of how the commander relates to this issue been considered?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u10	Yes, the committee was invited to a meeting by the Deputy Chief of Affairs, Mr. Haman Mikola Vasilovich, and the Chief of Administration of the Administrative Houses was invited, as well as an electrician who was in the room at this time. From their words and from the words of the electrician in the room he was like an on-call electrician, plus a security guard. But in the unclear, we couldn't figure out the reason why the room itself was under lock and key. Who opened this room, which included six people's deputies and, in fact, by force threw the electrician out of the room? What's more, he wasn't allowed to make any calls on his cell phone. We are not an investigative body, so we will ask the Supreme Council to take a decision, to involve the relevant law enforcement agencies that can address this issue and to give legal assessment of the actions that have been taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u11	This, colleagues, you remember, you once passed a law on government protection and said you had to. To make it subordinate to the President. Then it'll be okay. I think we'll go back to the subject. And either we're subordinated to the Supreme Council State Security Authority, or we're going to make a decision to set up a special unit to protect the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because it's understandable how it all ends. Please, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u12	Adam Ivanovich, pass the word to Boris Bespalom. Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u13	Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u14	Thank you. Well, I think colleague Kendzer was absolutely right when he said we should look at the root causes. If the President's bill to raise the minimum wage, pension and the same Sivulian project had been considered in time, nothing would have happened. Secondly, I look at this picture that I see in front of me -- the excitement and I remember how the faction that has the honour of being a reporter for nine days kept all the premises, brought strangers here, and so on. I wanted to ask him, did the faction give a legal assessment? Did she give another legal evaluation? When I looked at this, I remembered one cartoon of my childhood, and there was this situation: it was like a cannibal reading a sermon about vegetarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u15	Thank you. If we go into the history of the work of the Supreme Council, we can also remember that there were people who had driven gasoline here to set fire if a solution was not implemented. In this case, the position of the committee is that we must become more civilized, and we must move forward in our parliamentary situation rather than go backwards and not look back. In this regard, we believe that such actions, such actions must be stopped, they must be legally evaluated, and we, as normal parliamentarians, normal people, must agree and find consensus on certain issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u16	Uncle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u17	Please pass the word to Zamkovenko Mikoli Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u18	Mikola Ivanovich Zamkovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u19	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to ask the following question: Would you please tell me whether an assessment was made or whether the committee had considered how one of the representatives of the Luhansk District Council in the summer was able to break into the hall and beat up the members of the State Department? This is one time. And secondly, please tell me, did anyone on the committee clarify the question of who blocked the door now and what material damage in this regard, and what is the decision made by the committee on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u20	We have considered the issues raised by the relevant people's deputies. And what has happened in the history of the Supreme Council is unrealistic to consider, I think, not only to our committee, but in general to the Supreme Council. It'll take too long for us to figure out what our relationship was in the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u21	Please, Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u22	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! I would ask you very much to have a more clear assessment in your document. First, not “occupation”, but “opportunity, illegal grabbing, withdrawal from the “Council” system, opposition to the work of the Ukrainian National Deputies”. We have to give the Attorney General of Ukraine an order to deal with this issue, and I also think about the commander who was walking and smiling. Among other things, I went to him two weeks ago when a couple of non-deputies came into the room, held consultations, got divorced. These were the heads of the district administrations, the Hersonian and the Zaporozhye. There's absolutely no reaction. That is, instead of making order, the commandant is practically doing everything he can to make such disorder and seductive excitement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u23	Thank you for asking. We have considered, from the point of view of which you speak, the provision of legal assessments and appropriate referrals to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but have considered that neither the Committee nor the Supreme Council has the right to take any preliminary action to instruct law enforcement authorities. The law enforcement authorities should conduct an independent investigation and determine whether or not there were offences, rather than what we were supposed to dictate to them. On that basis, a recommendation was adopted to the Supreme Council leadership to request the law enforcement authorities to investigate and assess the actions of the deputies, which led to the fact that the Supreme Council was virtually unable to function properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u24	Alexander Sergiyovich, I have a question. Have you considered at a committee meeting the matter of a decision on the administration of state property transferred by the Supreme Council to the administration of the State Administration?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u25	Yes, we considered this decision and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u26	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat, please. So, dear colleagues, we've heard information from the head of the profile committee. The committee gave its assessment. We will continue to consider how this should be done by those who have to do so. Let's go to question number 3112, Draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the opening of negotiations between Ukraine and the European Union on the conclusion of a new core treaty. The Prokopovich People's Deputy Project and others. Please, Deputy Head of the Committee on European Integration, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! First of all, I'd like to ask you to be abstract from the event that happened, namely, it didn't happen in the morning on the appointment or not to appoint a foreign minister. We are now considering an extremely important question, the question that arises from what is objective reality, the presence of powerful neighbours in our country by the European Union, by Russia. And you all understand very well that the relationship between them should be based, not on any subjective criteria, but on international legal instruments. On March 5, this year, a commission set up by the Ukrainian side will begin negotiations on the establishment of a new strengthened agreement between Ukraine and the EU. And in February 2008, the 10-year period of operation of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the EU is ending, and this year, the "Ukraine-EU" action plan ends. Further relations, contractual and legal, will be determined by this new stronger one, as it is now called a treaty, which envisions a deeper level of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Community, as well as a transformation of the relationship between partnership and cooperation towards political association and economic integration. We know that the President of Ukraine has formed a delegation and approved the general directives, and we know that the EU Council of Ministers has approved the mandate of the European Commission for these negotiations. To be frank, the situation before the start of negotiations is not convenient for our side. The EU Council of Ministers Directive defines things that are not new and do not have any added value in the relationship between the European Union and Ukraine. Moreover, last December there was also a directive by the Euro Commission that found it not very pleasant for Ukraine to have a neighbourhood policy, and, frankly, a policy that envisioned equality between Ukraine and some countries in North Africa, the Middle East, some of our neighbours in Eastern Europe, which was totally out of line with those realities and the progress that our country had made in the form of relations between Ukraine and the EU. Taking into account this situation, also taking into account that there has been both a tragic and a comical situation that no other country has allowed itself. People's deputies, members of the European Integration Committee, came up with an idea supported by Ukrainian diplomats that we, as parliamentarians, should contribute to strengthening the positions of the Ukrainian delegation. There were two proposals, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on the concept of a new core contract or to do so in the form of a statement. We agreed that the first step could be in the form of a statement by the Supreme Council. Such a statement is prepared, agreed upon by the committees, agreed with the Ukrainian diplomats and provides for a number of important positions, in our view. First of all, we would like to remind you of the decision taken by the European Parliament and the resolution of the European Parliament of the past and of the past year, which refers to Ukraine's closer cooperation with the EU and the conclusion of an association agreement and later on Ukraine's future membership in European co-operation. In our statement, we want to highlight and focus on equal cooperation with the European Union, which is mutually beneficial to both sides. We commit ourselves to further adapting Ukraine’s legislation to European legislation and to enhancing parliamentary cooperation. At the same time, we urge the European Union to assume that the future document should take fully into account the progress made in the form of Ukraine-EU relations. In particular, we consider it necessary for Ukrainian parliamentarians to have a consolidated opinion that there should be a EU declaration of openness in the new treaty for Ukraine as well as for any European state. We refer to Article 49 and Article 6 of the EU Treaty. We believe that a new agreement should be made in line with the EU's existing contractual practice for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe – our neighbours, who are already members of the European Community today. We want this treaty to determine the degree of integration of Ukraine. For the treaty to be filled with direct action standards that are clear, clear for both politicians and the population. To determine the exact terms on which the contract is made. The main thing is to ensure, on the basis of a new strengthened treaty, a gradual development of the deepening relationship between Ukraine and the EU until Ukraine's full membership in co-operation. In the medium term, it is due to the growing economic integration of Ukraine into the European markets of goods, services, capital and labour. Under these conditions, a new treaty can become a farsighted document, creating a weighty added value to the regulations that are in force today. And I'm going to remind you that the thesis that sounds, unfortunately, and in the new directives of the European Commission that the European Union only welcomes the desire of Ukraine is not a novelty, it's an old subject, and we've heard such greetings from Brussels for 10 years. We will be able to help the Ukrainian delegation, that is, not only the diplomats, but also the members of the government of Yanukovic, to reach those positive boundaries that must be defended to preserve Ukraine's national interests. I think that in this case Parliament will accept the draft statement and so we will arm our diplomats in the negotiations that will begin on March 5 with a new strong argument. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. Help Europe and Ukraine? Let's help. I am voting on the Order “On the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to open negotiations between Ukraine and the European Union on the conclusion of a new basic treaty”. Registration number 3112. Let's demonstrate support for this statement. Vote. I need 300 votes. [[16:24:51]] For 399 Thank you. It's been decided. The factions. Region Party – 177, Block Timoshenko – 95, “Our Ukraine” 73, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by the Head of the Profit Committee that we today should adopt a 3195 decree, which was considered and previously adopted on Tuesday, on some issues of government property management. Who is responsible for considering this decision today and making a decision, please vote. [[16:25:52]] For 240 Let us consider the questions. As reported by the committee’s chairman, the committee received no comments on this decision, i.e. the proposal to take a decision as a whole on certain matters of public property management referred by the Supreme Council to the Administration of State Administration. Registration number 3195. Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[16:26:31]] For 240 Thank you. Copy that. We are discussing the list of issues not included in the agenda of the day-to-day third session, on which no final decision was taken at the February 8, 2007, plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that when you and I discussed the schedule of meetings, the schedule of meetings for the list of issues that were included for consideration at the third session of the Supreme Council, then we voted with you in favour of the list that did not raise objections and agreed that in the next plenary week, namely, this plenary week that we are currently having, we will return to the questions that have been brought by the committees, whether they have been subject to the legislative initiative, but they have not been supported, either at the committee meeting, or the committees have not been able to support them, or have been observed by the factions. This is the list that is being prepared today, so as we have agreed, as tradition has been, please prepare for the long-term vote, because we will be voting separately on each issue. Turn around. I am voting on who to include in the list of issues for consideration in the third session the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the extension of judicial self-government by electing judges for administrative positions by the courts. Registration number 3048. The committee doesn't recommend it. I'd like to make up my mind. Not supported by the committee. [[16:28:34]] For the five of us. Yes, there is a whole list of Supreme Council regulations, decrees to amend the appendix to the Supreme Council's decision on the list, the number of compositions, and the subject matter of committee knowledge. Now I'm going to read a list of these regulations. The point is, fellow Members of the Committee, that some or other committees or committee members suggest that we review the distribution of committees, what functions they have and what questions they are asked about. I think if we start the revisions, we'll never finish it. So who's in charge of including in the agenda of the day-to-day third session draft regulations by number: 1164, 1164-2, 1164-3, 1164-4, 1164-5, 1164-6, 1164-7, 1164-8, 1164-9, 1164-10, 1164-11 and 2372, and 2432. The committee does not recommend that they be supported. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:29:51]] For-0 That's monolithic! That's monolithic! Thank you. Zero. The factions? Well, look who's holding up. Stay away from the Socialists, one. Draft Decree amending the Rules of the Supreme Council for the Billing of People's Deputies 2529. This is about what he said, not simply paper, but electronics. The committee suggests that it does not support itself in a short way. I'll put it to a vote of 2529. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:30:40]] For-0 Draft Law approving the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2305]] The Constitution says it's not a law, it's just a rule. The committee does not support this. Who's for including him in the agenda of the day session, please identify yourself. [[16:31:11]] For-16 True, colleagues are aspiring “for” and others are asking “for” but for what? Vote for what. Draft Decree on State Property Management, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council. 2469. Project Zjiživnova. We have now accepted, so the committee recommends not to support, not to include in the agenda. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:31:48]] For the four of us. Not supported. Draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on value added tax for the purchase of state-owned cars for disabled persons with proposals from the President. Registration number 0828. But we have settled this issue by law since December 14, 2006. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:32:23]] For 1 Not supported. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on Owners of Vehicles and Other Self-propelled Vehicles and Mechanisms. 2584. On December 6th of last year, we settled it by law. I'd like to make up my mind. 2584. [[16:32:56]] For-0 Not supported. Draft Act amending the Law on Economic Associations of Ukraine on the reduction of the quorum of the holding of re-congregation of the general meetings of the company. 2526. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:33:22]] For 202 We didn't make it? Now. Draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine “On Farming Associations to Reduce the Quadrum of Conducting Again General Meetings of the Economic Society. This is my colleague Matvienkov's 2526 project. Who's in charge of voting? [[16:33:59]] For 239. We're back. Who's in favour of including this issue in the agenda number 2526, please vote. [[16:34:22]] For 244 Copy that. It's on the order of the day. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity (for the organization of gambling) (2243). I'd like to make a statement. [[16:34:56]] For-0 Not supported. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on heat supply. Project Bitchkova, 3013. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:35:22]] For-30 Not supported. A draft of the Ukrainian Meat and Meat Act with proposals from the President. [[0835]] It is regulated by the law of December 5, 2006. I'd like to make a statement. 0835. [[16:35:50]] For-7. But they're already regulated by law, so that we can settle this issue by law, so that we don't hang this re-law, we're his. I see. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, 2711. Bondik's project, but he's, you know, already our colleague, sorry. Please identify yourself, 2711. [[16:36:36]] For 1 The prince must have supported it. Draft Act amending Ukraine's Land Code to sell land. This is 2856-1. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee does not support this. [[16:37:05]] For-0 Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act, Hashuk Project, 2359. [[on the improvement of certain provisions]] The committee does not support this. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:37:32]] For 1 Not supported. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television, Radio and Television. [[on powers in the field of the use of languages in the information activities of television broadcasters]] Koleschenka Project, 2514. Please vote. [[16:38:07]] For 234 A decision is made, and it is included in the order of the day. Draft Act amending the Law on Television, Radio Television and Ukraine. [[about the use of languages in the information activities of television organizations]] Also. 2515, Koleschenka Project. Please vote. [[16:38:45.]] For 232 Copy that. A draft decree on a moratorium on the exclusion of public and municipal printed media, premises, and property, and the change of their executives. National MP Kurpil's project, 256. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:39:18]] For the four of us. Not supported. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law “On the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities in Ukraine through Media”. [[about the language of information dissemination]] Project of colleague Kolesnicka, registration number 2685. Please vote. [[16:39:51]] For 235 Copy that. Draft Act on the granting of official status in the Russian language in Ukraine The mosquito project. Registration number 1120. Please vote. [[16:40:21]] For 231 It's on. Draft Law on Regional Languages and Minority Languages Koleschenka Project, 2346. Please vote. [[16:40:44]] For 238. It's on. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian RSR Act on languages of the Ukrainian RSR. [[on the language of the judiciary]] Project of colleague Kolesnicke, 2383. Please vote. [[16:41:11]] For 235 It's on. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography, on Distribution and Demonstration of Films. Project colleague Kolesnichenko. 2684. Please vote. [[16:41:40]] For 242 Roger that. Draft law, basic to the Ukrainian Language Act. The Volga and Kirilenka Viacheslav project 2634, 2634-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:42:10]] For 227 It's on. Draft Act amending the Law on State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities on the appointment of State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities. People's deputy Volinz's project. The committee doesn't recommend it. 2573. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:42:52]] For-34 Not supported. Now chapter: Bills that have not been identified in the agenda of the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council Committee. We'll be clear. Draft Decree on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on Approval of Passport and Certificate of Birth. The Gryzak Project. 3033. Please vote. Vote. [[16:43:40]] For 240 Supported. Ukraine Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 0844. It's with the President's proposals. Please vote. Vote. [[16:44:16]] For 221 Dear colleagues. The Ukrainian Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, with proposals from the President. 0844. We need support, we need to consider the President's proposal. Please vote. [[16:44:49]] For 302 Thank you. Copy that. Draft Decree amending Article 98 of the Supreme Council Rules on the Expertise of Bills. Project number 2880. Author of Kiselov. The committee wasn't defined. Please vote. [[16:45:22]] For 243 Supported. Draft Decree amending the Rules of the Supreme Council for the Finalization and Signature of Laws. The Bespalogo project. 3040, please identify yourself. [[16:45:51]] For-86 Not supported. A draft regulation on the implementation of a single system of monitoring, production, supply, transport, consumption and payment for fuel-energy resources, housing and utility services. Project Alexeieva, registration number 1055. Please vote. Vote. [[16:46:25]] For-40 Not supported. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs, re-reading, Bokoko project, registration number 1310. [[on documents submitted for registration]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:46:59]] For 240 Supported. Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Rail Transport of Ukraine. [[concerning the clarification of certain terms and the approval of tariffs for transport]] Project of the People's Deputy Kravchenka, 1072. Please vote. Vote. [[16:47:33]] For 239. Supported. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Education. [[on the indexation of tuition fees]] Bespalogo project, 2859. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:47:58]] For-79 Not supported. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on budgetary financing of public education institutions. Project Bitchkova, 3014. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:48:24]] For-43 Not supported. Draft Act amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the creation of self-accounting units. Project Tarasa Chernobyl. Registration number 3024, please vote. [[16:48:54]] For 225 Who's in charge of coming back? Vote. Vote. [[16:49:16]] For 241 We're back. Who's to be included in the agenda of the day session please vote 3024. Vote. [[16:49:35]] For 244 Copy that. And chapter three of the bill, which is not supported by individual MPs. Draft Decision on the elimination of symbols and names in Ukraine of the former Soviet Union. Project Lukyanka. 2332. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:50:09]] For-81 Not supported. Draft Act amending the Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine on the Periods of Degree. Project Mikoli Onichuka. Registration number 1251. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:50:38]] For-103 Not supported. Draft Act on the introduction into the Criminal Code of Ukraine of responsibility for public guarantee of the existence of a famine of 1932-33 years as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. Kendzore project, registration number 2816. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:51:16]] For 116 Not supported. Draft Act on the National Guard of Ukraine. The Mountain Project. Registration number 2484. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:51:44]] For-100 A draft decree marking the century from the birth of Roman Suhevich. Registration number 3078. Project Kirilenka. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:52:13]] For the 120th. Not accepted. The draft Act on the recognition by veterans of movement, resistance, members of the organization of Ukrainian Nationalists of the UN and soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army of UPA and the status of participants in hostilities. The school project. 2487. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:52:46]] For 114 And the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on the lifting of restrictions on the recognition of UPA soldiers by participants in hostilities and the recognition of invalidity]] Boris Bezpalogo project. 2860. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:53:20]] For the 120th. So, dear colleagues, we went through a list of issues that were not included in the agenda of the day-to-day third session on which no final decision was taken in the plenary session when we approved the order of the day-to-day third session. We've identified ourselves with part of it. Dear colleagues! There's a proposal-calling of deputies, and I'll remind you that before the break, we didn't have one vote to make a decision on the committee. Who's to go back to voting on the draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of violations of Ukraine's laws and the beatings of people in Kharkiv? Project number 3156. Please vote. [[16:54:20]] For 207 Show by factions: Region Party - 0, Block Tymoshenko - 105, Our Ukraine - 72, Socialists - 28, Communists - 0, non-fractional - 2. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[16:55:22]] For 206 Come on, I'd like to talk to you, consult with the factions, consult with the factions. No, no. Lila, I did everything I could. Let's make this happen, let's consult at the Conciliation Council on Monday, March 12, we'll talk about it, and maybe we'll make a decision, I won't rule it out, and let's not cheat on it altogether. We go to the chapter to make decisions on the issues under discussion. Yesterday we were unable to vote with you, so it was decided that we would vote when possible. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Landscapes of the Black Sea to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea from Pollution. Registration No. 0052. Please vote. [[16:56:46]] For 314 Thank you. Protocol ratified. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Economic, Industrial and Technological Cooperation. Registration No. 0056, we discussed it yesterday. Please vote. [[16:57:18]] For 345. Thank you. Copy that. The draft Law on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of water and water supplies held in municipal property. Registration No. 2750. [[16:57:47]] For 271 Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law on the Specialities of Transfer to the Concession of Heat Equipment in Municipal Property Registration No. 2751. [[16:58:16]] For 281 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration No. 2508, first reading. [[on irrigated land]] [[16:58:44]] For 229 Adopted in the first reading. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, Registration No. 2539. [[on the improvement of Ukrainian legislation on family violence]] Let's support it. Vote. Project Katerini Levchenko. [[16:59:14]] For 363 Adopted in the first reading. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services on the Simplification of Provision and Payment of Communications Services, Registration No. 2575, Taras Project. Please vote. [[16:59:51]] For 104 Who's in favour of sending the draft to the author for further processing, please vote. [[17:00:12]] For-76 Even less. It's coming off. Draft Law amending the laws of Ukraine on Electricity and Alternative Sources of Energy, registration number 1223. [[on the establishment of special tariffs on electricity and heat - "green" tariffs]] [[17:00:51]] For 263 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State architectural control and promotion of investment in construction, registration number 2451. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:01:22]] For 292 Adopted in First Reading It's a billing order at the state level of the 200th anniversary of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 2724. Please vote. Anyone who wants to rest in Crimea, we vote. We'll see who's going where. [[17:01:58]] For 270. I'll take that as a base. I don't think there'll be any additions? I'm voting on the adoption of the state-level decree on the 200th anniversary, 2774 as a whole. 2774. Vote. [[17:02:33]] For 314 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on organs and services for minors and special institutions for minors, adopted on 7 February 2007. Our colleague Tomenko, our colleague Tomenko asks us to adopt the law then, but certain technical ones, as it were, have been inconsistent, have spoken to us in the Legal Office to make everything flawless, I ask to vote. Vote. [[17:03:29]] For 378 Thank you. And since we're doing so well, let's support the inclusion in the agenda of the 120th anniversary resolution of the famous statesman, the leader of the guerrilla union, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union of Kovpak Sidor Artemovich. For 20 years he served as Deputy Head of the Presidency of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[17:04:07]] For 296 Thank you. It's on. Can we support the verdict? I am voting for the decree to mark the 120th anniversary of the birth of a well-known statesman, commander of the celebrated partisan union, twice Hero of the Soviet Union of Kovpak Sidor Artemovich. [[Registration number 3184]] Some of you still eat apples from apples planted near the Supreme Council until today. Please be supportive. [[17:04:49]] For 298 Copy that. The factions. Region Party - 184, Block Timoshenko -54, Our Ukraine - 3, Socialists - 30, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 6. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to second reading. The draft Law on Recognition is being considered as having become invalid, some legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 0905]] First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Eugene Korniychuk Please leave at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, the Committee of Legal Policy for the Implementation of the Order of the Supreme Council of 17.02 2004 reviewed the bill and revised the second reading of amendments to the recognition of certain Ukrainian legislative acts, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 25.05. 2006. We created a working group, along with the Ministry of Justice, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and we thoroughly worked on the bill. I want to point out that out of 55 lines, 51 were accepted. These are mainly related to amendments to the Laws on Economic Societies, on Privatisation of State Property, on Rent of State and Municipal Property, and so on. Taking into account this problem of work and the results achieved, the Committee on Legal Policy at its next meeting on 20 December 2006 reviewed it and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law, registration number 0905 to be adopted on second reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u30	Thank you, Eugene Volodymyrovich. I realized that all the adjustments were taken into account. Right, Eugene Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u31	Except for four.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u32	Except for four. Who among his colleagues insists on his amendment? None. Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole of a law on recognition such that some Ukrainian legislative acts have become invalid in connection with the adoption of the civil code of Ukraine, registration number 0905. Please vote. [[17:07:34]] For 279 Copy that. A draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences is under consideration, registration number 2419. [[on responsibility for violating Ukrainian legislation on the insurance fund for documentation]] [[second reading]] Oliynik Svetoslav, head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement, reports the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! On 28 November 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Legislation on the Ukrainian Documentation Fund. The subject of the legislative initiative under the bill is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The aim of this bill is to remove gaps in the current legislation and improve the management relationship system related to the application of the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund. Article 28 of the Act lays down principles of legal responsibility for violating the requirements of the law, but so far there is no rule that establishes responsibility in the Administrative Code. In preparing for the second reading, this bill took into account all the comments made by both the author of the legislative initiative and the expert, scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council. All the amendments that have come, including the committee's opinion, are to support this bill in second reading and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u34	Thank you, Sveslav Vasilovich. Thus, honourable colleagues, all the amendments included, no one insists on voting on any amendment. Is there no other way? Okay. Thank you. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Violations of Legislation on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund. Registration number 2419. Please vote. Vote. [[17:09:59]] For 257 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending Ukraine’s Civil Code on Shareholder Society Management is under consideration. Registration number 2182. Tarasov Vladimir Volodymyrovic, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u35	Respectable national MPs, that is, regarding the bill. Several suggestions were made, few of them. They're all accounted for, except for one. This is a proposal number six of Cosemic’s national deputy, and it is rejected. Rejected because the proposal was accepted by the previous MP, Landik and Deputy Korniychuk. Well, make up your mind, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u36	Please don't insist on any of the authors? He insists. I don't know. I don't know. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u37	The honourable report, in the conclusions of the Scientific and Expert Department, states that the first amendment of Korniyczuk contradicts the existing Act on Economic Societies, is meant to exclude members of the Supervisory Board from the exclusive competence of the general assembly to elect and recall members of the Supervisory Board only to leave. I ask that this amendment, first, be voted on, because it is an exclusive mandate in accordance with the Law on Economic Societies. If we accept it, we're going to have different laws to treat it differently. And we'll be in court all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u38	The committee looked carefully at these questions. But we came to the conclusion that it was counted. Let him decide the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u39	I understand, Alexander Mikolayovich, that you are in favour of confirming this amendment by voting. The first amendment is taken into account by the committee, but colleague Bondar insists that we confirm it by the decision of the session. I'm putting to the vote amendment number one of Korniychuk's colleagues. Please vote. The committee supports. [[17:13:17]] For 234 Confirmed. What other suggestions are there? You don't? Then I put in general with the amendments that we voted for the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code for the Management of Shareholders. Registration number 2182. Please vote. [[17:13:53]] For 239. You see, when we vote, it gets lighter. We need to vote more often. To 239. The law is passed. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine for the purpose of ensuring that civil matters are dealt with in a cassational manner. Registration number 2294. Justice Committee member Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u40	Fiesenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, on January 11, 2007, was considered, adopted in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commentation on Civil Matters. For your consideration, a comparative table is presented to the draft Law, which shows the proposed proposals and amendments, and the final draft of the bill. All proposed amendments, in fact, are accepted. We've discussed this bill in the committee, we've come to the conclusion that it should be accepted in the second reading, and on the whole, on the basis of this: firstly, the situation in the Supreme Court of Ukraine shows that we are grossly violating citizens' rights to judicial protection. No one will come to us to discuss these matters, either from Europe or from Asia. The Supreme Court itself is unable to consider such a number of cases and should therefore adopt the bill. And secondly, the Supreme Court of Ukraine is the highest judicial authority of the state, and it must, first of all, direct judicial practice in our country so that the rule of law is not luganian and not Lviv, but the only one in all of Ukraine. The Supreme Court of Ukraine, in its decrees of plenary, should constantly explain to judges how the Law should be applied. How can he do this, as he has 50,000 cases behind him? This project is supported by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading and in general. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill and to adopt it in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u41	Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, it's all taken into account. I'll remind you that this is a bill "with a long beard", we've tried to solve it in the past. And I would like to ask him very much to be supported by the head of the Supreme Council, our colleague Onopenko, to uphold this law. I am betting on a vote on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Sudokustide of Ukraine, 2294. [[on the provision of a civil case for the treatment of civil cases]] Please vote. [[17:16:40]] For 352 Thank you. The law is passed. Yes, the draft Law on the State Register of Voters, registration number 0910, is being considered. [[second reading]] Report by Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. Out of place, turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the State Register of Voters. This is a law long awaited by our society. He was accepted in the first reading as early as 2004. During this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u43	Yuri Bogdanovich, I'm sorry. Your Honor, let's hear it. This is really a very interesting law that we have a long-term struggle with you, the State Register of Voters. I understand you don't want to work with that kind of lighting. Ah, ah, ah. But let's work. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u44	Thank you very much. So he was accepted in the first reading in April 2004. During this time, a great deal of experience has been gained since then, and the main reason for the primary filling of the register database has been through the formation of general electoral lists during the 2006 elections. A special working group was involved in the development of the project on the committee, which included members of the committee. In addition to me, Natalia Bogesheva and Stepan Zapuk, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Jean Usenko-Chorne, representatives of the CTC Secretariat, the Cabinet of Ministers Secretariat, law-election experts and computer technologies. Specially to coordinate activities with the author's team of the draft law "On Demographic Registry" as agreed with Vasil Tsushko, Irina Kristopa entered the working group. The working group took into account many useful suggestions that came to the committee, including the national deputies of the Ukraine of Olena Lukas, Catherine Samuelk, Boris Bespalog, who were all in one way or another included in the preparation of the second reading. The process was carried out in close cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. Basic project positions. It is proposed to create a database that includes the personal data of all voters in Ukraine, a hardware base, a computer system, and appropriate software that includes the necessary security and security tools. The amount of information about the electorate shall be minimally necessary for its identification and for the appropriate place of voting. The use of information is intended only for election purposes, and it is important to emphasize that a database of the future of the only register of natural persons is formed. And the compatibility of the voter register with the register of natural persons is foreseen as a requirement of this register. The register authorities are located in the center and in places. Worked out issues of the relationship between voters, citizens of Ukraine, and the authorities of the register. By the way, this was the most useful point made by the Ukrainian national deputies. The rights of the electorate, as well as the responsibilities of the registrar’s organs, are provided for, in particular, information about the person, as provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. The mechanism provides for mechanisms to support the validity of the register information by periodically updating and clarifying the information. The initial filling and initial details of personal data are separately regulated. A number of laws of Ukraine have been proposed to deal with these changes. A step - by - step application of this law is foreseen. The positions needed to carry out the preparatory work should take effect after the law has been promulgated. And the main positions that apply to activities since October 1, 2007. All the proposals that have been made are taken into account, if not entirely, and the committee requests that the bill be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u45	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Dear colleagues! The one who sees and wants his offer taken into account. Is there a note? Can we vote? Okay, thanks. I'm voting on the adoption of the law on the national voter register, registration number 0901. Please vote. [[17:21:29]] For 331 Dear colleagues! Thank you very much. We have done a very, very big job. Thank you also to those who worked on the committee and the rapporteurs and those who worked outside the constituency, the Central Electoral Commission, the experts, we'll expect him to help us organize the next parliamentary and presidential elections. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the payment of added-value taxes for the purchase of light-duty cars]] Registration number 2011. Reported by the committee, the deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Sergey Terjohin. There's no Teryohin? Who from the committee can report? Then let me take on this mission. Amendment number two, Vasadez, is it not necessary? Third count. Third Kowzel, rejected, doesn't he insist? Wasadze I can't see the same. Terhochina took his own corrections into account, or more specifically, the committee. Declined 11 – Kowsel. Don't insist. So the rest is counted, counted. In fact, Kowsel. 16, 17. The rest are accounted for. No one insists on their amendments? Vasade and Kowzel. No, it's not. Then I put, honourable colleagues to the vote, the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the payment of added-value taxes in the purchase of light cars. Registration number 2011. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:23:51]] For-35 The law is not supported, out of the question. There's something we need to agree on, so I'm asking you to vote on the transfer of the matter. Draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Registration number 1190. Please vote on the transfer. Vote. The request of the Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers should be aligned with the new Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. [[17:24:28]] For 213 Not accepted. The factions. Region Party – 157, Block Timoshenko – 6, “Our Ukraine” – 0, socialists. Dear colleagues, once again, the situation is explained by the fact that the State Property Fund has addressed us and the Cabinet of Ministers, that since this law was prepared a little earlier than the Act on the Cabinet of Ministers entered into force. In order for there to be agreement between them, they ask that the committee further develop it to take account of the requirements of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? I'll give you my word. Vote. [[17:25:23]] For 236 We're back. 236. Alexander Bondar's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I did not understand the committee's consideration of this law, and almost all the amendments taken into account by the Cabinet of Ministers came to nothing after the adoption of the Cabinet Act. On what grounds do we now carry? The committee's decision is that it's done. What do we bear if there were opportunities for Kabina to make all the remarks in the second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u47	Alexander Mikolaiovich! I support you, but there is the will of the Supreme Council, as it will decide. Who is responsible for transferring the review of the Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Registration number 1190. Please vote. [[17:26:28]] For 237 A decision has been made. The Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Development of Small Hydropower in Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 1222. Bronnnikov Vladimir Costinovich the head of the subcommittee. Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Security, please, Vladimir Kostinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! I'll let myself remember what this law is about. We recently passed the Green Tariff Act with you in this room, first reading. The Small Powers Act is also part of the Energy Conservation Act. But it allows us to account for, besides our rudders, the river from the disease, what was to regenerate the little energy that was and to give energy to our energy system. The law is separate only because the cost of restoring small hydropower is much lower. That is why it is separate from the green tariff. We are grateful to all the deputies who have actively participated in the finalization of this law. There were 17 proposals, all taken into account either in this law or in the Green Tariff Act, which we have just voted with you. The TEC Committee, after finalizing the law, notes with appreciation the merit of both the members of the Committee and, in particular, the Deputy Kravtsov, who has allowed the law to be further elaborated before the state in which it now exists. Therefore, we ask you to support this law in second reading and in general to do good for our nature, for small hydropower to involve it in the energy security of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Konstantinovich. Yes, please, who insists on repairs? Matthews doesn't insist, you don't take your amendment into account. No, it doesn't. Who else? He has no hands and no voices, for if I can't see his hand, give a sign with your voice. Then I am voting on the adoption of the Law as a whole as a law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the development of small hydropower in Ukraine. [[Registration No. 1222]] [[17:29:09]] For 241 The Law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have a little bit of time, I'd like to ask you and I to consider the draft decrees for the selection of non-recurrent elections, because it's clear that there's a time. So please, Natalia Vladislavna Bogasheva. Is Tikhov coming? Please, Tikhov to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u50	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Regional Policy of Local Self - Government, discussed at its meeting the appointment of four village heads and two village heads. The above question was raised in connection with the early termination of these village and village heads: five at their own request, two at retirement, three at health, one at death. The relevant local councils have submitted a letter of appeal and all necessary documents to Parliament. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine, “On the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban, out of turn, the elections of the village and rural heads shall be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. The committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that appropriate village and rural heads be appointed on Sunday, May 6, 2007, by adopting the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration numbers 3220, 3220-5. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u51	Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put a verdict to the vote and ask for your support. Order No. 3220 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Broad-Balkian Rural Head. [[Hersonskin]] Please vote. May 6th election. [[17:31:36]] For 285 Copy that. Order 3220-1 on the appointment of the extraordinary election of the village head of Chernobyl. [[Ivano-Frankishka]] Please vote. [[17:32:04]] For 295 3220-2. Semeikin's village head. [[Lugansk]] Please vote. [[17:32:27]] For 306 Copy that. 3220-3. The village head of the Commission. [[Baby]] Please vote. [[17:32:50]] For-300 Copy that. 3220-4 Zidekovsky’s head, Harkushtina Please vote. [[17:33:14]] For 294 Copy that. 3220-5. The village head of the border. [[Dniproperty]] Please vote. [[17:33:36]] For 291 Thank you. Copy that. Questions considered. Let's move on to a re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Ukrainian law on the moratorium on the alienation of property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, with the President's proposals, 2257. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine passed 12 January, which is now under review, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. By this law, I'm sorry. The President of Ukraine supports the need for a legislative settlement of the property rights of the state-owned social organizations of the former Soviet Union, including property owned by the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine. However, according to the President of Ukraine, the imposition of a moratorium on an undetermined term would not contribute to the resolution of the issue. The President believes that the establishment of a moratorium on the alienation of property held by the Federation by 1 January 2008 is sufficient time for a legislative solution to the issue for which a moratorium is envisaged. Thus, the President makes a specific proposal to take this position into account. In addition, there is another amendment by the President of Ukraine concerning the state-wide social organizations of the former Soviet Union and the property of which is located in Ukraine. The President of Ukraine suggests that the verification of this property should start in 1994 instead of 2000, as defined by law. As far as I know, the National People's Committee has taken into account the President's proposals. Therefore, a request to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u53	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Checheva Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u54	Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. I won't be much longer than your time. In fact, the committee considered two proposals by the President. They're right, they make the law even more effective. We propose that the committee invite the Supreme Council to take into account the President's two proposals, to send this bill to be signed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u55	Thank you. So, honourable colleagues, the profile committee is proposing to support the President's proposals. That is why I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Moratorium for the alienation of property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine. Registration number 2257. Taking into account the President's suggestions. Please vote. [[17:37:11]] For 337 Thank you. Copy that. Ukraine Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Bank of Ukraine Act with Presidential Proposals. [[Registration number 1039]] Please, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Get ready, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u56	Adam Ivanovich, they tell me to turn on the light, but I have no control over it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u57	And I'm going to BUT, turn on the light of a warrior of light. Please. Help me light up Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u58	Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you that these are repeated proposals by the President of Ukraine that are being sent to the Supreme Council in the veto order. The Law was adopted in a new edition on December 21. One, it still cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. The law provides for an expansion of the list of grounds for the termination of the powers of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, and one of these reasons is the proposal to identify the absence of a member of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine without valid reasons for the 10th meeting of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine. But such a change cannot be supported by the President of Ukraine, since under article 11 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Council of the National Bank meets not less than once a quarter. Thus, the proposed innovation would not allow the Council member to cease to be authorized if he did not participate in its meetings for almost 2.5 years. Taking this into account, the President of Ukraine proposes that the word “ten” should be changed to “three”. The second sentence of the President of Ukraine refers to the powers of the Council. In his view, how they are enshrined in the law that came to be signed is not in line with the status of the National Bank of Ukraine, the task, the creation and definition of powers. Thus, the President of Ukraine proposes that article 20 be presented in a different edition. The President's third proposal relates to the following. With a view to strengthening the independence of the National Bank Board as the governing body of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is responsible, inter alia, for the development of the basic principles of monetary policy of the State, this is in accordance with the basic law the basic function of the Council, the President considers it appropriate to complete the list of requirements that apply to persons who may be members of the National Bank Board. [[I'd actually like to make this a separate focus.]] In particular, the impossibility of taking such a position as a member of the Nitzbank Council for the availability of a representative mandate. The right proposal is specifically formulated by the President of Ukraine. The following proposal refers to the reasons for the dismissal of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. And this is particularly a requirement for the President. For the purpose of avoiding duplication in the performance of the said provision, it is proposed in paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section 2 of the first law, which deals with the words “or the removal of prohibited activity in accordance with article 65 of this law”, to replace the words “or the violation of the requirements of article 65 of this law”. It was also, by the way, an honourable national MP, a specific proposal, if I'm not mistaken, of a scientific and expert administration with regard to this law, but it wasn't taken into account, unfortunately, by a professional committee. In view of the above, it is suggested that this law be approved in a new edition, taking into account the President’s proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u59	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat. Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the Honourable Head! The committee at its meeting considered the President's proposals for a draft Law amending the National Bank Act and the comparative table that you have given you suggests that the President's first amendment, where the President proposes to restrict the qualification criteria for a member of the National Bank Board, should not have a representative mandate, the committee proposes that the amendment should be rejected from the following ground. First of all, the justification. That national MPs have no opportunity, they have no right under the law to take office in institutions that are intended to receive profits. The argument that there is an income and expenditure in the national bank that is constantly earned, which is listed in the State Budget, is a position that is not based on actual legislation, since the National Bank Act makes it clear that the National Bank is not intended to receive income, and therefore the Supreme Council will be able to determine for itself the composition of representation on the National Bank's Board, since this position is fixed by the higher legislative body of Ukraine in the Constitution. So the committee -- in this case, I'm reporting the position of the committee -- is proposing that the first amendment of the President be rejected. The second, third, fourth amendments of the President, the Committee believes that the President has made an absolute point of reference to the text of the bill adopted, and part of it clearly defines the number of meetings which have been missed without any reasonable reason, which, without any reasonable reason, has the opportunity to release a member of the Board of National Bank because, indeed, the Board members have to work with the Board of the National Bank. And unfortunately, we do have examples of their unconscionable attitude toward their responsibilities. The committee decided to support the President's third proposal for regulation of article 18 and article 65, paragraph 2. We think that's the right editorial detail. And the fourth amendment, when it defines the composition of the deputies and the first deputy of the National Bank, is considered by the Committee to support the President's editorial work, as this is a clearer clarification. Thus, the committee proposes a single amendment to reject, three amendments to support, to vote on this law, which is extremely important because the part where the President does not veto is regulated by the extremely important powers and functions of the National Bank that stabilize the functioning of the financial system of the State. And so send this bill to the President for signature as proposed by the committee. Thank you for your attention. And I suggest we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u61	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Arjevitina one minute, microphone out of place. Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u62	Thank you. Arjewitin, "Our Ukraine." I would like to say that things are not as simple as they were reported. I have a conclusion from the General Legal Office that, if the President's proposal is not taken into account, it would be necessary, in the opinion of the Committee, to consider the President's remarks under paragraph 2 of Subparagraph 1, paragraph 3, of the First Law. Otherwise, the President of Ukraine has the right to re-apply the veto to this law. I would like to say that "Our Ukraine" is now joining European standards as well as principles. And I'd like to ask you a question: did anyone make a ratio of this article to a different group of European directives, to central banks and financial institutions, to corporate governance requirements, to state institutions, and so on? That's why I'm asking you to vote in favour of the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u63	Thank you. We're going to do that, Your Honor, the committee has informed you that out of four proposals, three are supported, one is rejected. That is why I will put it in line with the President's proposal, which is not supported. Who's for supporting the first proposal, the President's first proposal, please make a determination. [[17:47:07]] For-86 Not supported. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Registration number 1039. Please vote. [[17:47:58]] For 257 So, dear colleagues, we didn't make a decision, because if we had taken more than 300, it would have been considered a veto. Since we didn't take all the President's proposals into account, we have another proposal: to send a bill for the committee to work on. Please vote to send a committee to work on this. [[17:48:47]] For 265 Thank you. Decision taken. We're going to work on it. A draft Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 0808, is under consideration. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric reports. Get ready for Zalocksky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I hope that we will work just as we have worked with the President's proposals so far, because the next law, honourable national MPs, applies exactly to the constitutional rights and freedoms of our citizens. The law, which has just been signed by the President of Ukraine for the same reasons, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention exactly to the position contained in article 32 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, which states that no one can intervene in his personal family life except in the cases provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Period. It is not possible to collect, store, use and disseminate confidential information about a person without his consent, except in cases defined by law and only in the interests of national security, economic well - being, and human rights. To protect the right to privacy, two European Council Conventions, two European Councils, which have also become valid for Ukraine, become mandatory. According to article 9 of this Law, these standards, which I have just listed, are more faithfully stated that the use of personal data for the mass transmission of messages for information propaganda or advertising purposes can be carried out without the consent of the subject’s personal data. And articles 15 and 17 of the law that came upon the signature set out the conditions under which access to personal data was not granted. In doing so, the lack of consent of the personal data subject to access to his personal data is no reason to deny access to them. Article 28 of the law on signature states that a violation of personal data law entails a legal responsibility. However, the law itself, which is to be a basic legislative instrument for regulating relations in this area, does not address the issue of responsibility for appropriate violations. The absence of such provisions does not meet the requirements of Article 24 of the EU Directive, as well as Article 10 of the Council of Europe Convention, which I have mentioned earlier. In addition, a failure to define the legal basis and order of access to personal data may result in the use or dissemination of confidential information concerning the subject of personal data and thus in violation of his constitutional rights and freedoms. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u65	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Science and Education Committee Zaboloticky Vitaly Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I've narrowed it down enough to express the committee's opinion on this bill. Again, Ukraine has been delaying for more than 25 years with the adoption of some basic law that would order, would have failed to deal with the protection of personal, non-proper human rights with regard to information about this person. The point is that the remarks Mr. Roman made in this case are completely inappropriate, because the absence of such a law allows for interference every day, at all times in the personal, private rights of a citizen, and the proposed law violates these relations, sets certain limits to this intervention and makes quite a requirement for the employer, to the owner of personal data, to the one who concentrates them and manages them. This creates conditions to control this data, to set certain limits on the use of this data, and to create a legal format to protect a person in cases where he cannot provide information about himself. In particular, when a person takes up a job, the law offers a fairly clear definition of the limits that an employer cannot violate, requiring certain data from that person. No information may be required above this. Secondly, I would like to say that it is not only that Ukrainian legislation should compensate for what is being done, but that it is a humanitarian aspect, that the rights of hundreds of thousands, millions of our citizens, both in Ukraine and abroad, are being violated in this respect because of the absence of such a basic law. In Europe, I repeat, back in the early 1980s, appropriate legislation had already been created. After that, I hope that we will adopt this law, that it will bring our labour legislation, our education legislation, the relevant laws on political advertising, and so forth. So the final conclusion and the committee's proposal, to overcome the President's veto and secondly put on the adoption of the law as a whole. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is how we vote. The first is the President's proposal to reject the Personal Data Protection Act. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:55:34]] For-43 Not supported. Proposal for a committee to overcome the veto. Please vote. [[17:55:58]] For 202 Not supported. Proposal for a committee to refer the law to work. Please vote. Vote. You'll do it. [[17:56:20]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there are numerous proposals to continue the meetings for two hours. Let's do it this way. Let's think about one more question, we have a re-examination of the President's proposals 0945-1, and we'll finish that. Please, Polachenko Volodymyr Avrumovich. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[completed]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u68	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, December 12, 318 deputies, have already voted on this Law and was a single amendment of the President, mainly supporting this Law. The amendment was to ensure that participation in the land process and in the construction work did not need to provide guidance on the construction of similar objects. The committee considered this and accepted it, and this amendment we accepted all the other comments were accepted. We voted in favour of the law, which we are grateful for. During this time, almost no elites appeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m1.u69	Yes, dear colleagues, the law has been worked out. The law has been completed. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas with Presidential Proposals. Registration number 0945-1. It is proposed to be accepted with the President's proposals in mind. Vote. [[17:58:39]] For 348 Copy that, even with the veto. That is, the President is obliged to sign the law. Dear colleagues, at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. We have a very interesting day tomorrow. You and I have decided that tomorrow we will listen to the information of the Minister of Internal Affairs, that tomorrow we will listen to the information of the Chief of the Supreme Court, he will address us with such an offer, inform us of the situation in this matter, and a number of other questions. Good luck. See you tomorrow.
