ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs, guests invited by the Supreme Council, our “top chamber” is meant by media representatives! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:12:17]] There are 362 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. I apologize for the delay, but you realize that we have nothing to work with so far because we need to reconcile the bills and all five faction leaders. So right now, I'm asking you to sign up the national deputies for announcements, statements, messages. Please log in. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleagues, Oxana Volodymyrical Bilozer, to her very big day today, Scoobashevski Stanislav Valeriyovich and Schustik Olen Yuriyevna with birthdays. Please pass Popescu to Chechtove and Chechtove Popescu. Change places. Please. Baranowski to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u2	Statement of the MP factions of the Party of the Regions. Honorable national MPs, distinguished voters, have been in the process of negotiating the parliamentary elections in turn for a long time. It was a work process in which the sides finally compromised. It would seem that the country must take a breath with relief that the political crisis has ended in a civilized, compromising way. The party of the regions on the first hand proved to be a strong and responsible political force that, as the nucleus of the parliamentary coalition and having the majority in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was able to hear the opposition and respond to its demands. For our opponents who have not yet understood what is going on, let us explain: our position is a position strong and confident in the political party's own power. The joint statement by the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proves once and for all that public men are able to negotiate with a view to preserving the unity of the country and ensuring the realization of its national interests on the basis of dialogue and based solely on the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The signed joint statement will allow politicians to return to the legal field and allow the country to enter the projected projected civilizational trend. Yesterday, Parliament took the first important step towards implementing agreements on the exit from the political crisis: the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council was confirmed by the most important socio-economic bills, including the adoption of amendments to the 2007 State Budget, which raise wages for workers in cultural, educational and health institutions; and the results of the vote on laws adopted by the Supreme Council since 2 April 2007 have been amended by the Central Election Commission Act. The higher legislature worked in harmony with the understanding of the situation and made a productive decision on all the issues put into the agenda. Obviously, this development is not everyone’s. Political forces, which have become accustomed to assert themselves in a violent political struggle and political war, continue to follow destructive schemes. Today, concerns are raised by statements from individual politicians from the presidential environment and by the repeated assumptions of opposition leaders that go beyond the framework of the agreements made, returning to the relationship between politicians the spirit of ultimatum, dirty gossip, and innuendo. The faction of a party of regions declares its unwavering compliance with the agreements made at a higher political level, by its actions and by its vote shows full compliance with the terms of the joint statement. We expect similar behavior from our political opponents. The same political forces that are not used to working in dialogue and design are reminded of the effort to strengthen the common statement of the three leaders of the country with their own self-active ultimatums doomed to historical oblivion. There's a clear algorithm of action, and we're going to stick to it, all the other steps of the Party of Regions will be regarded as unacceptable practices of double standards and as actual denunciation of contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u3	Please, Baranowski and Bulba pass on the word Mendushu, 6 minutes. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u4	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, Tuesday’s May 29 events show what to say about the resolution of the political crisis so early. President Yushchenko talked a lot about peace, but when words are needed to move on, he shows a lack of compromise. Yesterday, once again, Valérie Helletaj, a person who was involved in an illegal seizure of the Attorney General's Office by the Department of State Security, tried to exert illegal pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court. There is no doubt that Yushchenko is aware of these actions, but remember, in a joint statement by the President, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it was said that interference with the work of the judiciary was unacceptable. In addition, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, John Plush, stated that the illegal orders of the Court of Justice concerning the appointment of Shemchuk to perform the duties of the Henprocuror, the resignation of the three judges of the Constitutional Court remained in force. Apparently, Victor Yushchenko is not going to cancel any other non-constitutional decrees concerning judges, courts of general jurisdiction, and continues to appoint officials in the courts of general jurisdiction, contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thus, Yushchenko believes that the will to compromise demonstrated by the National Unity Coalition in order to stop the outbreak of civil conflict in the country gives him reason to continue breaking the law. Victor Andryovich! I would like to state on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine that you will not be able to intimidate anyone. You and your tormented environment want wars, you want to eliminate all those who disagree with your policies. You need a strong script. And to that end, you continue to oppress the situation. For Balogah and his torture group, which are now printing all the decisions, it takes resistance. They want to provoke a collision, blood, so that Yashchenka has a reason for introducing a state of emergency in Ukraine, and no elections are made. The President's secretariat is trying to build its own pocket court vertical and subordinate itself to all the power structures. Ukrainian Socialists, along with other members of the National Unity Coalition, will not allow the final destruction of the judicial system in Ukraine and the provocation of mass unrest. We openly state that if Yushchenko continues to press against the Constitutional Court, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the District Courts, it will mean that he has decided to break all the agreements. We invite the President to stop the culinary policy and political raiding and to discuss directly in front of all the Ukrainians how the Agreement of 27 May between the President, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister is being implemented. The general public and our foreign partners should hear from the President on what grounds and on what right he continues to exert pressure on the judges and the courts, continue to provoke civil conflict by instilling forces in him. If the President was sincere when he spoke on May 27 about peace arrangements, he should not be afraid of direct dialogue, nor should he be afraid of his own citizens. It is also important to stop all discussions about the fact that the President seems to have resumed the work of the Supreme Council for just two days. The Supreme Council will continue to work until the authorizations of 151 people’s deputies under the Constitution of Ukraine are put in place. And this item found its reflection in the May 27 contract. If the President truly wants peace, he must bring about a system of things around him so that Ivy and Balog will stop declaring provocative and irresponsible statements. You can't rock a boat without that fragile compromise. On May 26, events showed that even the power structures refused to obey the illegal orders of the president’s manuals. The commanders will no longer send their fighters in arms and the Kyiv so that Hellette will be able to obtain a new rank for the organization of another provocation. There will be no war, Victor Andryovich, so stop playing the piano and stop talking about peace. It is time for peace in our country to be serious and permanent, and for no President to dare send any more internal forces to the Kyiv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u5	Thank you. Oleg Belarus, BUT faction. Prepare Bogchuk. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I urge coalition representatives to stop the verbal war. The statement is signed by all parties, and such provocative statements give nothing. I give the floor to the People's Deputy Kirilenko John.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u7	Ivan Kirilenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u8	As a result of an unprecedentedly high temperature that has over the past three weeks swept over Ukraine’s territory, the situation in agriculture in most parts of Ukraine has become disastrous. Grain seeds are being slaughtered in almost all parts of the country. The year is expected to be unproductive and extremely difficult for peasants. If we don't take urgent emergency measures, the bankruptcy of the leading sector is inevitable, because the total loss is expected to be at least 14 to 16 billion dollars. Catastrophe conditions will result in the increase of bread, meat - milk products, and vegetables. Each Ukrainian family will soon experience a serious price blow. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” states that the inaction of all levels of power in these conditions is unacceptable, and no calming predictions will stop that catastrophe, which is insurmountable in the countryside. We propose the following: today, first, without any forecast, the state of affairs analysis and without restrictions the export of grain from Ukraine openly. Daily, tens of tons of grains purchased at cheap prices in the summer are exported out of the country in the autumn of last year. Within a few weeks, hundreds of thousands of tons of grain will have to be purchased abroad on three roads. The other one. Despite numerous speeches, our bloc’s appeal, the peasant’s protests, continues to import extremely low-quality meat raw materials through free economic zones and areas of priority development. As a result, compared to 2005, the purchase price of domestic meat and its production for most agro-farms has doubled. As a result, catastrophic carnage continues, and this process can increase significantly this year due to the lack of feed crops. What do we propose? First, immediately stop the large-scale export of grain from Ukraine, buying it at market prices from owners of all forms of property, including traders and peasants and so forth. This must be done by Dererezers, the Agrarian Foundation, regions, large grain farmers, confectionery, and other businesses. The other one. Immediately take a decision to cancel for the agrarian farms that have suffered all taxes for one year, including a fixed tax under the applicable law. Third. For at least a year, defer the repayment of credit to commercial banks by compensating the interest rate on the basis of the State Budget. We did this in 2003. Four. Provide direct financial assistance to affected economies by partially compensating them for the loss of late crops that can still be saved, by conducting real negotiations with oil companies, and by agreeing on stable and affordable prices for farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u9	Yes, Bogchuk is passing on to Bulby, please. Borszewski's handing over Simones to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u10	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. It's good that the opposition understands that we have to do business, deal with things, including agriculture, and not make any provocations about elections that can't be declared legitimate right now, because there's no reason for an early election. I recall the electoral days of 2006 when the heads of the government, including me, were invited to the President's Secretariat and in the presence of the head of state, President Yushchenk, were assigned to each area, which the head of the government should provide for the "Our Ukraine" Block. And then one of the heads of the administration said, it's impossible. Imagine, he says, if I jump, I know I jump three meters, and I'm told, jump six meters. I can't do that. And then one of the heads of the Secretariat, the first deputy head of the Presidential Secretariat, said talentedly, you hear, and you're a triple leap. And he says, wait, it's a pit, it's a pit. And now the President, along with the so-called opposition, has dug a hole, dug a hole in the political crisis, and they're trying to beat us, the whole of Ukraine, with this three-way jump. Let them exercise themselves because it is clear to all that there is no basis for legal elections. And elections outside the law won't allow coalitions. And so please, if the President has already declared his decree unconstitutional, by agreeing to our work, please put this pit to sleep or write 150 or more applications for an early end to the authority of the national deputies, put it on our table, on the table of the Supreme Council. We will consider them, and then there will be discussions and reasons for talking about elections. Dear Society, I urge all of you to reconsider, I appeal to the opposition. Let's finally talk about real things, about the ponds that really bother the people. This is also the agricultural sector, this is other problems, let's work for the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Simonenko. The Communist faction and Kravchenko will give him six minutes, please. The next one is Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! At first, I would like to address Ivan Grigorievich, whom I have long known to respect, but today, dear Ivan Grigoryevich, I wish to say that I will reconsider my position. I don't know what Sirc you're going to be looking at. Who opposed the Janukovic Government when we decided to stop the export of grain from Ukraine last year? Didn't you yell at the whole country that we were traitors to Ukraine? Didn't you say you had to get all that grain out of the country? Didn't you put everyone under the monastery and say that we weren't marketers, that the hungry people left behind. That's what your inaction is all about. A criminal, muddy, lack of protection of national interests at all. That's what's causing you two months today, destroying power, destroying statehood. You're already criminals on a country-wide scale, you have to be responsible for what you've done with the country over the past two months. And so on. Respectable comrades, in fact. I believe that the Company initially expressed its principled position, and the faction defended it, could not sign the joint statement that was signed, because this statement looks like an ultimatum in the activities of the Supreme Council. Both the President and his team have, as we are witnesses today, an entirely different meaning when they signed each paragraph of the joint statement. And it has already denied the need to publish the register and decide that we have a voter register. And already the President's team yesterday, BUT and Our Ukraine have categorically stated that they do not want to and do not want to know, they will be holding elections on forged lists of the previous electoral company. They opposed the imperative mandate. And so the decree that was actually turned over throughout the country today made everyone think about what, do you see, this part of society, or political forces, are they preachers? No, you put the entire country in the swamp with these statements. You have waived the imperative mandate, you have opposed the legality and constitutionality of the elections, because instead of proposing political and legal mechanisms to get out of the crisis, you have proposed institutional and technological methods to ensure that all the tools for falsifying the elections are in your hands. To have the administrative resources of the heads of administration in your hands, to have an information resource, what you have done to have a voter register in your hands, which you do not wish to implement today. Just like the server you're going to fake the election. Thus, it was evident that the President and his orange team had embarked on a criminal course in the process of usurping power in the country. For the first stage they were unable to implement or intimidate society by banning the work of Parliament by an illegal decree. And that didn't happen immediately, because they have enough experience. Through the Fascism of society, they return to these methods of gebelsian propaganda and fascist methods of addressing the question of the usurpation of power. The second phase they started is the seizure of law enforcement agencies. And everyone has done something to destroy the law enforcement system in the country, to plant mistrust on it, and on this system, or the absence of that system and anarchy, to take power. The third phase is the organization of training and the introduction of state of emergency in the country. Once again, I want you to know, with our attention to the developments, the appointment of the Provoker Galatheus by the Office of Public Protection. It was not clear that the Gongadze case was organized by the same people. For the statement of Galatheus, which he made in terms of possible, so to speak, attempts and so forth, was almost the same on technology as all that had been done during the tragedy of Gongadze. Do we not witness with you that today, the President of the Office of the Attorney-General specifically created assumptions that we have three Attorney-Generals in the country today? Thus, the rule of law and the rule of law is virtually destroyed, and that is what we feel today. Did not the Constitutional Court destroy the President of Ukraine? Destroyed and thus excluded the possibility of taking a decision and condemning its order as illegal. He has done everything to ensure the prosperity of the judiciary and this judicial vacchanality as a result of the appointment of its same heads or judges. Whether he commits internal forces to him personally or not, he held talks on Saturdays before the Orthodox on Sunday, at which time he called the troops to Ukraine to shed blood. Is it not possible to say that, today, we understand that the President has crossed the line and that all societies are opposed to such actions, because the Fascism of society through the rehabilitation of Shuhević, Shuhević is Hauptman Abvera, two iron crosses from Hitler's hands, and today he takes him to saints, at the state level by decree of the century to mark Shuhevich. Stecko meets with the Fascist's bread on 30 June in Lviv 41, today's anniversary to organize. Those who have built the plagues, especially Petlura, an accountant whose blood is only 150,000 Jews here, after the Jewish pogroms in Kiev, and whose monuments are set up for him. Doesn't that say that the President has come a long way, and he has forgotten that there is a history of the glorious people of Ukraine who are their heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u14	And in the end. Respectable comrades, our actions. The Supreme Council must continue its work, no matter what our decrees. I invite Ukrainian citizens to join in the collection of signatures that we are holding today for mistrust with the President and to decide on the President's early election and, in the end, to put an end to it. And today, I want to draw everyone's attention to the following: Yushchenko is no longer a threat to democracy, Yushchenko is a threat to the integrity of the country and to the unity of our people, so I believe that all measures must be taken to exclude its continued governance of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u15	Viacheslav Lukyanov, Party of Regions Please get ready for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u16	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished representatives of the media! I would like to inform you of the insincere and insincere position of our opponents of our opposition, and they publicly state that they insist on holding a timely election as soon as possible. And in fact, when it comes to solving specific issues, they break these agreements and do everything they can to prevent any practical steps from being taken. As an example, I would like to cite this morning's meeting of the Committee of State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. On this committee, we had to consider drafts that related to the conduct of the early elections that were part of the so - called small package. This is the Bill of July Timoshenko on the status of the People's Deputy, the Bill of Amendments to the Bill on the Election of People's Deputies. But I would like to inform you that most of the opposition deputies were absent from this meeting and have thus cancelled the meetings and cancelled the agreements between the President and the Prime Minister, because there was no possibility under the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, under the "Working Committees" Act to implement these agreements and to review these bills. This, therefore, underscores the fact that trust and agreement in this situation cannot be made; it is only in accordance with the existing legislation and legislation that will be adopted and approved by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u17	Thank you. The stone is passed to Yuri Odarchenka. Please. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to reconsider the state of affairs in agriculture. I represent the Herson area, where the drought that exists, where the weather conditions, they most catastrophically touched this area. Now about 40 percent of the seedlings of early grains and early winters have died in the Hersonian region. Therefore, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” requires urgent urgent action from the Cabinet of Ministers, Yanukovich. And what we're saying right now is that this is particularly the case for animals, because animals are actually on the verge of being killed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u19	Wait, Yuri Vitaliovich, please wait. Dear colleagues! Come on, I understand that you strongly support the desire of the Timoshenko Block to work in Parliament. I'm also supportive, but let's just calm down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u20	I want to emphasize the absolute sequence of our position when it comes to an expert grain. Today, there is a disaster with grain in Ukraine. And we see in the Herson area how much grain is being exported today. We clearly understand that tomorrow the state will be buying it at an entirely different price. And today, through the agrarian fund, through other government structures, we need to make such purchases so that the breadwinners don't have the opportunity to raise prices and not be at the level of disaster. Now I want to emphasize the sequence of the party's position, the Communist Party, now that we're here, we've had so much talk, the Party of the Regions in places. When it comes to talking, and I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens, and when it comes to speaking from this high hall, it all sounds really good. When it comes to what interests people, about tariffs in places, the position of the Party of Regions in places is completely different. I can testify to the following. When housing tariffs were unwarranted in Herson, there was an open position for the commission at prices, an anti-monopoly committee. I was talking to Deputy Prime Minister Rybak, who said yes, we should order the tariffs. But the local factions do not make any decisions at all. That is why it takes these early elections to be true and honest before our electorate, including in places like this. Now I, we have a number of very specific measures on agriculture, including providing direct financial assistance to affected farms, partially compensating for their costs of growing later crops that cannot be saved. Have real, not showy, negotiations with oil companies, agree on stable and affordable prices for peasants. Carefully analyze it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u21	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u22	Thank you. Sand faction of the Party of the Regions. Great colleagues, great voters, great citizens of Ukraine! Notice, the opposition is leaving the hall. Here's your deal. Here's your honesty. Here's what they promise us, they promise our people. What's going on in the country now? The events surrounding the Constitutional Court, when the so-called Helette personally heads the operation to block the Constitutional Court, prove that they spit on the Council of Europe, even though they say they are Europeans. There is no myth that they are Europeans. They're lawbreakers. The events surrounding the Attorney General's Office and the appearance of representatives of the BSS in a court where the case of the procurator-in-law concerning the illegality of his removal from office is again an indication of how the President implements the Constitution and the rule of law. The harsh statements made by John Plush, who, in violation of the State Service Act, holds the position of Secretary of the RNB, prove that the President's Secretariat violates the agreement of three Heads of State, which makes it necessary to keep the signatures of the leaders of the coalition under application on May 27, if such events continue. Ladies and gentlemen, you have left the hall, but you are now listening because you are very interested. There was another one who said that the factions of the Party of Regions and Coalition were responsible. Your governors, the governors do everything they can to make a deal with the President and in your area. And you don't have to confuse what's real here and what you want. The people have already taken care of yours. The next moment. You're saying you have to be in charge. But again, think of the moment you write your application and file your credentials, you will voluntarily give up the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy. And it's not just your pensions, it's not just your touchiness, it's still gonna have to be responsible for your raiding and all the crimes you've committed. And in case there's an election, and sociology shows that your rating is dropping, and you're not going to be more than 50 to 60 in each faction, and there's going to be another coalition, and all people are going to make the right decision, and we're going to be able to work. For the last 30 seconds, I'm asking you to give our colleague Drought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u23	Well, it's not going to make it to Drought anymore. Please turn on the drought, but there is no time left. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I have to say a few words about our fellow fighters. You know, it's a shame to listen when the questions are raised and they're used for their own purposes. For many days now, we, the Coalition and the “Regions”, have worked out a series of bills and proposals and the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister himself, the Deputy Prime Minister of the countryside, which must be done in order to at least remedy this situation in which agriculture is located. Shame and shame on you assholes!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u25	Simone's replica, please. Simonenko's line. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to say the first thing. At the request of BUTU and Our Ukraine, the President prohibits the activities of the Supreme Council at the time when decisions on the 2008 budget are to be taken, as well as decisions to help farmers in the face of the crisis that is now taking place. And the catastrophe that is coming back, and it's inevitable. And we need backup. But to do that, you have to set aside money and change the budget, look for it, redistribute it, and so forth. Here is BUT and “Our Ukraine” are the ones that are practically destroying our village today. And the last one in the lineup. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to propose the following. Only then should we continue to work on those laws that are proposed in the list of joint statements signed by the three, when 150 applications will lie on the chairman's table, so that we don't have what is here, constantly being accused, but they themselves do not comply with the decision of this statement. 150 applications for credentials.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. Please be careful! I understand that the political debate in this room can't be messy, because this situation, first of all, is heating up outside Parliament. I'm asking for your attention! It warms up outside the Parliament and I don't think it's an accident. Therefore, we need to focus on what we are going to do next. What is it? Yesterday we held a meeting of faction leaders, discussed issues that need to be addressed to Parliament yesterday and today. They also discussed the need to prepare questions related to Ukraine’s introduction to the World Trade Organization, some other bills to be considered in Parliament. However, we have had a heated discussion about the content of the documents to be considered here. It's no coincidence that the three-week work commission worked on them, found no common ground, and in yesterday's day, the obvious thing is that finding compromises where they haven't been found in three weeks is very difficult. However, yesterday we discussed three bills that did not raise any particular objections and found a common basis for voting. You may have noticed that yesterday all documents were voted on, virtually all by the constitutional majority. It's okay. So with regard to the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies. Our opposition colleagues do not clearly understand the norm that presupposes a barrier to election. Because we come from the fact that there can't be a elected parliament when 70 percent of the voters vote, and the next election is when 20 percent of the voters come in and overturn 70 percent of the voters. And this may be when elections are held in an unconstitutional way – the right idea and the right technology is imposed and people protesting, not going to the elections, the political forces do not participate in them as they tried to do according to the decrees: in two months to carry out what is decommissioned at least three months in order to conduct normal public and, as it were, honest elections. Therefore, it is clear that there will be a sharp discussion as if you were oriented in this matter. There is a sharp lack of acceptance of our entry into force of the amendment to the State Register Act, because we predict that before the election campaign starts, we will use the possibility of a state register to be expected to have a more fair definition of the number of voters and their participation in the vote, directly taking part in the vote. There is no need to use data from the Border Service to refer to objective indicators for someone who is abroad. There are different arguments here, but you mean that we have about seven million citizens abroad. If we vote for them here, we, I mean, conditionally, in the state someone will vote for them, you can imagine what will be the results, who will control, who will vote, what will be the sums of the elections. Of course, we cannot agree to this, so this proposal is the subject of a heated discussion. The hottest discussions took place with regard to the draft law amending the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, which deals with the need for an imperative mandate. I'd like to emphasize again – I'm asking for your attention! – the imperative mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the reasoning of all normal people is anachronism, it dictates to the deputy, because there is no party that does not speak, the mandate is given to the deputy, and depending on who is on the list of deputies. And the decision of the Supreme Court in one of the cases that dealt with the problem was that the citizen goes to the polling station with a list of depots. no one can divide him, that he voted only for the leader, not for another candidate whom he knows, who he trusts, who knows his position. [[I'm not going back to her right now.]] That's why all the conjectures we have. We're talking about the mandate of a party in parliament, it's a very big legal invention that's not being seen around the world. So to go on an imperative mandate, and for the citizens, that is, to the extent that the faction has excluded the MP from its membership, it loses the MP's mandate. the mandate of the deputy. This means the full enslavement of the deputy, which means he'll never be able to express his position, his program, he'll vote like the faction manager will tell him, because he'll always come up with it. Or the party manager will always come up with a reason to ask questions about his exclusion based on corporate interest in his group. We can't let that happen in any way, because it's a 100-year-old legacy of democracy. Why is this being done? In order to force today's faction members to write statements, because they can be warned about getting out of the faction, because you can be warned that otherwise we will expel you from the faction in the next summoning, you will be deprived of parliamentary authority. In the discussion held at the Presidential Administration with representatives and the “Julia Timoshenko Block”, in particular, and “Our Ukraine”, I made other arguments. When we talk about political corruption, about the fact that the faction votes in one way or another, that the MP is motivated to vote accordingly, we don't forget another: that, for example, a small fraction of which, let's say, 40 deputies are located, have their own corporate interest, and they can vote for the right laws of society, for those laws that convince the faction that it should vote, but only under certain conditions. I mean, "you do us some favors, then we vote what everyone needs, and we don't vote." Because it's up to one man or woman, the faction manager. We can't let that happen, so we don't have the right to go to the mandatory mandate. I'm saying this in advance, knowing that this position has been defined by the deputies for a long time, and in the coalition it's completely understood. There are other problems that arise here, for example, in the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, a project that today advocates opposition, which suggests that if an MP makes an application for an exit from the faction, he can no longer write an application for the annulment of that claim. In other words, it is pressed in a separate location, such as a convention or in an individual order: “You write a statement, it will not be used. Write that we should view you as a man politically loyal to the course of a party produced here." And then this statement is used as an argument. And when a person refuses such a statement, they say, “No, you have no right to write such a statement.” When this rule is applied in the Rules on Signatures to the Constitutional Court with an appropriate application, it refers to the relationship between the two institutions and the procedure for preparing the matter, for example, in the Constitutional Court. And this is the most important institution you can't play with, whether you've given it or not. And when it comes to the MP, it's his fate and the fate of the other deputies, depending on this curve. Hence, he must make his own conclusions and make his own decisions with full consciousness. That's what this is about. I'd like you to pay attention to these nuances in the sessional mode. Well, finally, other questions. But either way, before they're brought before Parliament, they have to be properly prepared, reconciled, and I'm making this proposal: in those moments, in those points of the laws that are proposed for consideration, where there is no common approach, there are a number of options that need to be made, i.e. two options, one such, one another. Then by voting, whether by a reduced procedure or by full procedure, it is no longer particularly important. But it has to be conscious, clear, conscious, I would say yes, more specifically, a vote. Well, that's how I think it is. I can't explain right now why two factions won't participate. Well, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is currently in the President's talks, and maybe there's a team, I don't know. And "Our Ukraine" didn't go into the session hall. I just got back from meeting with the President, before, more faithfully, after that, I've also met with a committee of European Parliament deputies. By the way, in the context of our conversation, they said, they, you know, are not left-wing representatives, because there was only one of them from a party of Socialists from Romania, and others said, "The European Parliament doesn't understand the desire to introduce an imperative mandate in Ukraine." We will never accept that. And with regard to the President's meeting, it was about the need for all parties to comply with the statement signed three days ago because it was about that. I don't think we should interfere with the court's branch of authority. There's been a conversation during the MPs' speeches, and I'm not going to repeat myself. And the point is that it is necessary for the position of a declaration that has been made public to be followed by all the entities that have signed it, and all the structures of authority that must ensure the realization of what is called compromise. That's the situation today. I'm about to announce a recess and ask the faction heads to gather on the third floor for consultations. Break until 2:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m0.u28	One message that the council is off-limits, and the other message is less pleasant that by 4:00 a.m., it's a break. By the 16th.
