ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs, guests and invited to the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[10:00:34]] There are 259 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome Aunt Volodymyr Drought on her birthday, and we wish to continue to have them, including in the session room. [[Applause]] Please don't relax, there's an entry for performances in “Variable”, please log in. Today, there are three minutes from the National Deputies. Kalashnikov, more modest, more modest. Yes, please, Plotnikov. Who? Who, and who else, and Lukyanov? Please, Plotnikov and Lukyanov - six minutes Jaduk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The slanderous publication in the “Washinqton Times” by Dr. Ariel Cohen’s senior scientific colleague caused strong indignation and strong protest in responsible, patriotic Ukrainian politicians. The author claims that the Ukrainian government is unable to provide an adequate legal environment for Western investors. As an illustration of Ariel Cohen, I say that the quota for grain exports has struck investors, as a result, millions of tons of grain have been dumped into the Black Sea and hundreds of millions of dollars have been lost by exporting peasants. The Government of Ukraine is responsibly claiming that exporters have been given an unhindered opportunity to export quota products after the creation of government food stocks. And the myths of drowned or eaten by insects are repugnant by the facts. The inhospitable myth, designed by Mr. Cohen, is designed for completely uninformed people who do not know that millions of tons is practically the entire volume of our grain exports, and it is not technically possible to empty the hold of dry cargo in the open sea. As the senior scientist imagines, this operation is a mystery for sober - minded people. The correctness of the government’s actions to protect the internal market in terms of undernourished crops was first confirmed by the spring of this year, when the prices for bread were stabilized by the state’s production of grain stocks. Similarly, if not prejudiced, the master is referring to the facts of political life in Ukraine. Yes, he claims that the majority of the population of the Russian - speaking Crimea Peninsula are already in favor of reunification with Russia. On what basis is such a provocative statement made? At the same time, a serious and objective researcher cannot help but admit that more than the government of Viktor Yanukovic in 2003-2004, and now, for reforms in Ukraine, no one has done. Almost two years of “orange” power has been completely lost to reforms. And just now, the Yanuković government has drafted a draft Tax Code, a bill on judicial reform is already being considered in Parliament, and a reform of social and pension security is being prepared. Only the Januković government has clearly rejected all discussions on administrative change in ownership rights, launched the largest privatisation programme in all years of independence through auctions and the stock market, and embarked on reform and modernization of the judicial system, so that it clearly protects property rights from any unlawful infringement. Of course, Dr. Cohen has the right to his own assessment of everything that's going on in Ukraine, but if assessments have nothing to do with the principle of scientific integrity, but even basic political validity, it requires a proper correction. Actually, the whole article of Mr. Cohen: a weak Ukraine can become an easy prey to Russia -- is a set of lying claims and demeaning characteristics. The Doctor of Philosophy is about to swear as a concubine: the aggressive prime minister, the weak president, the chaotic and corrupt parliament, the unprofessional and possibly corrupt courts, the unwarranted constitution, such arrogant evaluations as the overcrowded article, which are worthy of study, not by political scientists, but by judicial investigators. So Dr. Cohen is finishing his opus with an amazement over cynicism about the US government's involvement in Ukraine's internal affairs. The Bush administration has spent a great deal of political capital supporting the orange revolution and would not want the pro-Moscow and anti-reform regime to bring Ukraine into the swamp. In this case, Ukraine may lose its chance of membership in NATO and the European Union. Only a timely parliamentary election, a comprehensive reform of the Constitution and the state administration system and a new reform team can pull Ukraine out of the abyss and get it out of the west orbit. It is also surprising that these lines are written under the direction of the leaders of the Ukrainian destructive opposition, or are right for those who believe, on the contrary, statements by the leaders of the opposition are made by American experts such as Dr. Cohen. Where did they see a gap for a country that has restored high economic growth, raised social standards, restored deep democratic reforms? The breakthrough can only be seen in the direction indicated by the intransigence of the team of regent failures and the American explorer. In view of Mr. Cohen, objective scientific sociological research has repeatedly witnessed in recent years. As the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens, more than 70 per cent do not want our country to join NATO, and the European Union, unlike Ukraine's strong military political bloc, gives us no prospect of entry. The party of regions condemns clearly unobjective and non-friendly statements by Dr. Cohen in relation to Ukraine, the legitimate parliament and the government, which, among other things, is the co-chair of the American-U.S. Political Dialogue Committee. In such a tone and from such positions, a constructive dialogue is not conducted. We also believe that the official authorities of Ukraine should give an assessment of the public, unfriendly position of the actor, and that they should announce him as an undesirable person in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u3	Thank you. Vasil Stepanovich, perhaps after such a powerful performance, you and Cohen will have to share your fee for advertising it in Ukraine. And no one would know about him if you hadn't told me. Yes, please, Bondarenko Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u4	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u5	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u6	Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u7	Ephraim? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. I'll get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected TV viewers and radio listeners, I would like to emphasize your attention to the extremely dangerous precedents that are set in our lives. Yesterday, in the middle of the day, a group of seven employees from the BSS tried to seize the Ministry of Justice information centre. After Minust's security requested an explanation, they crossed the fence, and only the metal doors became an obstacle to them. At the same time, the other eight staff members, on the pretext of serving the agenda, tried, in fact, to seize the staff member of the notary service to exert pressure and obtain, as we understand, information from his task of “necessary” in coffeehouses. Comparing this with the fact that the President has recently signed 34 indicated that the provisions of which do not meet the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, we have to note that the President's environment ignores the basic democratic principle of the rule of law, and the force institutions subordinated to the President's Secretariat are actually beginning to engage in political pursuits and perform gendarmerie functions. Therefore, today we have the right to ask the Attorney General's Office why the Ukrainian Security Service has become a “hazard service” and who is to blame? The answer to this question will help everyone who is striving to live by the principles of a democratic society in our country, and who, for the sake of meeting their personal ambitions, is drawing us into the midst of totalitarianism and medieval ignorance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u9	Yes, Boris Bilash, please. None. Philindash Eugene. Who? Melniczuk? Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. That's what I used to say to Billash. Oh, well, after Melniczuk, Gusarov. Okay, okay. He refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u10	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Chernobyl Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, voters, radio audiences, TV sets! The show, called the "honest presidential elections" that they are trying to impose on the voters of the bankrupt opposition, has nothing to do with democracy and the will of the people. The people of Ukraine made their choice in 2006 when the world declared elections to be the most transparent and just. I would like to say that today’s events in Ukraine are, for example, the consequences of those promises on the field that were so popular with giving, say, the leaders of today’s opposition. This should be acknowledged honestly, not saying that there is a need for honest men to be held in the Supreme Council to protect their people. We have already seen methods of protection, such as the 8 billion in the EESU debt budget, collective family trips to the national Olympics. We also saw these honest boys, the national-conscious patriot Yvchenka, who counted foreign loans for his treasure, other prime ministers, who tripled the tariffs, Prime Minister Timoshenko, who spent up to $230 in gas. Now they appeal to patriotism, the last refuge of the bastards, as Leo Tolstoy said. I would also like to mark the following. As we know, the best way to protect ourselves is to attack. True, the orange boys chose Alexander Frost as their target. I want to tell them you don't like it. They still do not understand that a politician who has implemented the European model of government in the country has more authority both in Ukraine and abroad than those who are fighting for the return of the President to the authority of the Byzantine queen and a firm right in parliament as an imperative mandate. How could it not be understood that they had been abandoned long ago by a more experienced Timoshenko, who would be returning butt deputies to work in a seemingly disbanded parliament? There is a crisis of conspiracy between BUT, "Our Ukraine" and the People's Self-Defense about early parliamentary elections. Or maybe Julia Volodymyrna was just afraid of competition with Grandma Paraska. Although the only opposition has once again shown to the whole of Ukraine that its strength depends on the distribution of chairs on the higher levels of authority and the principle of the place on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Sergey Gussarov. Prepare the Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The tightening of political opposition caused problems related to public order. Extremist elements try to provoke force action. The next attempt took place on April 20. About 8 a.m., up to 10 followers of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, led by the National Deputy of BUTU Kowzel, tried to pass through the militia's chain to the seal of the National Unity Coalition near the House of the Constitutional Court. The police offered the National Deputy Kowzel a free passage through the chain, but his companions were not missed for the purpose of not allowing the fight. Then Kowzel began to pull out of the police force and the uniforms of the main outfits, and the persons accompanying him tried to break the chain by force. The police stopped the illegal acts, collected the material and sent it to the prosecutor’s office. It's not an accident. It seems that the management of the BIT is firmly refusing to act in the legal field, which is a violation of the law — an essential feature of this political force. Hence extremism, a tendency to force methods. This follows literally at every turn, from individual incidents, such as the beating of a DAI employee, to group violations, such as the blackout of electricity in the Supreme Council Hall. Having given many years to the work of law enforcement agencies, I cannot admit it. conduct that is worthy. Contrary to the law and the will of the electorate, the BUT faction has moved away from participating in the work of the Supreme Council, initiating demands for its unconstitutional dissolution. It's the chosen strategy to achieve the goal by any means possible. That's right. Is she a success? Hardly, for the people see what is happening and draw the right conclusions. One of the aims of the provocation on April 20th is to prevent the normal work of the Constitutional Court. It's also a clear position of the B.U.T. Remember, at least try not to let the judges into the courtroom. Now there's a thesis on not admitting the Constitutional Court's decision if our opponents don't like it. We should not seek a better example of legal nihilism. In connection with the instructor, he would like to address the national deputies with a call not to embarrass himself by taking part in the wrong actions, but even more so in their organization. The people did not choose us to break the law. I want to say to the police, be guided only by the law, not by political affections. Offences, whoever commits them, should be determined to stop. In such a case, you are always supported by thoughtless national MPs. It should be remembered that the presence of a badge and even a certificate does not guarantee that a person is a national deputy. There is a procedure for setting up a person to be applied. The management of the IMF should monitor the facts of opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u13	The generals are actually very concise, so finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u14	The Ministry of Internal Affairs should monitor the facts of the opposition to the legal requirements of law enforcement officials, ensure that they are properly documented and promptly accompanied in the course of judicial proceedings. It is bound to protect the police, the faithful oath, and the duty of service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u15	Thank you. Gorbenko gives the word to Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich, please. Get ready, Kuzmenko's handing over Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u16	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! According to media reports, members of the Central Electoral Commission, among them and those representing the leadership, addressed the Constitutional Court, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 April 2007. Referring to part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 3 of the Ukrainian CLP Act, as well as taking as a basis the pledge of a member of the CLTC to the Ukrainian people to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving issues that fall within the authority of the CLF and to abide by these powers exclusively by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the following points are made. “The conduct of successive elections is not properly regulated by the Electoral Act and creates a significant number of problems. The apparent ambiguity, the issue of the legal mechanism for the formation of district election committees, and the divisional commissions. The amount of funding for the preparation and election of national deputies is governed by a national budget, which, according to part four of article 49 on the election of national deputies, is listed by the National Treasury of the CLTC in three days. Also, the issue of making voters’ lists is not settled. In spite of all this, the initiators of the early elections, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, addressed the Pecher District Court of Kiev on April 12 with an administrative appeal to the CIA to declare unlawful inaction not to create in Ukraine's elected legislation the terms of district election committees. The court answered that question by its ruling. I quote: “On the basis of article 172, 176 of Ukraine, the court approved the administrative action of the political party block ‘Blank of Yulia Timoshenko’ to the Central Electoral Commission on the recognition of unlawful inaction against the creation in Ukraine of terms of district election committees appointed on 27 May, without consideration.” As much as it takes to push everything and not to love Ukraine, the next step at any cost from illegal elections is to be taken when charged with a block of decision by the Pecher Court to the High Court of Appeal. However, the court also ruled that, on the basis of articles 177, 179, 198, 205 of the Code of Administrative Justice, the representative of the political party’s constituency block, Timoshenko, had accepted the appeal and the approval of the Cave Court of April 18th. In addition, the Supreme Administrative Court has adopted a separate resolution. I quote: “The creation of commissions outside the time limits set out in Part Three on the election of national deputies may also call into question the results of these elections.” Thus, the higher administrative court is also challenged in advance by the results of the elections, for this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u18	Because it's the final court hearing. And the administrative court wrote down that the circumstances established by the court must be brought to the attention of the President and the Central Electoral Commission, and the acquittal is not to be heard. Thus, the holding of early elections in accordance with the President's decree is virtually annulled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Bondarchuk. Get ready. Baburin gives it to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u20	National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour with the participation of members of the Committees on Justice, Construction, Architecture and Housing and the Committee on Privatization. Other committees, including members of the parliamentary opposition, as well as the head of the Ukrainian State Foundation Valentin Semenyuk, representatives of the Attorney General’s Office, the Human Rights Commissioner, representatives from the regions, mainly from city councils, associations, trade unions, and employers, also took part in the meetings. This representative meeting discussed the problem of working groups, worked out the general concept of how to deal with it, made specific proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Department, the Henprocuratorium and other institutions, and also made requests to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Council of Justice, which we believe are to be part of the solution to the problem. The National MP, Matthewenko, presented his bill on the subject. This is an extremely acute social problem. Because in so - called labor hostels, there are basically 2.5 million of our fellow countrymen. Some families have been living there for decades, losing the last hope of improving housing conditions, and they may also be kept out of hostels. The problem has worsened and requires an urgent solution that, using the imperfections of our legislation and the uncontrolledness of the authorities, in many cases the hostels are included in statutory farm funds that have given the formal right to sell them to the last and to throw them into the streets. In the past year, the holding fund has returned up to 200 dormitories to state property through the courts. In this way he protected the right of residents to housing. But this is a long way to go, and the process of evicting people goes on every day. So we want to protect people socially and solve this problem. In doing so, the rights of farm societies regarding so - called bachelor hostels must be protected, and the purpose of such hostels must be preserved. I say all of this in order to invite our colleagues from the opposition who are wandering around Kiev and the areas, preparing another revolution, going back to the session room, and doing specific legislation. Believe me, you're more needed here, because there are more pressing problems that we're going to solve together faster and more qualitatively. I've only named one of them, but there's a lot of x problems. Come back, it's not too late! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u21	Thank you. Matthew Valentine, a faction of Communists. Prepare Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u22	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, today the question is, how do we get out of the political crisis created by the President and his orange environment? The answer to that question is only one: stabilize the situation, return to your rightful course, and only the right way. And we all see that there are two possible options: the first is that the President cancels his non-constitutional decree on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Parliament then cancels its decisions on this matter. The second option is that both sides of the political opposition, taking up their stamina, not pouring oil into the fire created by the “loving friends” of the conflict, are awaiting a decision by the Constitutional Court. Undoubtedly, the solution to the conflict in this way does not involve such aggressive pseudo oppositions as Timoshenko, Lucenko, and others, who repeatedly claim that they do not accept the decision of the Constitutional Court, whatever it may be. And it is not excluded that they will take radical action not only against the parliamentary coalition, the government, but also against the Yushchenk himself. And here it is proper to warn: gentlemen, for to the people you were and remain masters, cease your playing with fire. Didn't the lessons of the 2004 Orange Revolution teach you anything?Oh, my God! Only a blind person may fail to see that all these political games you play have become a nuisance; they want peace, stability, and order. And finally, about the playful comedy with the time-consuming composition of the parliamentary powers of the so-called opposition from BUT and “Our Ukraine”, which is far from participating in the consideration and adoption of their legislative acts, and then leaving the session room again to the parliamentary elections they so desired. But as the people say, they can’t possibly be a little pregnant. In other words, mention your office when it is convenient for them. Do not act in front of your own people; he is able to distinguish truth from falsehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u23	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. But let's be clear: not as many “loving friends” were pushed by a fighting friend with a field brigade. Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov – to whom? - Marmalade, please. The killer's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention, in my view, to an issue of great importance for the protection of Ukraine's national interests, and specifically to the countering of foreign intelligence attacks on our economic, military and other State secrets. Recently, the press, the newspaper Komsomolska Pravda of 20 April, reported the transfer to the West of about ten volumes of technical documentation to our AN-70 military aircraft, the best aircraft in this category. For several years, Europeans have negotiated the purchase of this aircraft with our air carrier. The forest was largely forested by technical documentation, and Europeans refused to enter into a contract. During that time, a European A 400M aircraft project appeared, which is virtually indistinguishable from AN-70. Specialists believe that this was the most brilliant NATO intelligence operation against Ukraine in terms of industrial espionage. As a result, Ukraine lost billions of dollars. Legal issues arise. How could our intelligence do this to us? Who took responsibility for this? How is the protection of State secrets even established in the country? It's a bigger problem, though. What kind of security secrets can be talked about if. Let us say that the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has a permanent representative of the British military agency, which has been admitted to the most closed documents. The same agency carried out a so-called defence review or inspection of the armed forces of Ukraine. Everything in the armed forces has been shown to the crowds. Such a review is now being carried out at the Ukrainian Security Service and also with the NATO advisers. This is justified by considerations of a strategic partnership with NATO. But as you can see, the partners are strategic. And our secrets are stolen in black. Well, there is an urgent need for order in these matters, and it is incumbent upon the President, the guarantor of sovereignty, the independence of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council needs to follow up on this and, in general, should be thoroughly examined in the exercise of parliamentary control over the work of the special services, especially the Ukrainian Security Service, which in the years of the Presidency has suffered such a blow that it is expected to be effectively protected by public interests, especially with such leadership as is now very difficult. But you have heard that my colleague, Ephraim, told me what the HQ is doing. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary address to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u25	Thank you. Leonid Mordovian, please. Stepan Bulba will pass the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. During the election, we have a new kind of business in Ukraine. It is that those who are involved in the formation of party lists after each election campaign are able to build huts, for example, in the center of Kiev, for example, in the district of Tatar, as formerly-convincing socialist of Winsky, or “lighted terrace with balcony to sea”, Kyivsky, as the other lady. I don't think it's a coincidence that these revolutionaries are demanding another election because it's another opportunity to make a lot of money. I am convinced that if Winsky were to be able to form party lists, no matter what party, he would have initiated the election quarterly so that only those who wanted to get on the list would have enough money. And when these opponents say that the election is going to be cheap for the budget, for taxpayers, well, there's 400 or 700 million dollars, they're not telling the whole truth. And I want us not to fool our fellow countrymen, because, first of all, the election is an exacerbation of the political situation, it is stagnation, and this political crisis will eventually turn into an economic crisis. Next, our pro-Atlantic opposition needs to understand, and they understand, and the people need to know that all of this will necessarily result in worse relations with Russia, which will have to defend their economic interests more severely until they review the gas agreements. Today, they are selling $130 per thousand cubic metres of gas to Ukraine. We want to have $230 per thousand cubic meters. That's what we need to talk about. Finally, another very important subject. You will recall that we have undertaken to prepare legislation for the introduction of the earth’s civil market. If we don't, our land will be going where we know it's going to be introduced by the young revolutionaries as of January 1, 2008. And that's why I want the people to understand the dangers of successive elections as well as any instability in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, communication is over. We will proceed to the realization of today’s order of the day. We need to get into the agenda and consider a number of drafts. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 149 of the Ukrainian Land Code as regards the order of land removal. Registration number 3452. [[10:35:19]] For 235 Decision taken. The question is included. Please report to the committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Bevanko Valerij Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your view is on the draft Act amending article 149 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the order of land removal, introduced by me and the Ukrainian National Deputies Selchenk, Melnik and Parubk. The bill proposes to amend part 9 of article 149 of the Code of Land and to authorize the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to remove grills and plantations that are regularly used for non-agricultural purposes of more than 10 hectares and forests for non-forestry needs of more than 1 hectare. Such changes would allow for the removal of the legal coalitions that arise in the application of the Earth’s code. The proposed changes will allow for a clear regulation of the clearance of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the removal of land of state-owned property that is in constant use, as well as for the simplification of the order of disposal of these lands, since the agriculture and long-term plantings of up to 10 hectares will be able to remove local self-government and executive authorities according to the powers defined by the Ukrainian Code of Land. In fact, the bill proposes to revert to article 149 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which was in force before March of last year, to the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a new edition of the Ukrainian Code of Forests, which changed the current norm of the article of the Ukrainian Code of Land. It supports the adoption of the bill by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Derzcomym, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In view of the committee’s presentation, he suggests that it be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u29	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, six minutes. Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Mrs. Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u31	Please, Katerina Samuels, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u32	Thank you very much. I want to clarify some of the questions, because, in fact, the earth is a matter of very big politics, especially for our citizens right now. And I'm very concerned, like the entire faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, that we don't have to deal with the very tragic question in part like this, because all the fighting in Ukraine has always gone to the ground all the time. Consider the famous writings about the earth. But please tell me, in which cases you foresee this bill to remove land, and not just land, you don't just predict land. And once again, the land issue is too tragic for the Ukrainian people for all ages, so we need to be careful. But explain to me the reasons why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u33	I just want to say one thing that there is a great deal of reason to remove the land of the state and to transfer it for use, for continuous use. These are the basic social needs, as well as the construction of roads. Construction of highway pipelines, construction of airports, construction of careers, construction of useful mines, and construction of businesses So the thing is, it's not about selling this land today. But the point is that the countries of stock that are in the state may be able to change the target assignment, that is to say, for other purposes that are socially needed. So we're only regulated by this article by the rule of law, as far as we're concerned: one hectare, or two, or ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u34	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u35	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Valérie Fedorovich, in your explanatory note to this bill, you note in particular the purpose and purpose of adopting this law that it is designed to improve the order of land removal. Please tell me what order it is, when the law is currently in force, that the Cabinet of Ministers removes land areas of more than one hectare for non-forestry needs, you are now setting a standard when the Cabinet of Ministers removes land of state property that is in constant use, covering more than 10 hectares and forests for non-forestry needs over one hectare. So what's the order here?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u36	This order was in force in our country until March of last year, and that was the order. But after March of last year, at the end of the fourth cadence, we changed the norm, and not everyone immediately responded to the business that needs the land to that standard. This rule was usually decided in places, i.e. by a decision of the district council and the local government. So now dozens of applications to change this standard have been copied in the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Cabinet of Ministers can't handle it on their own today, because that's what you have to check every time you go to the place to see if that's what you need. And that's what local councils do best.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u37	They could have, they can't now, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u38	You realize that the Cabinet doesn't do this on its own, it does it through the system of the Statecomme.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u39	The Cabin is responsible. Kabin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u40	All right, don't argue out of order. Have a seat, please. Although the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't ask us to do that, as you can see. Yes, have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to participate in the discussion, please sign up. There are no factions. Who wants the MPs? Melniczuk Mikhailo, please. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u41	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! There is no doubt that this bill needs to be supported and, of course, we will do everything we can to have it voted today. First of all, I'd like to know what the reaction will be to the President of Ukraine, what the reaction will be to the opposition. That today, members of the coalition are working in parliament, enacting laws, these laws will necessarily affect the situation in the country. But we know that the President's Secretariat, including the heads of the Secretariat there, is bringing back the legislative acts that are being adopted in this room, let's say, Parliament. I still can't understand who's in Ukraine, who's in Ukraine, who's in the village, who's in the country, who's in the country, who's in the country, who's in the country. Perhaps today the situation is crystallized when people, especially peasants, when it comes to the bill, realize that today the coalition for the people, because those who don't want to work, adopt laws that would affect me, repeat the situation in the country, let's say, which is today too complicated. Even before that, instead of doing the government in principle, we are giving, today, we are responding to the numbered requests of the Secretariat when, say, the funding of the electoral campaign is open. Of course, there is only one thing they have today: election campaign, distribution of chairs, and so on. And what is done in Ukraine, what is done in the country? And here's a warning that in his speech he was told by a national MP from the faction of the Socialist Party of Bulba, it's the foundation. That's what I'm talking Because we understand that today the accumulated capital, which is in the bulk of the sums, including those that are being covered up today, is already ready to collect hundreds of thousands of acres of Ukrainian land. And so I understand for whom today, for example, the situation of opposition is a principle, so let us not do anything, perhaps we will reach a new year, and then, after January 1, 2008, we will be buying into the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u42	Thank you. Yes, we have a deputy head of the State Agency for Land Resources, Galina Mikolayevna Yacishina. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u43	The Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u44	So you put your work in place. And that's right. Let the government administrations distribute. Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Amendments to Article 149 of the Ukrainian Land Code on how to remove land. [[Registration number 3452]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:47:14]] For 225 Who's in charge of coming back? [[10:47:39]] For 224 Dear colleagues, calm down. I think we did the right thing to you. I didn't want to get involved in the vote, and now I'm saying my opinion. Now the Cabinet of Ministers, which is formed by the coalition, has to do so. And you and I will share with him the responsibility for how the land of state property is regulated. At the same time, the authors suggested that public administrations do so on the spot. Who are subordinated to state administrations in places? Do they follow the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers or other instructions? And I think we did the right thing to you. I think that the agency should prepare for the Cabinet of Ministers to look at the issue of district councils and administrations in one way or another, and we're going to look at it and we're going to look at it. The Supreme Council is considering, not to mention the Cabinet of Ministers, where it is much easier and quicker to resolve these issues. I think the villagers have lost absolutely nothing. They've lost officials in the fields. That's a fact. We need to put into order the day-to-day draft of the Lending Regulation, registration number 3480. [[the extension of the Wattutinian combination of fireworks.]] Integrating into the agenda. Please vote. [[10:49:22]] For-16 And the author suggests that we move it for reconciliation. That's why it's not included. Rereading the first reading. Ukraine's Pay for Work Bill, bill number 2655d. [[on the determination of the hourly minimum wage]] [[completed]] Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works of Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on Re-reading the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work has revised the bill and is submitting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for review on a re-first reading. The draft law provides for the definition of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act and the Ukrainian Labour Code as the Basic Principles for the establishment of a minimum hourly wage as a guarantee for employees who work with an hourly system of pay. The minimum wage is to be determined at the same time as monthly and per hour, taking into account the subsistence minimum of the average wage, employment and other economic conditions. The bill lays down the conditions for determining the hourly minimum wage. The bill also provides for the addition of existing legislation to new standards that strengthen the social protection of workers, namely, article 85 of the Ukrainian Labour Code is proposed to supplement the standard for non-enhanced labour standards with a view to increasing the monthly and hourly minimum wage. That is to say, it is guaranteed to maintain the existing intensity of work, article 106 of the Labour Code is proposed to supplement the payment standard as a overtime of all hours worked by an employee over the statutory length of working hours per week, when the employee is not set to work daily. This rule will help to ensure social protection for people working under a system of custom employment contracts – work with a break, with different working hours, and so on, who are now being promoted to the labour market. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as a result of the first reading, the draft law of Ukraine amending the Code of Laws on Ukraine's Work and the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work can be taken as a basis. The proposed changes also come from the ratified Supreme Council of the International Labour Organization Convention 131. The bill is supported by the social partners of the State, the organizations of trade unions and employers. The Committee believes that the bill is designed to improve the order and criteria for determining minimum wage and to ensure that the minimum hourly wage is implemented as a State guarantee. In doing so, the order for setting and viewing the minimum wage is generally maintained. I want to remind you once again that during the election campaign, we promised to introduce a new state guarantee and a new social standard -- the hourly pay. As for the fears and warnings that occurred during the first review of the bill regarding the possible non-employment of workers throughout the working day and on this basis the reduction of actual wages, we think they are somewhat exaggerated, because both collective agreements and other standards can make this impossible. There are, of course, the observations that touch both the structure of this bill and the stylistic observations made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They are perfectly fair, but they will need to be worked on, and they will have to be included in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u46	Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich. Any questions? Sign up. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u47	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. The respected Ivan Mihajlovich, indeed, is one of the sickest of today's pension systems and a number of social benefits. That the form of pay is one of the most painful issues that have not been resolved to date, in fact, in the world. Why is the pay system closed to date in many of the world States, why are salaries paid under contracts closed? Because it is not easy to ensure social justice. There is no doubt that we need to improve the form of remuneration. The question is only one: how do we achieve two stages: the first is not to harm low-paid categories of people, this is the first moment, and the second moment, how do we not create a system in which we do not create a system of wage debt, that is to say, an hour or two, as if we did not create a system in which a person would not be able to guarantee him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u48	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Of course, these fears, to some extent justified, I spoke about them in my report. But we're in the process of preparing for second reading just on these sides of the bill, which may not be working enough, and we'll pay special attention. Because in principle there is a collective agreement that we have to guarantee a certain salary for the employee. Secondly, there is a minimum wage that is guaranteed. There's a living minimum for working people, and so on, these standards continue to work. So there are mechanisms that can be used to prevent this from happening. I mean, I don't want your fears and our fears to come true with you. I think that the Regulatory Policy Committee will make specific wishes and suggestions for the second reading that we will take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u49	Ivan Mikolaiovich, you're not far from there, Sergey Anatoliovich. Prove it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u50	I'll talk to him in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u51	Have a seat, please. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Who wants to speak? Yes, please, Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Get Harry ready. Samilik? Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u52	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I want to say that the hourly pay is a software installation for the Communist Party of Ukraine. And so, of course, we will support this bill. We think it's a step forward. And really, we're hourly wages, we're going from minimum wage to minimum wage, and that's, of course, much more, well, not much, but more than minimum wage. And what's more, we have to consider with you that the government of national unity for the support of our National Unity Coalition is constantly working to increase the living minimum. So you and I will have every opportunity to keep improving the well - being of our people and especially those who work today, especially young people. But I also want to say to the drafters of the bill that, if not our comments but our good wishes, we still have to take them into account. First of all, how do we protect a worker? Because when I adopt this law, I can even imagine what's going to happen, especially in the private sector, what employers are going to do. I can imagine how they will continue to treat a young woman, a young mother who chooses to give birth to a child and goes on a specific vacation. Today, we have isolated and very common cases where this very category of people is cut short so as not to spend money on them. So this is really a warning that we have to make not only in this law, but also in the law that provides for the responsibility of employers for and for the protection of our workers. And the second question. We still have to solve the issue in this law, and in the ones we discussed yesterday, we have to do everything we can to get our wages out of the shadows, because this is the future pension, because this is the future of every family, because this is the future of our young people. Now, we're already working on these issues, the Anti-crisis Coalition, oh, sorry, national unity, and unfortunately, for today, those who are missing, they've separated themselves from the people of Ukraine. Shame on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u53	Hara Vasil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have considered several bills on hourly pay in the past. And our committee on social policy and work has categorically opposed, and thank God, the sessional room has supported us in this. What were we afraid of in the past? At least two dangers. First. It was proposed that the hourly payment should be linked to the minimum wage rather than to the minimum wage. Second, attempts to extend the hourly payment to those who work on a permanent contract of employment in enterprises, organizations, institutions. The current project, which has been provided by the Cabinet of Ministers, is addressing these two dangers. And I believe that we must be supportive for many reasons. And the main reason is that we talk a lot about the development of medium and small businesses and we do very little legislatively. This is especially true of small businesses when people do not understand what their wages are. They hire them for an hour, for two hours, for unloading, for guarding, for carrying some heavy loads, for other types of work. And no one knows how much they're getting that salary. Therefore, the adoption of the bill has no right to define the bottom plan below which no employer, especially in small and medium-sized businesses, has the right to pay less. And the second. In preparing for the second reading, we must set up a screen so that this does not become a common practice for all employees working in enterprises, organizations, institutions. Obviously, employers will have a good case, in order to pay less, it will be suggested that we have a code of labour laws, no more than an eight-hour working day and no more than forty-six hours a week. So there's a limit up there, and there's no limit at the bottom. And of course, it will be tempting to try to use this rule to say, "I don't need you for eight hours, I need four hours. I'll pay you in four hours." I think we will introduce such restrictions on second reading into this law so that such a rule cannot be freely used by employers. That is why our committee has supported this very bill. This will be progress towards the remuneration of employees, I repeat, especially in small and medium-sized businesses, will raise them, say, the standard of living by raising wages and setting a minimum and will take the first step to make us, well, so prestigious, work in small and medium-sized businesses. The faction of the Party of the Regions also decided to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u55	Thank you. I owe it to Paklusenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, it is difficult to overestimate the role and importance of this law. We all understand that the main objective of this law and the objective is to do better for our constituents. But before we set that goal, we must enter the field and understand what is happening. The first question that we should ask ourselves in the discussion of this issue. Is there unemployment in the country today? The answer is clear: yes, especially in rural areas, in district centres. But when it comes to the district center, let alone Kiev, open any newspaper, and you'll see, they're needed, they're needed. You go and see: all buildings in all shops are required, required and required. At the same time, note that they grow like the mushrooms of the Employment Fund. I can't understand if there is this fund, if there are high-paying officials, why newspapers are required. Because I think there's a little bit of evil here. We want to resolve the relationship between the employer and the employee, it's all right. But there is a state between them. It is therefore necessary to start from the weakest point of view in this problem, the State. You have to stop pretending there's no problem. We must make taxes, first, real and binding for all. The faction will support this law, and we ask that it be finalized in the light of comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u57	Thank you. Hello, Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u58	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. You know, I'd like to pay attention to one point that we never have in this room. We're talking at this time about raising wages: average, minimum and more. And by raising it that way, because we need to, we're doing more harm than good. I just want to tell you, anywhere in the world, wages don't go up just because someone has something bad. Productivity can first be determined whether it can be raised or not. In keeping with this law, understanding its need, I would also like to say that on second reading, it is necessary to reconcile what productivity of work is, and how can we lift it up, whether on an hourly basis or at a minimum, depending on the productivity of the work. What do we do when we don't count it? The government does not think about increasing productivity, a government apparatus. You see, in our country alone, for importing new equipment, new technologies are tax-free. In the whole world, when new technology comes in, we can't bring it in, new technology, nobody's interested, because Parliament's going to make a decision to raise wages. Then we come to the Vladimir market or to Bessarabka, and we see that this raise in wages has already been eaten by inflation and everything else. Thus, such a concept of productivity must be incorporated into legislation, leading to respect for science, respect for new technology, and new technology. And maybe at the end of the day, our scientist, our engineer, everyone will realize that he's solving the issue of salary rather than wanting to raise or humiliate someone. Then there will be really productivity in the work. Now I'm collecting materials from Western countries and Ukraine, from a human product, and I'm going to say it's going to be very hard to compare, and I'm going to definitely pick out and tell you how much we're going to be paying back if we take the product. This is what I ask you to consider, and the law itself is what I consider necessary in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u59	Thank you. The discussion is over, it has shown that we have dealt with a really difficult question and not such a simplistic approach as it seems to be. They were talking about the centers of employment. As practice has shown, the centers of employment go because aid from the state is higher than the wages they receive. And they're not happy to work, and they're going to benefit from the state -- the pension -- it's also a peri-kiss. Similarly, not to be that we, by setting up the hourly work or forcing it to be installed, would not create what it would go into the shadow that those who would hire would gladly hire and pay, but in envelopes, and would agree with those who had been hired. I mean, really, you're right, in preparing for the second reading, you have to do pretty scrupulously everything so that we don't make any mistakes, especially, a strategic mistake in this one -- one of the most important, if not the most important performance of the state. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the Act amending the Labour Code and the Act on Paying for Work on the Timetable Minimum Wage. [[Registration number 2655-d]] Please vote. [[11:10:45]] For the 250. Adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act is under consideration. [[concerning the approval of the text of the oath]] Also rereading the first reading. Deputy Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement of the Sands. You don't? Who is from this committee? None. There is a proposal for a committee: to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 20 March on the return to the Ukraine Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act and to withdraw the bill from the review. I am putting this motion to the vote: on the removal of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, registration number 2240. [[11:11:51]] For 247 Decision taken. Taken off the record. We were about to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on imports and circulation of horse alcohol, winemaking and the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening and hops, registration number 3310. But the authors ask that his consideration be postponed. Please vote on the transfer of the matter. [[11:12:38]] For the 250. Catherine Semenovna, better let the French make cognacs on our liquor. 250's been transferred. The point is that the authors are asking to settle issues with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the respective Customs Council and so on. We'll give them that opportunity. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration, registration number 3062. [[on the settlement of property and co-ownership issues]] Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich reports. I just did. Clearly, it was felt that the previous law had been rejected. Yes, while Melniczuk is coming, would you please have Savosin? Please, from the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Gennady Anatoliyovich Savosin, please, and then the drafter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u60	Honourable National Deputies, Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, discussed Bill 3062 on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melnichuk, at its meeting on 21 March 2007. [[on the settlement of property issues, co-ownership]] The bill proposes to improve the formalization of property rights of owners and co-owners, the creation of preconditions for the establishment and taxation of cross-registration registers of immovable property. To this end, the bill provides for substantial changes and additions to the Ukrainian legislation on privatization of the State Housing Fund. The privatisation period is proposed to be extended until December 31, 2008, to the unification of coowners of the apartment building, to the Civil Code and to the Ukrainian Family Code. According to most committee members, the adoption of bill 3062 can contribute to the reform of the housing and utility sector. The committee supports the need to change the name of the law to: on privatization of state and municipal property, since at present the majority of housing is not in state property but in municipal property. At the same time, there are valid and substantive observations made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, who believes that such an amendment of Law 3062 may not improve but make it difficult to regulate ownership and co-ownership. Therefore, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that its subject be reintroduced into the legislative initiative for further development, taking into account the comments made. The essence of these proposals and the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office is the following: the local self-government body cannot be a tenant of state housing, as proposed by the project, because according to the Civil Code, the lessors are the owner of the lease. The definition of the cost of renting housing is not the subject of this law, which according to its name should govern only the privatization of the housing fund. Citizens have to choose for themselves what share they share. partial or shared property to privatize the housing they live in. The transition from privatization of an apartment or other suitable housing to privatization of particles also seems very controversial. This approach to privatization of housing, when part of the apartments are privatized and some remain in state or municipal property, will only complicate the privatisation process and the realisation of property rights in the future. Nor is it supported by the proposal to introduce, in fact, forced privatization of juvenile particles on their behalf by appropriate guardianship and care bodies and subsequent compensation for the cost of producing appropriate documents at the expense of the parents, as this makes it impossible for these particles to be voluntarily privatized for the benefit of the children themselves by the parents. [[caregivers, caregivers]] Taking responsibility for property damage that is common property or property of other members of the union is not in all cases compatible with the Civil Code. Especially controversial is the proposal for a project to anchor at the legislative level of allocation in common ownership of an ideal, abstract and real particle. Such a division can greatly complicate the implementation of property rights and lead to disputes between owners, especially in cases where the ideal share of property rights does not match the reality. A note was also made regarding the proposed changes to the Ukrainian Family Codex. The proposals and comments to this project have not been received from the authorities, and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions considers the bill to be associative and as requiring further development. The Committee, first of all, out of the interests of the housing sector, decided by a majority: to propose to the Supreme Council the adoption of bill 3062 on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine, the resolution of property issues and co-ownership as a result of its first reading on the basis of the following revisions to the second reading. Please put to the vote and make a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The author appeared. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u62	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Thank you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, for giving me the opportunity to speak. I'd like to report to you, your honorary colleagues and honourable radio listeners, that the bill that I've submitted will determine, let's say, the question of ownership and co-ownership is answered. World experience has shown that the level of development of the country depends not least on the level of formalization of the title system. It is to raise this level in Ukraine and the legislative changes I have proposed. Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund. The legislative norms recommended are aimed at optimizing, privatizing the housing fund or, for example, closing it by 31 December 2008 by ensuring that citizens can exercise their right to privatization regardless of the will of other citizens. Or it is the provision of the real equality of property status of all forms of property, including state property, provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. The bill is also recommended. In order, for example, to have a mutual, common right and, through their associations, to influence the situation with regard to multistory buildings. What they mean is changes to the Civil Code of Ukraine. It introduces rules that allow hopeless disputes between owners of property, especially immovable property, to be settled on the basis of justice and respect for the rights of each coowner. The terms “ideal” and “real” are introduced, “formal title”, and all of this goes to the execution of the Constitutional Court decision of March 2, 2004. There's a concept of equal, different levels of co-ownership that's not in Ukrainian law. So there weren't, let's say, these terms. Changes to the Ukrainian Family Codex This is the liquidation of a civil marriage institution, a legal regime for the common property acquired by a woman and a man living together but not married to each other, in view of the fact that it is impossible to establish the reality of both the individual and the economic relationship between a woman and a man. Prognosis of the socio-economic and other consequences of the adoption of the bill. This is, firstly, an acceleration in the pace of privatization of state housing with a view to its final completion. Second, the formalization of title titles will allow you to speed up the real estate, simplify the lending and mortgage process, and increase the property insurance market. Thirdly, the substantial dissuasion of courts, prosecutors' offices and internal affairs, in which it is estimated that between one fourth and one third of cases and complaints concern exactly hopeless disputes of co-owners. And fourth, the reduction in the criminalization of the secondary real estate market. Speaking up, the national deputy Savosin actually made a note and I want to tell you that there were discussions on the committee about an hour and a half ago. I understand that the bill, it's unforgivable, but I agree that it needs to be worked out, and in order for it to be worked out, I hope for a coalition, because on the other hand, no one will be working on it, and we need to deal with it with you. So I urge you, fellow Members, to make proposals for the second reading so that we can adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u63	Thank you. Wait, does anyone want to ask you a question? Any questions? Sign up. I'll give you a chance to talk. He wanted to ask, I don't know, he was able to sign up, please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u64	Well, first of all, I want to thank you. You've really been doing a lot of serious work in this gathering, and I know how much you have on this issue, and people in Ukraine already know you as an objective person. Indeed, there is a problem. You have to keep talking about what happens when you become owners, you're responsible. And you can't let an officer in there, you can't let an official in there. [[Professional staff, let them deal with the problems]] I have a problem in my district, too, when, with the help of the clerks in the building, they started setting up a new house, and for everything else, they paid for it in utility. What kind of community property is that?Oh, my God! Twenty people live there, twenty apartments. They're owners. Therefore, these problematic issues, whether we like them or not, exist and need to be resolved in the legislative field.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u65	Thank you. Well, as far as I can see, the people's MPs who are present and the committee members have come to my consideration of the bill, it gives me the right to say, let's say, that the way of submission and the way of solving these issues is the right one. I have no doubt that much work is needed. And that's why I asked the National Deputies from the National Unity Coalition to take an active part in the drafting of the bill. But I would still like us to vote on the basic bill. And that's what I'm talking to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u66	Yeah, well, of course it's not Mikhail Vasilovich's complaints, I get it, they're coming. And complaints come from people who do not solve the same question and thank Mikhail Vasilovich for trying to resolve it. Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u67	Thank you. Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for explaining the concept of the bill to us because our previous high-level reporter may have narrowed down the concept of the bill a little bit, and it was a little bit unclear. We now understand that we need to make changes to a number of bills that really settle these issues. Mikhail Vasilovich, but the bill needs to be too complicated, because it applies to every person, every person's fate in this bill. And that's why we'd still have to get the law to be redrafted into a profile committee, rework it. And then we will go out with you and perhaps even accept it in the first reading and in general accept it. And once again, the law is necessary, the law is necessary. But in view of the fact that he is covering so many bills, we should work more closely on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u68	I agree with you, of course, that the bill is very complicated. But I'm still talking to my colleagues at the Communist Party faction, supporting and accepting it as a basis, and working on it is definitely necessary, because it's really complicated. At least once again, I want to repeat that at the committee meeting he was looking at, well, the tension was great. It was already so that, in my opinion, we would have to go, really, from the pre-work committee. But still, since the committee has supported and recommends accepting it as a basis, I would like to say once again that we really need to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u69	The sand of John.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Mikhailo Vasilovich, you don't think you need to deal with this or simplify another point when it comes to property. For example, if a man and a woman, one of them was registered, as was the case before, and the other is not, one of them dies, and no one else is prescribed. If that happens, it turns out that another member of this family or son, or someone else who is forced to buy the same in the state, has a certain amount. This too needs to be considered. And one more thing. Don't you think our colleagues from the opposition factions, who are constantly criticizing that we're not doing anything on the spot, aren't there? Instead of advocating people’s interests, they block our work at the local level, and the quality of stupidity is spoken there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u71	Ivan Vasilovich, I agree with you and with your comments and suggestions, so I urge you to take a second reading to work together on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-25-m0.u72	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, sit down. I think there was a discussion. Nobody insists? Then let's support Mikhail Vasilovich. Let us accept it in the first reading. In fact, each of you points out that a fairly serious bill is a lot of comments, but let's believe the author and the profile committee will work it out for the second reading. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on property and co-ownership, Bill No. 3062, author of which is Mikhailo Melniczuk. Please be supportive. [[11:29:54]] For-72 Not enough arguments. Then I'm proposing to a profile committee to send the draft to the author for further work. Please vote. [[11:30:22]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! You and I have fulfilled the order of the day that we planned for today. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Request to work on committees and factions. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
