ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Yeah, I can see it's almost ready. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[10:02:04]] A total of 257 national deputies were registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Natalia Juryovna Královska, whom we welcome and ask to come to the hall, and welcome to her presence. Allow me to announce requests from members of the people, such as: MIKOLI JAKOVIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the housing issue of the participant in the elimination of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES in 1986, the first category, the rank of "For Courage" in the third stage of Anatoly Besselovsky. Eugene LAPINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the dissatisfaction with the consideration of parliamentary appeals by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the transformation of the Military Institute of Missile Forces and Artillery into the Department of Military Training of the Military Forces and artillery of the Suma State University. Group of deputies to the first Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, to finance the construction and repair work of Montenegro's Law College. [[COMAR, CORSACOV, ANDROS, and others Total 8 deputies]] YURIA MIROSCHNIZENKA to the Head of the Chernigiv District State Administration on the emergency situation of the area adjacent to the building of the citizen, Olena Dergac. PACESUCA’S branch to the head of the House of Accounts of Ukraine to conduct a review of the use of the budget allocated for the preservation of the historic construction of cities, historical and cultural heritage, the organization of historic settlements in Ukraine, and social development in the city of Chigirin in 2006. Please write down who would like to participate in the announcements, the proposals. First, it's a faction entry. Yes, please, who else would like to participate personally, please. Yeah, 30 minutes. Please, the Barranian Socialist faction. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. We are witnessing for the first time in years of independence a judicial branch of power is trying to choose its independence. The discreditation of the courts began with the Registry of the President, the President himself from the highest court, the Constitutional Court. The impact was at the very heart of the judicial branch of authority. And that's not an accident, because after trying to unconstitutionally destroy the legislative branch of power -- the Supreme Council -- the courts were at stake, both in constitutional and in general jurisdiction. The Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutionality of the President's decrees on the release and appointment of the heads of courts and their deputies is logical because we have determined that all branches of power are independent. What can be the independence of the court when another branch of authority, the executive, or president, appoints the heads of the courts and their deputies? It's like tomorrow any court will appoint the President of the Secretary of the President and his deputies. Whatever the opposition to the Constitutional Court has to say about its inadequacy, the fact is that the Constitutional Court is beginning to establish an independent judiciary. John Dombrowski's resignation from the post of head of the Constitutional Court was projected, for the moral, psychological, and other tortures that took place at his address by the Secretary of the President and the opposition were quite difficult. Because being present when the President issues unconstitutional, illegal orders regarding the early release of Constitutional Court judges, the heads of the judges of general jurisdiction and, without having the opportunity, perhaps more loyally, it was not sufficient to protect their colleagues against the aberration of their colleagues at the Constitutional Court of all judges of Ukraine. While protesting lawlessness, Mr. Dobrovsky resigns. If the Constitutional Court of the President were not to be slandered by the Constitutional Court in order not to speak about its legitimacy, but by uninvolved legal experts, all who can and want to read the Constitution and laws of Ukraine are well aware that all decisions of the Constitutional Court are legitimate and binding on all subjects and citizens of Ukraine, whether you like it or not. I welcome the work of the working group on electoral law. We need these groups more in different directions of legislative activity. At the meeting of these groups, however, it is not possible to discuss the Supreme Council’s early elections until the Constitutional Court has rendered its decision. And one more thing. We constantly hear calls from the opposition: passing laws with 2 hour packets. For this reason, I propose to amend the Supreme Council's regulations on the adoption of laws, not with bags, but in 30 minutes. And once this rapid stage is achieved, the laws can be passed in one minute. For the record, the beetle is a huge bag, 30 to 40 times larger than the usual bag used to cover the hop cones. Imagine how many laws can be laid in such a bag and how high they will be when voted in one minute. And finally, about scarecrows, our society has been raised as a child to be intimidated. Children are intimidated by baboons, wolves, evil spirits. When boys grow up, especially when they run without pants in the village, they are afraid that they may be cut off and so forth. And we are the people's deputies of Ukraine and ours, our coalition government is intimidated by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. At the same time, opposition leaders do so. Perhaps Mr. Kirilenko and his associates have already privatized this structure. Because we don't feel like we're out of politics today. Moreover, the PNB is only an advisory body. And second of all, in my opinion, in peacetime, this structure looks very questionable at all. We need to make appropriate changes to the laws that provide for the functioning of the National Security and Defence Council only when the country, God forbid, in a state of war, and in peacetime, all matters of our social life must be decided by the legislative, executive and judicial independent branches of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction. Prepare from the faction of the Welding regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of the faction of the Communists of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to welcome and thank the Constitutional Court as a whole, every judge of the Constitutional Court in particular for the courageous, legal, stately position they have taken in the artificial, deliberate, ear-attended political crisis created in Ukraine. You know, I've had the privilege of taking part in the meetings of the Constitutional Court for a few days, when the walls of the Constitutional Court had, as it were, a public part of the President's ruling on the late termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I personally became convinced that all the epithets that I used in relation to the Constitutional Court as a whole and every judge of the Constitutional Court in particular, they fully correspond to what I was able to observe. What is particularly important is that this position, once again, is that the courageous, legal, and governmental position is occupied when it is. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine is subjected to pressure, blackmail, which is arranged in relation to the judges of the Constitutional Court by representatives, first, the Secretariat of the President and his immediate surroundings. This is in the condition that the highest official of Ukraine, who is the President, from the guarantor of the Constitution, has become the main violator of the Constitution. This is happening under double standards and double morals as demonstrated by the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind the citizens of Ukraine who obviously remember this position when the President of Ukraine, while in European structures, declared to the world that it is legal, I stress, the Constitutional Court's legal decision, and every branch of power, every subject of the negotiating process, every subject of political life in Ukraine must submit to this decision, no matter how he reacts to this decision. On the other hand, on returning to Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the person who gave these guarantees to European structures, I stress, the highest official in Ukraine, is beginning the process of destroying the Constitutional Court. He's firing one judge of the Constitutional Court, he's firing another judge of the Constitutional Court, he's firing a third Constitutional Court. You know, honourable colleagues, the so - called united opposition and the president’s environment, often accuses the National Unity Coalition, the Supreme Council of unconstructive actions. I'd like to say that. That if we really practiced this philosophy, we could act on the same principle as the President of Ukraine. That is, with a draft decision by one of the national deputies to recall another part of the judges of the Constitutional Court, we could, in fact, complete the process of destruction, destruction of the Constitutional Court. Happily, we have failed to do so. And this has once and for all demonstrated a truly stately position, a genuine, normal legislative position of Parliament and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am absolutely convinced of this, and in this our hope, in this hope of the citizens of our society, that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will soon, as the Phoenix from the ashes will rise up and adopt the legal one, I emphasize, the really legal one, not the political solution to the situation that is in the country today. I am absolutely convinced that the judges of the Constitutional Court will have both the courage and the profession and the civic responsibility of our society for making this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Igor Zvaric, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues and invited! I also have to contact you about a situation that has arisen with constitutional judges in Ukraine. In addition to the fact that the President of Ukraine issued decrees of 30 April, 1 and 10 May of this year concerning the release of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Valeria Pschenicka, Susanna Stanik, and Vladimir Yvashchenka in connection with the formulation of a kind of breach of oath, we continue to overestimate the obvious fact of such violation by other judges of this constitutional body. I recall that, following the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of the submission of 53 people's deputies on the conformity of the President's Constitution with the President's decree “To terminate the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” from 2 April of this year, No.264, five judges of the Constitutional Court: Dmitry Lelak, Vladimir Campo, Peter Steczek, Viktor Shishkin and Jaroslava Macujak made a political statement, making their own statements and assessments before the beginning of the case. In doing so, the Committee on Legal Policy noted that when they signed the application, they no longer applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but, as decreed, to the Ukrainian National Deputies, which in itself showed. And on this point, I would like to stress by saying, at the same time, that this will also be taken into account by the Higher Council of Justice, to which the Committee on Legal Policy addressed itself at the beginning of May with a letter number 06-1.9-781. On May 8, this year, we have issued draft decrees for the termination of the terms of office of these judges of the Constitutional Court registration number 3517 and for the dismissal of their Speaker Peter Steczek, who is appointed under the quota of the Supreme Council. On 11 May, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the above draft rulings at its meeting, where it was confirmed that the actions of the five judges contained signs of violations of the oath by the Constitutional Court judge in part of his honest and conscientious discharge of his high duties, giving rise to reasonable doubts about their objectivity, impartiality and independence, which led to violations of articles 17 and 18 of the Constitutional Court Act and articles 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. We took into account that the Constitutional Court is aware of the procedure we have initiated to deal with this issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was also taken into account his own response to this fact, which was not to be examined in accordance with paragraph 69 of the Constitutional Court's Rules and to decide whether or not to be released, including the President's previous Order of Judges, but to a new statement adopted at the Constitutional Court meeting, which he limited himself to his concern. We are equally concerned by the failure of the judges themselves to respond properly to the hardships of the judicial corps by calling for their full - time assembly. Once again, article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine contains a comprehensive list of reasons for the dismissal of a judge. Paragraph five of Part Five of this article provides that he is to be released from office for violating a judge’s oath. The second part of article 23 and the fourth, fifth, of the first article of article 23 of the Law on the Constitutional Court provides that it is the Supreme Council that decides to terminate the powers of the Constitutional Court judge in the event of a breach of an oath. And the fact that the Constitutional Court ignores the requirements of its own rules cannot be an obstacle. Therefore, I believe that there are now all the necessary prerequisites and signs for the Supreme Council to consider the issue of the judges mentioned and, in line with paragraph 26 of the first article 85, paragraph five of the fifth article 126, and article 149 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to decide on the termination of the powers of judges Volodymira Campo, Dmitri Lelak, Viktor Shishkin, Jaroslava Macuchak, and Peter Steczak in connection with their violation of the oath of judges. In addition, the Supreme Council is to release the judge of the Constitutional Court of Stitch from office and to appoint another person in his place. So we need to be determined without delay. I have everything, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u7	And thank you for your information on the High Council's mandate. Ivan Bondarchuk. Prepare Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio and television viewers, Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnitzkin. In view of the efforts of some media that are praised for their honesty and objectivity, discredit the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, which seems to be initiating changes in discrimination in relation to pregnant women and women who have children. Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work adopted a special statement at its meeting. It will be transmitted to the media. Today, to put an end to political speculation and unnecessary speculation about the problem, I will read the text of the corresponding articles of the draft Ukrainian Labour Code as prepared for the second reading. For those of you who are not on the subject, I would like to remind you that the draft Ukrainian Labour Code had begun to be developed in the past, but then adopted in the first reading, then some women's rights advocates voted in favour of an option that had indeed provided for the possibility of releasing women who were pregnant or who had children, but in the process of working, this was changed. The Committee of the Supreme Council has already done much work on the preparation of a code that will replace more than 10 laws governing labour relations with second reading. I hope that during this session the Labour Code of Ukraine will be adopted as a whole. Now, specifically according to the articles in the paper, how they are prepared for reading. Article 118 is a ban on the release of pregnant women, women who have children under the age of 3 and single mothers. First. It's forbidden to release pregnant women and women who have children under the age of 3 or a disabled child at the initiative of the employer, except in cases where the legal person of the employer has been eliminated, the physical person has ceased to perform the duties of the employer. The other one. It's forbidden to release single mothers who have children under the age of 15 except for similar cases. Third. In the cases of the release mentioned in parts 1 and 2 of this article, women are paid the amount of relief provided for in the first article of this Code, but no less than three months ’ average wage. Article 286 “Guarantees upon admission to work of pregnant women and women who have children”. It's forbidden for women to refuse employment and to reduce their wages for reasons related to pregnancy or the presence of children under 3 years of age.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u9	Thank you. In short, dear, dear women! Be childbearing, and do not be anxious, for the ministers do not change laws and write laws, but are adopted by the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council will not allow such changes. Don't let it happen. Please, Herman and her will pass the word Falco, six minutes, to prepare Dutch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I intended to come to this rostrum to welcome first Ukraine and Ukrainians to the Day of Europe, which is celebrated today in all of Ukraine. But since words were spoken here at the press address, since we are continuing to teach the press from the Supreme Council’s rostrum how it should write, I will also allow myself a few replicas on this subject. In the 1990s, the Soviet Union came up with such a term, such a nephrophilism as “straight. ” There is no translation of that word in English.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u11	Thank you. But the word “adventure” is not as delicious as the word “screwless. ” The Constitutional Court and the freedom of the press have placed the authorities on guard. The question now is whether the Ukrainian authorities are so “inexhaustible” that they destroy the Constitutional Court and destroy the freedom of the press. As for the first, I have doubts about the second, I have no doubts. The press in Ukraine is so free and independent that no “screw”, no “irreprehensible” authorities will be able to destroy it. We say here, we can complain that sometimes the press may not write as we would like, but there is an answer to that. First, the press is a mirror and should we complain about the mirror? And second, mirrors are also curved, especially when society is crooked. Therefore, in order not to have “curvy mirrors” in society, it is necessary to correct society itself and create independent journalists, indeed independent journalists, the conditions for their independence rather than complain that they are sometimes forced to order “money bags”. I wanted to pay attention to a moment that we haven't paid attention to yet. After the first and second decree, which we were accepted to consider to be nonexistent, the Upper House of the Ukrainian Parliament, which is what I would like to call journalists who, from the first and second decrees, have always stayed with us, proved that we are, that we exist. Because we were told that we were gone, and we appeared on TV screens. We were told that the Supreme Council did not exist, and the journalists took comments and covered the activities of the Supreme Council. It may not always be what we want, but we should get used to freedom and what the journalist says as he thinks it is necessary and we should not instruct him. So today I would like to beat the other room, the top salary of the Ukrainian Parliament for courage, and the fact that there are many objective journalists in its beds. I would like to return to the subject for which I have come to this rostrum. The Party of the Regions welcomes all citizens with the traditional celebration of Europe Day in Ukraine. For today’s Europe, this has become a festival that brings all European nations closer together. For the Ukrainians, the Day of Europe is another opportunity to remind everyone and to tell the whole world that we are a European nation. Ukraine has long declared its return to the European family. Ukraine's goal is ambitious European integration, and in this respect we rely on the targeted support of our European colleagues. The hard work of Ukrainian high - ranking workers, a constant constructive dialogue, has finally produced the first practical results. Ukraine is at the threshold of making the signing geopolitical decisions of the “nine” membership in the WTO to make a reinforced agreement with the European Union. And I believe that approval here in the Supreme Council of Laws, which we still need to approve in view of the fact that the hundreds of new demands for Ukraine can be another step towards compromising the entire House of our Parliament. European integration is, above all, the issue of the Ukrainians themselves, the question of our internal compliance with high European standards of living. Ukraine is constantly testing the standards and requirements of life in the European house, the process of deep reforms, the implementation of long-term plans for the development of the state, the economic recovery and the improvement of the welfare of our citizens, these ambitious salaries and priorities are those that the Ukrainian authorities have put before them, and I want to stress, without exception, all the Ukrainian authorities. Our common understanding of all branches of this authority and our ability to unite to achieve national goals depends on our future. And so I believe, I believe in our union, I believe in compromise, and I believe that today the journalists asked me whether there would be a strong option today, whether today there would be any radical decisions by the Security Council, I believe that we will be united by all, all branches of government, the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, and this entire Parliament our joint desire to go to the European house.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u12	Thank you. And for the performance, and for a good idea, we don't have to hold an election, we can already create an upper room, because some people want to divide Parliament into two chambers. We'll assume we have the upper chamber. Yes, please, Boris Daych and he's handing over his right to stand by for six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u13	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dutch, faction of the Regions, Crimea. Today, 63 years have passed since the echelons to the East without trial and investigation, without the benefits of more than 200,000 Crimean Tatars, Armenians, Bulgarians, Greeks, Germans and other nationalities have been evicted from the Crimea, many have not reached the point of reference, many have remained there forever. On 26 March 1993, the Supreme Council of Crimea established the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Deportation on 18 May 1993. That date was defined not only as a memory of the tragic, dramatic pages of our very recent history, but also as a reminder to all mankind of the consequences of the totalitarian regime. Now this day and the fates of these people remind us that from our own history we must always make the right conclusions at all stages of moving forward so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past. As we learn from the lessons learned, we must more than ever understand clearly what disregard for the Constitution, the lack of respect for the laws and human rights that exist in the country can lead to. The date is not only of general significance but also of significance to the State. In the past 17 years, since the start of the return of the deported peoples, the independent Ukraine has unfortunately remained alone with the problem of equipping the deported, creating conditions for their successful integration into Ukrainian society. Despite this, however, the State has done much to build them up, build mutual trust and respect for all peoples living in the Multinational Crimea, and harmonise inter-ethnic relations. The promise of high officials to identify priority issues for returnees at the State level is often only a slogan. These problems could have been solved if they had been addressed by a single public, generalized Crimea programme. Because one part of the Crimean does not understand, and often does not make frequent promises to resolve all matters exclusively for the deported. They, in turn, remain unhappy because they have failed to keep their promises. More than 260,000 returnees are now needed for the Crimea, and 2.6 billion bracelets are still needed. But we must all be well aware that, even in a stable situation in the country, the installation programme will not take another year. It is therefore important to see the fate of each individual who does not need millions of bracelets behind the capital investment figures. One of them was written in the Facts newspaper on 15 May of this year by Crimean journalist Elena Azaryan. A publication entitled “When I was beginning to feel sorry for myself, I immediately felt like a second-class person”. This is a gifted young man, a talented artist of Crimean Tatar nationality. Mustafa Murtasaev's parents are repatriated, a poor family. Mustafa was born without the brushes of his hands and one foot. He's drawing brushes and pencils to the cults of his hands. She conducts personal exhibitions that gather a lot of visitors and at the same time attends the 5th Simferopol High Art School of Samokis. A few years ago, I met him and, knowing this young man as a man of great will and desire to live and create, being a disabled group, Mustafa has been in line for several years to obtain housing and a special car. It is very difficult for him to go to the parents ’ home every day in the village of Welcome from Simferopol. The Party of the Regions is ready to assist in the acquisition of a special vehicle. I invite my colleagues from other factions, especially those who do not go to the conference room, to support us. This will show that it is enough to help people of different nationalities and religions in Ukraine today and now the person who needs and waits for it. And I hope that such an act will be a good example in bringing the country together not only for people who are indifferent but also for all political forces. And the last. When they want to put the country on spaghetti today. I would like to remind those who are trying to break beliefs through their knees, the interests of various political forces representing different regions: The Crimea has gone through such situations on the foll border only because the politicians and peoples of the peninsula lacked the mental and the responsibility to keep our country in this beautiful corner for the sake of all the Crimeans, for the sake of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u14	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u15	I wish to our opponents, as I call upon all the political forces of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u16	Thank you, Boris Davidovich, for carrying out the mission that your colleagues, who are represented in Parliament, would have undertaken, but are not going to work. Yes, dear colleagues, we've run out of time, 30 minutes. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Bill No. 1036 of the Law on Special Defense, a draft of the National Deputy of the School, is under consideration. I can't see the school. Please, from the committee, a member of the Committee on Legislative Protection, Mr. Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u17	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill under discussion has significant flaws: this is, above all, the absence of clear criteria for the exclusion of special means from weapons. As a result of the contents of the first project, both gas bubbles with the gas of irritable action and various weapons, such as a machine gun, can be transferred to active defenses. This may lead to a weakening of control over the circulation of firearms. The project does not define legal status, fundamental rights and duties, competence, authority of a special authorized authority to control the circulation of special defences. This is not in line with the requirements of article 19 of the Constitution, which establishes that public authorities and local authorities, their officials should act only on the basis, within the limits of the authority and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. With regard to the definition of “special means of active defence”, “special means of passive defence”, etc., these definitions, in addition to the signs common to special means of defence, should generally contain the signs necessary to distinguish the specified means among themselves. It would be necessary to determine the requirements for citizens who have shown a desire to obtain special means of active defence. In other cases, the granting of permits to any person who wishes makes no sense. In general, the adoption of this law for the adoption of arms is seen as premature, considering that the adoption of the said project can lead to both the weakening of the countermeasure on the circulation of firearms and the narrowing of citizens' rights to the acquisition of defence equipment, and the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Authority. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on November 2, 2006, approved the decision to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return the draft Ukrainian Law on Special Defence Means, registration number 1036, to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Please support the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u18	Thank you, Vasil Mikhailovich. If you have any questions, please sign in. And I'm going to our upper room. Perhaps you too are in opposition, setting an example because you are leaving the room? Yes, please sign up for any questions you may have. Yeah, no questions. Have a seat, please. Yes, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u19	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft Law on Special Defense Means essentially introduces legal interpretation of special defences into Ukraine's legal field, classifys them by appointment, systematizes and improves the standards that are now in force in dozens of legal acts, in the departmental instructions, etc. In agreement with the need to systematise legal rules on the legal regulation of the circulation of special defences, I note that the expansion of the list of defences, for the possession of which a special permit is required, results in a narrowing of the right of citizens to the necessary defence against dangerous violations, guaranteed by article 55 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which everyone has the right to any non-prohibited means of protecting his rights and freedoms from violations and unlawful violations. I support the committee's opinion: send this bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, Zybenko. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u21	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The problem that is being addressed today in the form of a corresponding bill in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not, in fact, new. I can testify that in the course of several appeals in the Supreme Council there are similar, or similar, bills on the subject. I would like to say on behalf of the Communist faction that we welcome attempts to introduce legal interpretation of the concept of special defences into the legal field. We welcome the attempt to normalize this problem. Indeed, there is some way to expand the list of persons who need the right permission to purchase them at points of commerce. And I really welcome that. But there's something else that I'd like to say: the way it's written in the draft law doesn't convince me that it's going to work in a way that we're trying to make it legal. Indeed, this phenomenon is very and very difficult. You and I are witnessing today how in countries that have, let's say, long-lasting traditions of using special defenses, including weapons, today society is stirred up by conflict on this basis from time to time. In the same United States of America, we've seen a number of situations in the last few days when everything was going into open fire, well, almost non-combat action on the streets of the United States. So I would like to emphasize once again that we welcome attempts to legally regulate all of these procedures, more specifically, to expand the list of persons who, or the list of means that require special permission to purchase them. But at the same time, we have some warnings about the drafting of the Law, which is being submitted and therefore, the faction of the Communists will support the decision to finalize this draft law, because once again I stress that the problem is extremely responsible and we need to be secure from any misunderstanding on this issue, this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u22	Thank you. Yes, please, what's the Ministry's opinion? Deputy Interior Minister Marmazov Vasil Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u23	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs believes that the bill should be thoroughly worked out and I can only cite three blocks of our proposal. The first is that the terms used in the project should be brought into line with the Ukrainian law on licensing certain types of economic activity. Also, the law does not provide for a period of validity for the right to carry special means for natural persons, which in fact excludes the control of their circulation. Adjustments are needed regarding the right to purchase, carry, store and use of special means for foreigners and stateless persons. Well, not considered by the developers yet a number of proposals from the IMF, so we suggest that this bill be thoroughly revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u24	Thank you. MCS feels the same way, I think. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, and I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft law on special defences. Project number 1036. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:45:50]] For -8 Not supported. There was a proposal for a profile committee to refer to the drafter of the bill. Please vote. [[10:46:15]] For 216 Something's loosened up. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[10:46:39]] For 215 The bill has been removed. Yes, the section for re-examination after processing. Registration number 0808, Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act, with Presidential proposals. Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act, which was adopted on 9 January 2007 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a revised edition and was returned by the President of Ukraine on 30 January 2007 for reconsideration with a proposal rejected. On February 22, 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine commissioned the Committee on Science and Education to work on it, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and other subjects of the right to legislative initiative, and to resubmit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee is working on this bill. The working group benefited from the work of the leading experts at the Secretariat of the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Academy of Law, the National Academy of Sciences, the Ukrainian Security Service. And only the representatives of the Presidential Secretariat of Ukraine refused to come to work in this working group. They, all of these experts working in the working group, support the need to adopt this bill. It has been decided by the committee to recommend that you, your honourable colleagues, adopt the law as a whole in a working way. The Committee's arguments are as follows. The amended law takes into account all the specific proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine's comments on the law are conditionally divided into two parts: general and specific. A certain number of comments are correct and taken into account. Others either need consistency between the different directions of legal thought, or the accumulation of some legal experience. We consider it premature to address the two issues that the President is referring to. First of all, this is about establishing criminal responsibility for a violation. Today, there are many human rights restrictions in the Criminal Code. To strengthen the responsibility to work out the practice of law enforcement is too early, for this applies to human life and to break it very easily. Moreover, it is possible for the President of Ukraine himself to make the ratification of Council of Europe Convention 108 on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automated processing of personal data signed by Ukraine in 2005. Secondly, regarding the observations relating to the determination of the legal status of the authorized State authority for the protection of personal data and its place in the system of public authorities. The law proposed to your attention defines the authorization of the authorized State authority for the protection of personal data, article 23, and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to designate such an authorized state authority, article 30. This is in line with the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers in articles 21, 23 and 44. Ukraine’s Constitution defines the content of fundamental human rights, including article 32, guarantees that personal life is intact, including the gathering of information about a person. This right should be specified by laws, setting up technologies for their implementation. Regrettably, there is a widespread practice of brutal interference in personal life, personal data collection, and contempt for their protection. Today, personal data bases on their clients form a wide range of subjects, individuals, and legal entities — businesses, private doctors, notaries, and so forth. The flow of information from these databases is damaging to many people. There are countless cases where a person is harmed, including the worst, when we can lose a person at all. It is necessary to settle this matter promptly by law. Ukraine is now nearly a quarter of a century late, both with the signing of international agreements and with the implementation of relevant international law. Thus, in 2005, a 1981 European Council No. 108 convention on the protection of persons in connection with automated processing of personal data was signed. It has not yet been ratified. It should be noted that Europe has already established a comprehensive system of legislation covering nearly two dozen European conventions, directives, and recommendations. Each country has issued its basic legislative acts, specific laws have been adopted on personal data activities in medical, statistical, state, journalistic, police and other fields. Similar laws have been passed in many countries around the world, including in SND countries, particularly Russia last year. The history of the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Bill currently under consideration begins in 1995. It was legalized as a draft in 2003, and its history of Parliament-President movement has been going on for over a year. By delaying the adoption of a basic personal data protection law, we are wasting time and more and more away from Europe. Every day, the gap increases. Given that the bill is a framework, its implementation requires the development of a series of regulations, relevant standards and regulations, changes to many laws, work will be sufficient for a long period of time, and it should have started yesterday. The bill is particularly important when it comes to deciding whether to hold early elections and to form a register of voters to be protected from unauthorized interference in their personal lives. Please support the committee's proposals and adopt the amended law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It's basically a second reading, because we're talking about a bill that was passed from the President's veto and we've commissioned the committee to work on it. Eight, if I'm not mistaken, suggestions, amendments were made by colleague Zabolotický, all taken into account. Does no one insist that any of the articles or amendments be voted on? Oh, no? Then I'll put you to a vote, please sit down. Then I'm voting on the adoption of a new draft law on protection of personal data in general. Please vote. [[10:54:08]] For-27 Not accepted. The bill is thus rejected. Rereading the first reading. We have two draft laws amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[about ice-skating]] Project of colleague D. Holy 2235 and 2235-1, alternate Cabinet of Ministers. Please, Saint, I can't see, probably on the barricades, though I should be in the hall. Then, please, the government bill, Deputy Minister of Economy Sluzarenko Oksana Alexandrovna, please. Prepare the Europeans from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! At present, regulation of leasing operations is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Master Code, Ukraine’s financial leasing laws, financial services, and government regulation of financial services for corporate income taxation. However, they have different approaches to regulating leasing operations. Therefore, the purpose of Ukraine's draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on leasing is to ensure the only approach to regulating leasing operations and to remedy the practical shortcomings that arise in the application of these legislations. The draft law provides, firstly, for the organization of approaches to lysing operations, the basic requirements for lysing operations are proposed to be defined in the Civil Code and the Financial Leasing Act, excluding in the appropriate order from the Master Code. In particular, article 806 of the Civil Code proposes that the definition of a lysing contract should be clarified, excluding the term not direct or direct lysing, since it is no longer used and the basic requirements for lysing contracts are foreseen. Second, there's a particular question about the lysing. To this end, in the Civil Code, this is article 807-1 and the financial lysis laws of Ukraine, articles 8, 10 and 11, it is proposed to clarify the cases of the transfer of ownership from the lysing manager to the lysing holder at the end of the lysing contract. These questions are not defined at this time. Article 1 of the Financial Leasing Act proposes to define certain forms of leasing: international, pie, reverse. In general, in international practice, these forms are more than thirty. It is intended to give the lysingo holder the right to choose for himself who to approach, the lysing producer, or the seller in the event that the lysing object is detected and repaired on the basis of a separate contract. Article 1 of the Business Taxation Act proposes to exclude the term “returnal lysing” because this law does not define the characteristics of taxation of this form of lysing. Thirdly, to sort the issue of state lysing regulation. It is therefore proposed in article 28 of the Financial Services and Financial Services Act of Ukraine that the right of a specially authorized executive body to regulate financial services markets to register persons who are not financial institutions but who provide separate types of financial services be legally established. The implementation of the bill will result in an increase in the volume of leasing operations and will not result in an increase in public and local budgets. With the statement made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, with a note, we generally consider that it is possible to agree and be prepared to work on the proposals of the subject-matters of the legislative initiative. Please support the bill to be considered in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Are there any questions? I can't see my hand, okay. Thank you. Please sit down, Oksana Alexandrovna. The head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Mr. George Mikolaiovich, please take the committee's opinion on two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u29	The bill was considered at a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council on 16 May this year. And they were considered in the complex, and they were considered in parallel, and they were likened to one another. From the point of view of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption, on first reading, of a bill by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 2235-1. And the second bill, 2235, the authors of which are our colleagues Svetos, Kaluzny and Polakov, are to use it to refine the government. By the way, I, the author of the bill, also concurred with that view and supported and therefore raised the issue on the Committee. What is the conceptual difference between the two bills? The main thing is that Bill 2235, a government, provides for the existence of all the types of leases currently in force, and Bill 2235 provides for the elimination of such leases as operating leases, and leaving only financial leases is the first conceptual distinction. The second important difference is that the separate provisions of Bill 2235 are somewhat better than the Government Bill 2235-1. Many of them match the word literally. The third is that the government bill completely excludes the concept of leasing from the Ukrainian Code of Commerce. The Committee agreed that this was not entirely true, the Ukrainian Economic Code regulates the activities of enterprises in full and businesses in Ukraine are leasing and excludes them from the Code of Commerce and operations related to them undesirable and improper. In view of the above, the Committees recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill of Government of 2235-1 as the basis for the first reading and reject the bill of 2235.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u30	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Will there be questions? None. I'll have a wish, Yuri Mikolaiovich. When the committee is working for the second reading, find a replacement for the word “leasing” in English. And I would ask that as little as possible in our laws as possible to use words that are not Ukrainian words, that would be much better. Because some fight for the purity of speech, and they constantly use foreign words. Thank you, sit down, please. Please, who wants to take part in the discussion, please sign in. Who else would want it from the MPs? Mikhail Vasilovich, you're on your way to the rostrum. Yes, please, Checheov Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u31	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. We are now considering two parallel bills to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on leasing, this is Bill 2335, the People's Chamber of Saints, and the bill on the same issue is governmental. The 2235 People's Deputies Project proposes to amend the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine, the Code of Commercial Maritime Affairs of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine on financial leasing, on the State registration of immovable property rights and their restrictions, on banks and banking activities, on financial services and on the State regulation of financial services markets with a view to ensuring a single approach to the regulation of lysing relationships and creating the necessary preconditions for expanding the possibilities of using and lysing operations to update core funds. The government project 2235-1 refers to the same issue, but it is aimed at more detailing the terminology and clarifying the scope of the ice-skating operations. I'm not going to go into more detail about the positive and negative features of a bill. I fully agree with the opinion of the national speaker from the profile committee, and I support the need to base and adopt a government bill in the first reading, and in the process of redrafting the second reading, we can also take positive points from the Bill of the People's Chamber of Saints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u32	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. As far as I know, you're also a member of the same committee, so you can speak on behalf of the committee, because you're the deputy head of the committee. Yeah, no one wants any more? It's all clear. Then I'll put it to a vote. Let's probably do it this way. As a colleague of Voropeyev speaking, he said that on behalf of the authors of the first draft he agreed to what was actually accepted as the basis for the first reading of the government bill, we would put the government bill first in the vote, okay? Then I put a vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts, Bill 2235-1, government. Please vote. [[11:05:10]] For 235 The bill was passed. Please, the committee, as we have entered the language when working on it, take into account the positive aspects of the bill of fellow MPs. Yes, dear fellows, we are now entering the “Virgin”. Please record. Yes, please, Stepan Bulba. Get ready for Polishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u33	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! I have to talk to the next one. As soon as my countrymen came to me from Poltavščina, they reported that in villages, towns, towns, and towns of Poltavšina, the emissaries of the newly discovered Vlasov, a young drummer, were going to attack him to join the socialists in self - protection. I have to turn to Mr. Lucenka for an opportunity: “Merna and on the right. You promise those who will make a great deal of money to you, of course, honest, for David Zhuaniah. But remember that we joined the Socialist Party not for money, we came up for the idea of democratic socialism, which you betrayed a long time ago, betraying your father by betraying your party comrades by selling for your time the minister of internal affairs. And we remember that, and we will never forgive you, and we will never forget it. And I'm asking voters to know and understand why this project was designed and who, and who is in charge of this project, and in whose interests Mr. Lucenko is departing and acting in Ukraine. Of course, in order to prevent the Socialist Party from going to parliament in elections, if they happen. This is the real purpose of the project, called “Demomo self-protection”. And I want us to remember this and not listen to the anecdotes, but to tell them: “Teachers, please go there, to your masters whom you serve, to whom you serve. We will never forgive you.” Mind your own business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u34	Thank you. Yes, Polishchuk gives the word to Koleshnichenko, and it is written down, and others pass on, please, nine minutes. Kojara, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to draw your attention to the fact that, since January 1st of last year, the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages has become effective for Ukraine. In line with the legislation in force, the country that ratified it is obliged to report on the status of implementation of the Charter to the Secretary of the Council of Europe one year after the ratification. And then every three years. Thus, on April 20 of this year, the Ministry of Justice issued a public discussion of the first periodic report. Unfortunately, since December, I have had the opportunity to report and ask the Ministry of Justice to include us in the working group that should have done the report, but we have not been included. So we had to develop an alternative report on the status of Ukraine's implementation of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. I want to say that the main principle of the State of Ukraine during this process of acceptance and implementation of the Charter was not the desire to improve the situation of the rights of linguistic minorities, but the need to make a sense of compliance with the commitments made to join Europe. How can this be pleasing? As a result of our work, we invented the main thing. “Our Ukraine”, as if by ratification, was chosen the same minimum level of protection for all 13 languages, which were declared regional without taking into account the number of their carriers, which in fact led to a narrowing of the rights of Russian-speaking citizens. The Law on the Ratification of the Charter does not contain any mechanism for determining the areas of application of the Charter for each language and the procedure for granting such languages the status of a regional or minority language. In addition, for ratification, Ukraine has chosen a minimum number of items, only 35, with almost all of them being declarative, i.e., for which no action of State support or promotion is required. Thus, while ratifying the Charter, Ukraine did not make any serious commitment to improving the situation with regional and minority languages. I want to say that the state in the face of its leader, Mr. President, Mr. President, is doing everything possible to ignore this Charter, and the rights of linguistic minorities to ignore it altogether. The president has stated on a number of occasions that the topic of regional language, such as a category that does not exist in the Constitution or in any Ukrainian law, has become a subject of language policy, leaving the language field of Ukraine. And this is hardly to be seen as a lack of awareness of the guarantor of human rights and freedoms, and of a citizen with basic domestic legislation in this area, rather as an indication of the head of the state to the officials under the Charter's failure to do so. We therefore invite the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Attorney General of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of Article 6 of the European Charter, which we have ratified and to remind the President of this, since the article states that the parties undertake to ensure that the relevant organizations and individuals are informed of the rights and obligations defined by this Charter. A myth can be said that funding for the implementation of the Charter is at a level of 900 000. A year's worth about 130,000. Euro. The distribution of funds takes place by means of an opaque procedure, without proper control, and with a significant unwarranted imbalance. For example, the Romanian language minority, which is more than 84 times smaller than the Russian minority, received 12 times more government aid, and the Belarusian, the second largest in Ukraine, the Hague, the Slovak minority received nothing at all. Ukraine's legislation on how to use language in Ukraine has not changed once since the ratification of the Charter, despite a large number of initiatives by parliamentarians. So far, no law has been adopted to implement the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. The Constitution and laws of Ukraine declare language rights exclusively for Ukrainian citizens, who are representatives of national minorities, although the Charter is intended to protect regional languages, irrespective of the nationality of their bearers. Regional languages and minority languages in Ukraine are subject to unspoken discrimination and persecution by officials of different levels, even on a public level. The situation with Russian is a sign. Thus, between 89 and 90 school years, there were 4,633 schools in the U.S.R., where Russian was the only language of instruction. Since the 1990s, the number of schools with Russian language has dropped by 3,000 in favor of Ukrainian-speaking and mixed schools. So the reduction was about 65 percent. About 130 schools lose their status annually in Russian. In many areas of the minority country, the number of representatives of hundreds of thousands do not have their own educational institutions. For example, in Winnicky, Wolinski, Ivano-Frankiv, Ternopil, Ravensky, and Kyiv areas, there are over 170 Russian - speaking citizens living in the Russian - language censuses who consider Russian to be their native language, there is no school with Russian language. In the Hmelnicki, Cherkaske, Chernigiv, and Cherniewsky areas, only one educational process is being carried out in Russian. in one school. I want to give you an example. Yesterday, a representative of the President in the Kyiv region of Ms. Ulyanchenko at my press conference said that there were schools in the Kyiv region with Russian language of learning. Mrs. Ulyanchenko testified that she did not even know what was going on in her area. This once again emphasizes that the representatives of the district communities should represent the district communities and be chosen by the people, not as governors appointed by the President. According to statistics in the Kyiv region, there is no school in the Russian language of education in Kiev, which has 2.5 million citizens, about 160,000 students are protected by the rights of Russian - speaking citizens by 2.5 percent, i.e. only 7 schools in Kiev with Russian language. This is a disgraceful disregard for the rights of Russian - speaking citizens. By the year 2000, the proportion of Russian - language students in colleges was lower than that of Russian - speaking citizens. In addition, at the end of 2004, a Russian - speaking university Rector was invited to stop Russian in his first course. In 2005, the Committee on Science and Education recommended that Russian - speaking graduates be banned from taking entrance exams to Russian - language universities. September 1st. For 5 years, the Ukrainian judiciary is conducted exclusively in the national language, destroying the constitutional principles of equality of citizens before the law, access to justice, and the principles of the competition of citizens in court. Today, the work of the authorities in the implementation of the Charter is, at best, not systematic, but partly directed at violations of the rights of linguistic minorities. There is no vertical reporting and real responsibility for the use of measures and the cost spent. Thus, no central monitoring of the implementation of the Charter in Ukraine is being carried out, resulting in a situation in which the relevant State authorities may make no effort to implement the Charter or bear any responsibility. Perhaps the lack of political will to create such a central body is caused by the fact that the authorities are not interested in fulfilling Ukraine’s obligations to the Council of Europe in the area of the protection of regional languages. Thus, we can conclude that Ukraine does not even implement the very limited and declarative positions of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities as they were ratified by our Ukraine. We consider these phenomena to be examples of linguistic racism and discrimination at the national level. During the 16 years since independence, Ukraine has not taken any significant steps to address the issue of ensuring the rights of national and linguistic minorities. Instead, the State’s policy has the character of inaction, silence and actual discrimination against such minorities. The State, while discriminating the communities of linguistic minorities, provides a negative example for society and actually provokes social phenomena of domestic intolerance and racism with regard to the representatives of any minority in Ukraine. I mean. Respectable citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u36	Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u37	The authorities declared war on the rights of national minorities and Russian - speaking citizens of our nation. We accept this challenge. The State, which discriminates against the communities of linguistic minorities, thus sets a negative example for society and actually provokes social phenomena called “substantial intolerance” and “racism”. There is no Ukrainianization in our country -- there is a brutal disintegration in our country, ignoring the rights of national minorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u38	Thank you. Yes, Leonid Kojara, I can't see. Please, Bondarchuk is transmitting Boki. Six minutes. And get Popescu ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u39	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, as my colleague, Stepanovich Bulba, has already said here, from many parts of Ukraine, particularly from Chernigish, from Sumsten, socialists report attacks on them by emissaries of Judah Lucenka in order to lead them astray. This president's court-martial and footman has sent his satanic guard to lie and deceive to recruit unstable people to his "self-guard". Miserable ones who get into his nets don't know who they're dealing with. This gluttonous love of money and self - control in its own time was well - exploiting the Socialist Party. At that time he showed hatred for Yushchenk and Timoshenko, today as a mistletoe, as the harlot had sucked into them and had mutilated Ukraine. We socialists consider it an obligation to warn Ukrainian citizens: Judas Lucenko, sitting on the money of the oligarchs today, will deceive you, as he has deceived us – the socialists, believe no lies, and don't hunt this oligarch-set oligarchus-like left-handered dock. You're dealing with a predator who's not fit for a job. Its nature is to destroy and profit. And what Yushchenko and Timoshenko believed him, that's their problem, he's gonna throw them away. After all, they deserve it, because they're worth each other, one field of berries, all three of them serving one mammy, the capital. In letters and telegrams, many voters ask: Why did the newspaper Silesian News suddenly become the backbone of Luzenka’s Judah? There's nothing all of a sudden. A multi-year head of the “Silly News” John Spudarenko, who, on a one-person basis in December 2005, adopted the newspaper, violating, among other things, the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and the dazzling seeker of the Crown Lucenko found each other in the main love of money. He has recently presented some strange claims to the leadership of the Social Party, saying that he was not being paid. Why the party should fill a millionaire’s pockets with common sense. And Lucenko paid two more in his pierar company, as Spoldarenko himself confessed, he took the trip he was riding — so hard. As a result, Spodarenko sold with the newspaper Lucenko with a few pieces, and now he is fully programmed to serve it, as can be seen from the newspaper. Of course, as long as he pays generously for his treachery, as long as he has it out of it, he says, a splinter. Idea beliefs here, believe it or not, are better known here from the popular domes of the situation: “And I went on my hands, on high heels.” Unfortunately, he is currently a member of the faction of Soccer and Coalition, although he is in this room sometimes, if any, except as a guest. So all five years. In his day, he was one of those who zealously advocated Alexander Moroz for a coalition with the Party of Regions, today, without being in session, without understanding the coalition’s politics, on the pages of the newspaper, of course, with foreign hands and mouths, watering it. The reason is again: Why didn't they give him money? A conscientious, honest, decent person would long have applied for an exit from the faction because she betrayed the Society, but Spódarenko did not and would not have done so, even though she was already the sixth in the Jewish list of Lucenka. He's obviously afraid of losing his parliamentary immunity, he doesn't believe that the election is going to happen, he's waiting for him to be expelled, because that's gonna save the MP. Here is the moral of Spódarenko, who likes to suck his heels sweetly in the same newspaper he edited and to praise himself with the mouths of his deceived people and stately supporters to heaven. However, it's not usually a year's work for a creative and political impotent, because not one decade has anyone written anything, more precisely, not written by him, read it, didn't hear it from this rostrum, but masturbating their own selfishness on the pages of their own newspaper in the 77th year of life clearly indicates the degree of banal moral decline. But look, he's still in his paper, he's got the nerve to give grades, he's still trying to fool himself into swimming, even though he's been in journalism for a long time, and more than that, in politics, he's zero. It's not even a betrayal of itself, because in itself he had nothing to betray, it's a legitimate crown of the unrighteous road to money, it's a celebration of personal, I would say, pathological self-centered and lasciviousness, not dressed in any kind of ammunition. Emptyness is always empty, even if it shakes like an empty bucket, but it is a bucket without water, drinking from it is nothing. So we tell people, if you want to keep lying, trust every Lucenka, Timoshenko, Yushchenka, Spodrenk. They've brought Ukraine to today's ravines, they want to run it on your hill, but they're only going to lead you to a different column. You want to lie, lie, but if you want to live, run away from them like a terrible plague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, please. Prepare Gorbenko Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Highly esteemed colleagues, high-ranking voters, high-ranking fellow citizens. Today, our colleague Koleschenko spoke of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority. And he mentioned that the Romanian national minority, unlike the Russian minority, gets a little bit more when compared to the population. But I want to say why. The thing is, we live compactly. The point is that we even had 114 schools in 1945. The thing is, when we go to the polls all the time, we work very, very actively. And even when we go to our church, we pray in our native Romanian language. But if you look at it from the other side, it's not that good. In all four parts of the region, district heads do not know the language, even though the President of Ukraine has promised to do so during his election campaign. Even in the Hertziev region, where 95 percent of Romanians speak no language, the head of the administration has no knowledge of the language. Is that okay? It's completely abnormal, and it's not included in the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minority Languages. In the same Hertzev region in 1947, all Romanian names were changed, and they were Ukrainianized. No village has a population other than Romanian. And only one little, one little Moorney is Ukrainian, 300 are Ukrainian. But all the names that were completely Ukrainianized remain the same. Even though there was a referendum, people made decisions to get their old names back. Those nationalists who became orange today at the local district and district levels never allowed people to do what they wanted. In 1999, the paper was ratified for the first time, but someone did not like it and submitted it to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court did not say anything in fact, he said in the form of who was to ratify this charter. At the same time, however, the sixth protocol on the abolition of the death penalty in Ukraine was ratified. And it was also signed by the then Supreme Council Head, our colleague Tkachenko. But something on the charter was decided, and there was no decision on the death penalty. Then we wrote in this paper that the application of the Charter rules prevents the narrowing of the existing network of schools, cultural educational institutions, where minority language is used. As soon as this was blocked, of course, it opened the way for the Russian - speaking schools to be closed. In the Chernobyl area, the Romanian school in Corovia, Kamyanz, is closed, where we have 90 percent of the Romanian population, and the language is not even studied. If we don't go back to the idea of implementing those positions that were in 99 years, we will never be able to bring the language situation in Ukraine in order to ensure rights and freedoms for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u42	Thank you. Natalia Gorbenko, please. Prepare, Yegorenko instead of Galunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Every day and every hour, the whole country is witnessing the insolent challenges of the ambushes of democracy, which are constantly being made by a number of representatives of the so-called opposition. Using parliamentary integrity, a group of deputies and politicians from BUT, “Our Ukraine” and some “National Self-Defense”, political extremists Timoshenko, Kirilenko, Lucenko reached the final limit of legal nihilism. This contempt for the Constitution and the law, the gross political provocation that they are doing today, is directed against the fact that when the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic is acting as a stabilizing force in the country, it provides public order, similar deliberate actions aimed at disrupting the situation in the state, creating tensions in society, undermining confidence in public authorities. The main threat posed by such actors from the Yushchenk environment, the creation of a crisis of all power in the state, is the threat of becoming a social crisis when the economy and the citizens react to the efficiency of power. The events that are taking place in Ukraine today put most of our voters at a standstill, and most of them simply imagine what they should do in this situation. In this situation is not a permanent one, Victor Yushchenk’s decision changes several times a day, the opposition constantly raises new demands and siples possible and impossible proposals. The folly of the new parliamentary elections under the old electoral legislation is obvious if not to open the lists, but to introduce an imperative mandate will result in a tunnel of power crisis where the exit is connected with. The imperative mandate does not eliminate the possibility of trade in parliamentary mandates; it will only transfer monopolies to the right of trade to leaders seeking such changes. Which could be even worse if you compare it to a level. The essence of the crisis of power can also be deepened in the endless possibility of not recognizing the results of the elections, the possibility of defying the democratic procedure in the Constitution when the elections are held in a timely manner. Therefore, not only are the decrees to terminate the Supreme Council's powers for the President's whims, but they actually eliminate the Supreme Council of Lawlessness. The same lawless release of the president and the three judges during the trial of the constitutionality of his decrees. This is the liquidation of the President of the Independence of the Court, this is a sign of disaster. The President's orders and the Supreme Council's rulings are equal, if there are different interpretations, then the Constitutional Court should consider this, if there is no independent Constitutional Court, there is no independent court at all. Without a court of democracy, there can be no democratic elections, and so there can be no democratic elections. And yet, I think it's a chance to find a reasonable compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u44	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u45	The possibility of developing a set of decisions that would allow these choices to be conducted on a more legitimate basis, when both sides may need to give up something, someone's plans, someone's ambitions, these proposals made by our coalition to a working group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Tamara Vasilovna Yegorenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u47	Honourable deputies, distinguished radios, TV viewers, observing developments in the political situation over the past weeks, cannot but ask the President today. Victor Andreevich! To what plague will you spread not only the internal uprisings but also the international authority of our State. I have as a model the unscrupulous foreign policy, the guarantor of our Constitution, his failed attempt, so to speak, to have a tea with Tony Blair. I'm sorry, you don't have to eat tea in England, you have to make arrangements in Ukraine, you have compromises, you have to do things in the legislative field. Today, in the East and in the West, not only our Ukraine, we have seen this, but in other countries, we have all been fed up with the promise of our President. And they're used to or used to what our guarantor says in the evening, and they might change in the morning. Small Ukrainians want to live in harmony, in peace in our country, it's an axioma, it's a free man's right in a free state. And this right is to be guaranteed by us politicians who have been chosen by the people. I appeal to the representatives of all political parties, all the efforts that are represented in the Supreme Council today, and also to the representatives of parties and movements who profess great love for Ukraine, swear their love for the Ukrainian people but do nothing to do so. Let us, respected policies, dust the radicals, help us find a compromise that will bring the State back into the legal field. The rule of law and the strict observance of the law are the formula for normalizing the situation in our Power today. I am a young member of this level, but I have had experience in the structure of local self-government, which has been so philosophical in recent years. Do not eloquence, colleagues, to translate into the language of law the widest field of rights and responsibilities of local authorities. There, people are waiting for a better life, living and working in the hope that we, after all, will help them not only survive, but also live a more human, European life, believing that Ukraine will take a decent place in the world community. And believe me, that's not the only time they're going to ask us for tea in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-18-m0.u48	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! All who signed up had the opportunity to express themselves. I remind you that the next plenary week we have a plenary meeting in accordance with our calendar plan, which is Tuesday, Monday, the Conciliation Council meeting, Tuesday, the plenary meeting. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
