ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council is continuing its work. And the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:02:42]] A total of 419 national deputies were registered. The Supreme Council can continue its work. It was announced by two factions before the end of the morning session. Are there those who would like to speak out on this matter from the factions that announced the break? I see. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. From the site or. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, respectable radio audiences, televisers! Our supporters are alarmed by the direct broadcast that took place on the Rada Channel, the meetings of the joint factions of BUT and Our Ukraine. Their concerns and calls are largely justified by the fact that the representatives of the two factions have consistently stated that Ukraine must be dealt with in an accelerated manner with the accession of NATO, the World Trade Organization, the heroization of UN-OPA bandits, such as Shuhevic, the stoning of our ancestors, the destruction of historical memory, its symbols, the inflaming of Russophobia. Their concern also rests on the principled ideological differences in these issues. We value the trust and concern of our supporters, and we share this concern fully. We note unfounded accusations against parliamentary professionalism and our comrade, as also some participants in this joint meeting of the two factions have said. Therefore, respectable colleagues have been prompted by our request for a suspension of the meeting. We used this time to discuss the situation and made the right decision, as always. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to continue the work of the Supreme Council and I will remind you that we have considered with you the question of choosing the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. An offer was made by the national deputy Zvaric. Before voting, I would very much ask Roman Mikhailovich to recall his proposal by clearly setting it down, as we will vote on it. Please. Cooking microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is as follows: according to part eight of article 70 and part four of article 74 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a procedural decision is proposed, namely, to hold the nomination and election of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first deputy and deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a single list.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u5	Please, Your Honor, we've already discussed this issue with you, and now, I'm asking you to put this proposal to the vote. Please vote. I'm asking you to call off the vote. I ask you to call off the vote. Dear colleagues, the people's deputies have turned to what, first of all, a vague position. So I realized that it was for the motivation of the vote that I wanted to ask a question. This is the first time. Second, there's information that several of the colleagues' cards went missing during the break. So I ask you, Roman Mikhailovich, once again let me see if you can record your proposal, and I ask you to sign up after that, five minutes to discuss this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u6	Dear National Deputies! I think I'm very concise and very clear on my procedural proposal. It relates to the following: according to part eight of article 70 and part four of article 74 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the nomination and election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a single list.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up, and five minutes to discuss it. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u8	I ask you to pass the word to Lukash, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u9	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! I have a point to make right now. We are assured that we are making a so-called “procedural decision”. I would like to draw your attention to the requirement of article 49 of our Rules, where an exclusive list of issues from which the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make the procedural decision itself, as Mr. Zvaric pointed out. In this case, the question of a similar vote is not provided for by such an article. That is why we are now being misled and forced to make an illegal decision. If you have suggestions, put them in writing, as noted by Comrade Shufrich. Provide them, we will consider them, and in the order established by the Rules, we will adopt them. This is not an ad-hoc, and this is not a procedural decision. You're lying to us right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u10	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u11	Thank you. Sergey Pavlovenko, “Block of Lithuania” faction. I give the word to Michael Orota, the head of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, in the 1996 Constitution, it was written: Law on the Regulation. We have abolished the word “law”, but we cannot reverse the constitutional position where the Head of the Supreme Council is elected by Parliament. Not in a bag. Therefore, the rule in the package in the Rules is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to democratic principles. If we want to finally destroy parliamentaryism in Ukraine, then we need to vote in a package, but we don't need to call the coalition a democratic future, because democracy will no longer exist. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u13	Please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u14	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear friends, now there's a lot going on: a violation of the procedure vote, and so on. Any national MP may be the subject of the nomination and says: “I am now entering the position of a national deputy. “The Head of the Supreme Council of Yatzenuk, the Deputys of Tomenka and, for example, Martinyuk or Sharov or Bogetirov”. And then it goes down, and it's perceived. And let's not make this up, this is the norm of the current Rules. We don't change it. We don't have to vote for him in large numbers. That's enough. It's your duty to then make the formulations and make them a list immediately, because it's written in part eight of Rule 70. We'll make it legal, don't worry, it'll be fine. This does not conflict with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u15	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u16	Thank you. Klinkarov, the Communist faction. Alexander Valentinovich! First of all, I ask you to remove the cards of those people's deputies who are not present in this room, in particular Spodarenko and Dughiya. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to ask you what led to the handover of Tomenko and Martinyuk to the people's deputies. Who, in particular, recommended to the Presidency and who gave the command to the Supreme Council apparatus to distribute these documents?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to Shevchenk Andrew. Please. The faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u18	Today we can and should choose the Presidency of the Supreme Council. I ask you to give it to Joseph to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! I want to say on behalf of our faction that Peter Mikolaiovich did not exactly reflect the conversation we had at the general coalition meetings. In no way did the questions raised in his statement appear in these congregations of languages. This is evidenced by the 227 deputies who attended these meetings. We discussed strictly personnel issues. In other matters of a meaningful nature, we have not considered these issues, since we have written these issues in a treaty of coalition activities, and they are clearly defined, and there was no need to talk about them. So I'd like you to be specific about our performances. If there's any other reason for the communists to behave differently, it's a different matter, but there hasn't been such a conversation at the faction meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! We're done discussing this with you, this isn't the first time we've done this. And I have to make a few comments here were questions. First. As for the résumé of the National Deputies. It's not a problem any deputy can share his biography and I don't see any problem here, fellow respectable fellows. The second question. As for the illegality of asking questions. I would very much like to have honourable colleagues take up the rules of the Supreme Council, open up the matter of electing the Chief of the Supreme Council, and read that this is a procedural issue that is foreseen by the Rules. And the Supreme Council is determined by itself by which to conduct the election of the Head of the Supreme Council: a list, along with the deputies, or separately. This decision must be made by the Supreme Council, and we can do it with you. And last but not least, dear colleagues. A statement came from two factions, the "Julia Timoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" to take a break for 30 minutes. During this time, we can study the Rules without asking too many questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u21	The Supreme Council continues its work. After an announcement I would like to give a word from the faction that initiated this break, the national deputy of Ukraine, Roman Zvaric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u22	Honourable National Deputies, a coalition of MPs in their congregations today, have made a decision to propose the office of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a representative of the opposition. We have come out of the fact that it is fair, that such a decision would be right and, most importantly, such a decision would be absolutely democratic. We also understood that the opposition could have its own representative in the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on only one condition that most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted for it. To form such a majority, it is clear that coalition factions would also have to join the vote. Understanding the procedure for the election of these three positions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we therefore put forward a proposal for the nomination and voting of the Head, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a single list. Because in our opinion, it would really give us an opportunity to ensure representation of the opposition among the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Instead, although this is a subject of great surprise to us, we have heard from opposition representatives today various accusations at the coalition's address that a democratic procedure is being violated and that it is not possible to do so. In view of this very situation, although I emphasize that it has not been understood for us, I am formally withdrawing my proposal to make a procedural decision on the election and nomination of the Head, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u23	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! We continue our consideration of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the Supreme Council Rules, we are about to begin your nomination for the presidency of the Supreme Council. Please register for the appointment of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, please. Dear colleagues! Let's begin the nomination for the post of Head of the Supreme Council. The word is given to the national deputy Poljančič, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u24	Yes, please pass the word Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u25	The word is given to the national deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u26	Viacheslav Kirilenko “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! Based on the decisions of the two factions of the coalition and the democratic forces, namely the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "Blok Yulia Timoshenko", the coalition of democratic forces is bringing to the Supreme Council the candidature Jacinuk Arseny Petrovic to the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u27	The word is given to the people's representative, Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Siroto Mikhail Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u29	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of the Poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! From the “Block of Lithuania” I want to thank the Temporary Presidium for listening to our position. And since we need to put forward today not only a candidate for headship but also a substitute. I would like to see opposition factions first held by opposition factions and put their representatives on the stand. Maybe it would be Nestor Schuffritch or someone else, but still from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u31	I mean, I realized that there wasn't a promotion from your faction as head of the Supreme Council. Please, from the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko, ” the word is given to Shevchenko. But if, I take it, there's a joint rise of two factions, please, we can keep moving on to the list. Is there no objection? Is there no objection? Please give the floor to the national MP, Skudar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u32	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Shufrich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u33	The honourable Chief, honourable colleagues, is really a little bit surprised by the statement by the representatives of the orange coalition that they seem to want to face the opposition, even though it's not quite clear where we actually have the coalition, but where the opposition is. But I would like to remind you, in the Supreme Council on the fifth call of almost a year, the representatives of the real coalition, who created a real government that actually worked almost a year, were waiting for the opposition to determine when it would weaken each other and put forward a candidate for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who eventually became Mikola Tomenko. And the coalition, as a respected political structure voted in favour of Mikli Tomenka's candidacy and appointed him vice-speaker from opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the nomination for the presidency of the Supreme Council is now under way. And I ask you very much, my fellow Members, to follow the Rules and to move forward. We had a discussion this morning, we could speak from factions, and there will be a chance for performances tomorrow morning. That's why I'm asking you, the word is given to the Klukkov People's Deputy, so I understand that I support my colleagues' proposal to raise Yatsenuks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u35	Thank you. I'd like to tell my opposition colleagues. We wanted to meet you, and now you're trying to catch up on the train that left. I want to remind you that every spoon is good for lunch. If you have specific suggestions, we can go back to the idea of voting by list, but let's make our proposals real, or you're fighting the list first, and then you're telling us why we're forgetting the opposition. Therefore, I believe that we should now go to the election of the Supreme Council of Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk and I call on everyone who is capable of working on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! [[Applause]] Practically all the factions who signed up for the talk from the press had the opportunity to speak were not just Communists. The communists will be running for office? It won't. Dear colleagues, can we put at risk the nomination of the Supreme Council? We can. Please. Dear colleagues, that's why I'm asking. Please. Lukyanov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u37	Dear fellow MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to highlight some points. Well, first of all, the so-called democratic coalition that declared itself in the Supreme Council for today is not present, there are signatures on the registration, but now there are no signatures in the Spodarenko, Zhivago, Ivy and many others, you see, but Zhivago, there may be, but check it out. I demand! No, if there is, where Ivy is, where Spódarenko is and there are lots of other places available. That's the first one. Yeah. So I demand that these cards of these people be blocked, that a re-register be held now, and that only those people who are personally present in the room vote. We promised that we would demand that there be clear control, and we insist on that now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u38	I mean. Thank you. I understand that a member of the faction of the region proposes to vote with cards. Yes or no? The word is given to the People’s Deputy Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u39	Lucenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Actually, I'd like to remind respectable colleagues in the Party of Regions that all is well, the vote will be ballots. And it's only those people who get the ballots in their own hands, and they're going to drop them in their own urns to calculate the results of the vote. For Ivan Stepanovich Plusha, please don't worry, he didn't sign the coalition, he doesn't go into two hundred and twenty-seven, and now he's in the football game in Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I have come to understand that the nomination for the post of Chief of the Supreme Council has come to an end. When there are no other candidates, I will remind you that there is only one candidate for the People's Deputies of Yatsenuk. According to the rules, he has the opportunity to speak for up to twenty minutes. I'm asking you to meet Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u41	Distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to start by saying that this isn't my first performance from this rostrum. However, this is my first performance, first of all, as the national deputy of Ukraine, and second of all, in such a complex and specific quality as the head, nominee on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You all have a great deal of parliamentary experience. Let me share with you my vision, given that I was able to get to know a number of laws and regulations that regulate the work of the Supreme Council. The way I see it, personally. The role and place of the Head of the Supreme Council, as I see personally the role and place of the governing bodies of the Supreme Council, how we can and should work within the Supreme Council, and in fact what we want to do as a result. First and most important of all, I think you'll agree with me, that the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whoever it is, is one of the four hundred national deputies. This is one of the people who has the same rights as national deputies and others, and one who, because of serious circumstances, is able to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The second postulate. Regrettably, under historical circumstances, the head of the Supreme Council often tried to be the first, second, third, twenty - fifth man of the State. I think that the Head of the Supreme Council should be primarily a man for the Supreme Council, a man for Parliament and an organizer of Parliament's work itself, because the Supreme Council is one of the key tools for the implementation of the peoples of government. It is one of the key branches of Ukrainian power, which is the legislative branch of power. The third and most important is the search for consensus in Parliament's walls. As a foreign minister, I was able to visit a number of Western and Eastern parliaments. The specific thing about democracy is that consensus can't be like that. If there was consensus, there would be no different political forces, there would be no different political parties, in fact, there would be no black and white. But the specific activity of the Head of the Supreme Council is to try to consolidate the position. Consolidate the position at least by key national priorities. And I'm convinced that we can't have a discussion on key national priorities, that there is independence, that there is a statehood, that there is a territorial integrity of Ukraine, that there is an inviolability of its borders, that there is human rights, that is, in fact, the rule of law, as well as its fundamental elements, including freedom of speech. These are the things that all political forces and political parties should have one vision. As for other things that are objectively linked to our work. We may have a very substantive and complex discussion, starting with the Tax Code and ending with some or other rules of budgetary legislation or the Earth Code. That's why we're called to the Supreme Council. This is our mission. Our mission is to find tools for the implementation of state policy to find tools to shape the process of state-building in Ukraine. The third and, as far as I'm concerned, is also an extremely important moment in the future of the Supreme Council's day-to-day work. I don't think it would make sense if even a nominee to the Supreme Council head would be giving any kind of action programme, because it can't be a program of action by the Chief of Staff, it could be a program of action by the Supreme Council as a college body. But in the daytime order we have a number of very important things, starting with a package of previous legislation, which is an addition to the coalition agreement and ending with important key elements, what is the Ukrainian government action programme, which, unfortunately, has not been approved for a long time. The second very important document, which is the State Budget Act for the following year, we are entering critical deadlines for the formation of the 2008 State Budget. The third is the Social and Economic Development Programme, which is the only common package that should give clear direction to the development of the State in 2008. The completion of, and more precisely, the beginning is the implementation of judicial reform, administrative reform and all others, including various, perhaps not popular, reforms that need to be undertaken for the stability of the state. As a fairly young person, as a man who worked in foreign policy, I can promise you that if I am elected as Head of the Supreme Council, I will ensure multilateral diplomacy within the walls of the Supreme Council and ensure European standards of parliamentaryism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u42	Fellow citizens, national deputies have the right to ask questions to the candidate for this very high office. I'm asking you to sign up. In 20 minutes. Please. The word is given to the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u43	Thank you. Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, as a hypothetical or as you say, is a nominee for the position of the Supreme Council's head, you will have to stand for very many positions of a meaningful character, not a declarant, but a meaningful one. In this regard, I have very specific questions for you. Ukraine’s President, Viktor Yushchenko, insists that a full - scale market for land should be established in Ukraine on 1 January 2008. Please tell me, what position will you take regarding the land market and the moratorium? The other one. One of the subjects of your coalition introduced the bill just as of January 1st, the appeal for term in Ukraine has been terminated. The president of Ukraine, as is known, has already appointed two appeals in 2008. How will you act in this situation? And the third question. How will you feel about trying to accept 2, 5, 12 or 25 bills with a package, or one click of a button? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u44	Dear colleague, with your permission, I will begin on the ground. It was from this rostrum last year that I represented the veto of the President of Ukraine on a package of legislation for the introduction of a moratorium on land sales. And I can comment on this position exclusively as a national MP and as a person who had some bearing on this issue a year ago. It's number one. The purchase, sale of land today in Ukraine is very active, despite the fact that there is a moratorium in Ukraine today. Item two. By not taking down the moratorium and creating the conceptual shadow market of the earth, we created a separate cohort of Ukrainian oligarchs, which we can call landlords. Paragraph three. Officially, there are about six thousand land-sale agreements registered on the Ukraine State Committee for 2006. Paragraph 4. If a peasant can't manage his land today, it's up to me to say that it's impossible to manage a crop that can't be managed by any property that belongs to a peasant. Paragraph five. In view of the fact that he does not have the opportunity to go to the bank and get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u45	Please give me the opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u46	Can we keep going? In view of the fact that he cannot continue to go to the bank and get credit because he does not have ownership of the land. Once in the Soviet Union, we took our passports to the peasants, and now we're taking away his land. And the last one, probably, is very important to me. It is said that there are no legal conditions for the formation of the earth’s market. However, it's not surprising, but we have the Land Market Act, we have the Land Assessment Act, we have the Earth Code, and we have an incredible number of different legal regulations on this issue. What should we not allow? It is not to be allowed, unfortunately, that practice that has been practiced in certain countries, when, in the face of regulatory imbalances in the sale of land, the same land as those purchased at the moratorium has been squandered. All of this lies solely in the scope of the public authorities’ performance of their functions. And last of all, with your permission, on the ground. So that it doesn't happen that when we take down the moratorium on selling land, we're all surprised to find out that there's nothing to sell anymore because we've sold everything. As far as the question of the appeal is concerned, I think that this is the subject of internal discussion, and most of the question of the appeal will be resolved on a consensus basis as previously stated. [[who is already registered in the Supreme Council]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u47	Please, National Deputy Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u48	As for any vote, I will comment on the following. Because of my first legal education, I'm a terrible formalist, so it's all under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u49	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u50	Garbage, Party of Regions. A few questions, Arseny Petrovich. First question: please tell me that you have been working and working as a minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine, and there is this question today, under the visa regime. The citizens of Ukraine pay the visa fee of the Consular Congregation, so called for a visa. Similarly, citizens in our territory from similar countries in Western Europe and other countries do not pay. Don't you think that's how the state has suffered significant damage over the past three years? That's the first question. The second question. Regarding your work. Please explain to me: you were employed in 1998–2001 as deputy head of the Board of the “Awal” Bank. Tell me, please, when, after what time period, you worked clearly in this position, what functions you performed. So that we can understand your biography more clearly. And one last question. You don't have it in your questionnaire.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u51	Is there something missing? Please continue. Arsenius Petrovich, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u52	You don't have a nationality in the poll.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u53	Nationality was in the Soviet Union, article 5. Nationality is Ukrainian. Father born in the city of Chernivci, mother born in the city of Colomia As far as I know, you're somewhere in Western Ukraine, there's a lot like you. That's why. [[Applause]] So by nationality, I would ask, if we start with nationality and with that tolerance, that's a good start. That's a very good start. Now, about my work biography. So this is just my sixth resignation, so I can give you another comment about everything that's happened. So 1991 is a law student, and in 92 I create a law firm, and in 96 I graduate from the National University of Cherniewec. [[Lawyer-lawsman]] In the 96th I move to Kiev in fact, in 97th I start with a consultant to the credit department of the “Awal” Bank of Shareholders, and then I move to Crimea. In Crimea first, the Supreme Council “read” me Crimean, becoming the minister of the economy of Crimea. Two months later, the majority of the votes were the minister of the economy. For 2 years I have been working in Crimea as Minister of Economics, and then I move to Kiev, the first deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine. In 2004, I became head of the National Bank of Ukraine. After what happened in 2005, I'm moving in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u54	Please give the floor to National Deputy Grigorovitch. I think the survey data is all, they're given to the people's deputies, they can read them very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u55	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The great Arsenius Petrovich, first of all. Arsenius Petrovich! Arsenius Petrovich, first of all, let me thank you very much for implementing the standards of European parliamentaryism in our Parliament. Ukraine is a member of the Council of Europe. And unfortunately, political corruption is a phenomenon last year. I hope the people of your generation and your expertise are capable of overcoming this phenomenon. Finally, your outstanding work as head of the National Bank in 2004 showed that you were serving as the minister of the economy and minister of foreign affairs. After all, that is what your professional, brilliant answers are about today. So thank you and wish you success.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u56	Thank you. The questions were not heard. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u57	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. The great Arsenija Petrovich, not the secret that the Supreme Council’s rating, especially after the fifth call, fell tremendously. And this led to a huge mistrust of our activities, primarily because there was political corruption, because there were many traitors, transitions. And you have a pretty important task: to raise the ratings of the Supreme Council. At the same time, I want to know your steps, because both in the fifth vocation and in the past vocations, not often in this room was the national language, the Ukrainian language, but in the language of another state. Your concrete steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u58	I think that raising the level of parliament and parliamentaryism is, in fact, our shared task. And it depends on each individual, which level of trust both in society and in Ukrainian politics will be to a key and extremely important body, which is the Ukrainian Parliament. As for the language issue, it is clearly defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on Languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u59	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the township.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u60	Please give the floor to the Deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you that our faction was looking at Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk's candidacy today. There was a serious, lively discussion. And the faction unanimously supported Arsenius Yatsenuk's candidacy as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to our colleagues in the Party of Regions, I want to say that we take this kind of vote seriously. At this point 156 members of the BUT faction are present, registered, and will give their votes in the same way as is stipulated by both our agreement and our approach, because we are consistent. And I have a question for Arsenius Petrovich. We discussed the opposition issue today, and our faction, in order to consolidate Parliament, volunteered to offer the position of First Vice-Speaker. Obviously they weren't ready for that kind of democracy of ours. How do you view the status of the opposition, and how should it work?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u62	This is one of the most important issues of all the activities of political institutions as such. Objectively, if the majority is overwhelming, there must be opposition. During a period of time, circumstances may arise when they change. And this is, in fact, a democracy, this is a democratic process. The essence and purpose of the Supreme Council is to give everyone equal and equal access. The rights of opposition must be protected as well as the rights of the majority. Because in my opinion, opposition is also the authority, the control power. And the more effective the opposition is, if most are reasonable and wise, it becomes even more effective. Because the function of opposition is always to push, push the majority, push the government into better and more positive decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u63	The word is given to the national deputy, Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u64	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, first of all, forgive the question of nationality. Our faction honors people of all backgrounds. Now the question is: Today the national MPs, today the Turkish National Deputies and Timoshenko have registered a bill stating that, as of January 1, 2008, the military will be called off. How will you vote on this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u65	We will vote as we do for the Chief of the Supreme Council today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u66	The word is given to the national deputy, Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u67	Arsenija Petrovich, I am confident that the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko will fully support your candidacy, because this is a signal to the country that a democratically effective majority is emerging in the country, and I hope that an effective government will soon emerge that will build a successful, just country. And the question I have is, how long will you, as the Head of the Supreme Council, Arsenija Petrovich, be ready to move as quickly as you can in the sense of forming a government? It is a quick, brilliant submission to the President of the candidature of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. And how do you see the further mechanism of government formation, as far as you can see the assurances that this process will be carried out quickly and effectively by Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u68	As I see it, the key element of the formation of a democratic coalition is not only the signing of an agreement to create a democratic coalition and not just the election of the Supreme Council, but so much the selection of all the bodies that, in fact, have been signed by a democratic coalition. And the key is executive power. So the sooner a government is formed in Ukraine, the sooner we will put Yulia Timoshenko on the post of Prime Minister, the better I think we will have a result, including in 2008. We have a very complex agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u69	The word is given to the national MP, Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u70	Please hand over to Catherine Timothy Vashtuk the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u71	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u72	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, how do you see a system of increasing the role of democracy and the overall face of parliamentaryism in Ukraine without changing electoral legislation? So how would you react to changing electoral legislation to a greater responsibility of national MPs to your electorate by reducing this dependence and responsibility on political leaders? And secondly, as a serious economist with an experience of finance, how do you see the role of the Supreme Council in establishing a stable and in the interests of people of the credit, monetary and exchange policy of the National Bank of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u73	If you allow the election process to begin, you have two questions to be divided here. These are technical questions that concern, including the holding of early elections, the recently held parliamentary, ideological bloc, which is either major or proportional and, in fact, a proportional system for Ukraine as a whole. [[And here we have a clear answer.]] I'll start with technical questions. After the 2007 elections, we have about five key standards to change in Ukraine’s electoral legislation. And this was emphasized by both the PACE Monitoring Committee and, in fact, the OSCE. So to the next election, God willing to let them go into the terms defined by the Constitution, we will be sure to approach the electoral law already prepared, which will remove the technical flaws, starting with the voter register, and ending by voting in a foreign constituency. With regard to the individual responsibility of the national MP. There are several internal contradictions in me personally. Nevertheless, voting in Ukraine, regardless of what it goes through behind party lists, is more or less replicated in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u74	Mr Volodymira Mikhailovich, please give us your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u76	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u77	And yet, as a national MP, I would only suggest that we complete the real formation of the political system in Ukraine. And to introduce such a term as “political responsibility” as such. By the way, when we formed our own package of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, there was a definition of political responsibility that fell out of that unconstitutional Cabinet of Ministers Act. So this is the next position. A party should be responsible for the MP. The party is the main driving force of any democracy. And given that we've changed from Majority to Proportionate, I think this way we need to keep moving -- the formation of real, powerful parties in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u78	Thank you. Turn on Stretovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u79	Vladimir Stretovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Arsenija Petrovich, first of all, let me welcome you with a nomination in such young years for one of the highest positions in Ukraine. Second, wish you'd successfully passed both these poor fates and remain as you are. And thirdly, ask you a question as a lawyer. Do you not think that under the conditions of today’s legal nihilism in the state it is urgent to strengthen parliamentary control? If you think that, as you think, this should be done to ensure that when we move to the parliamentary-presidential republic of our country, the role of Parliament is in the right place to monitor compliance with legislation, to protect human rights and freedoms, and to protect citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u80	Parliamentary control is, of course, one of the key elements, including parliamentary activity. For example, starting with the BSS, which is actually under parliamentary control, there is a whole series of articles of the Ukrainian Security Service Act that settle this issue, and ending with other law enforcement agencies. But in my opinion, Parliament itself is not capable of providing a full control function. I mean, it's the exclusive cooperation of all branches of power, on the one hand, and all the bodies responsible for it. Therefore, in the appointment, when we consider in this session room the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine and other persons appointed by the Supreme Council and associated with either the law enforcement authorities or the special authorities or the procurators, that is where we will be tasking them, and that we will appoint solely from the signs of professionalism and those for which the flow is not required, and those who will be directly responsible for the government functions and powers imposed on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, Suškevich Vladimir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u82	Arsenya Petrovich, I wish you health so that you do not lose your job in such a high office. Make sure you always have it. And the question is. We've just voted for changes in the order of the Committees, where the Social Committees were the last. But there is a much sadder situation when social issues were usually at the end of the day. I want to ask you, as the future speaker of Parliament, do you think that the priorities of the debate in Parliament were, after all, the issues of pensioners, veterans and disabled people and those who needed our help?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u83	I'm going to let myself answer that question both as a deputy and as a former minister of the economy. In the last two years, actually, the social dimension has become key in both the budgetary process and, in fact, in all the political initiatives that have been put forward by all political parties, I want to highlight all the political parties and factions that are present today. So social spending has gone up and up at an incredible rate, we have to combine social policies with healthy macroeconomics, so that we don't have to put social policies at the top of our list, and we forget that capital punishment can become empty. As a result, macroeconomic stability, internal market development, internal product growth, and income base formation must go hand in hand with the development of large social infrastructure and social expenditure. This policy was implemented in 2005, and this policy has a bearing today, so I think it's going to be reflected in the 2008 budget, but let's wait for the budget from the new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u84	Thank you, Arsenija Petrovich, the time for questions is over and now, dear fellows, we can discuss this candidate with you, yes, we can sit down. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that we have only five factions, do I feel that the factions are clearly formed, there is an offer of 20 minutes, no objection to discussion? There's no objection. Please sign up for the discussion. The word is given to the national deputy, Alexei. Alexandersky has a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, for the first time in the Chamber, we are starting our direct work and, as stated in the Rules and in the laws of Ukraine, under the Constitution, we are discussing the first important issue: the formation of the governing bodies of the Supreme Council, the election of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, the question is serious and it cannot make us indifferent. But unfortunately, Arsenija Petrovich, you know, we supported your candidacy, voted as Minister for Foreign Affairs. And here, in that room, there were also debates and the question was also very acute, the situation was mixed, we supported this candidacy. And today, the question is, can this man lead the Supreme Council of Ukraine? You know, I'll tell you, but he's not listening, he's not interested, I understand why, he's taken a position, the factions have taken a stand. Therefore, he even asked, “How will you vote?” he said, “How will they vote today?” It is a very poor quality, by the way, because being President of the Supreme Council, it is necessary to be responsible, not only to your party, but not only to your faction, not only to the President, before the people of Ukraine. Because it is necessary to understand that the fate of Ukraine is being decided here. Unfortunately, the answers I heard convinced me that Arseni Petrovic could not lead the Supreme Council of Ukraine; he was the Minister of Economy; he had economic education. There is an MP sitting next to me, the first elected farmer, and when he heard the answer to the question, “How do you feel about the idea of selling land?” And Arsenius Petrovich said that it was a very serious issue and without the sale of land, a person could not really exercise his right to land, sell the products that were grown, get credit in a bank under the collateral of that land. She sits and wonders, this new MP, says “as well as selling land to land.” The fact is that you and I know that the right to sell is not an exhaustive right to land and is not an obstacle. use this land as its property: to rent it, to deposit it, to grow crops and to realize the goods obtained there. Jacinyuk’s response surprised me very much. So, in fact, a person is going to judge what he, unfortunately, does not know well. Let's move on. It was said that he saw his task to ensure the right of the opposition and the right of the majority. No, we all want to be with you, and we have repeatedly discussed in this room that the Speaker, the President of the Supreme Council, must demand that the Supreme Council work regulations be respected and that the Constitution be respected. That is, unfortunately, to demand what representatives of the Red-headed Union do not acquire or comply with. Their leader, unfortunately, violated the Constitution, issued illegal decrees on the early termination of the Supreme Council. And here, too, I didn't like Yatzenuk's position because he must be a neutral man, tolerant. And we saw it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u86	The word is given to the national deputy Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! I would like to touch on a few points. The first moment that Arsenius Yatsenuk is really not a bad candidate for a speaker. This is a person who has worked in many positions and has proven himself to be a good, grammatical specialist, who has been quite tolerant in carrying out his duties as Minister for Foreign Affairs, has managed to escape acute conflicts and smooth the situation. And in fact, I would like to vote for him personally. But I don't see everyone in this room sharing those words, so I understand this gool. Or has the discussion begun? Regrettably, even when positive things are said within his supporters, this is already perceived in a mixed way. Unfortunately, it's very much tearing our country apart. Therefore, hold back and try to understand what is said properly. On the other hand, a person who will be a speaker must be elected legitimately and without violation. 69. Article 69 of the Rules indicates that MPs and deputies have the right of nomination. Regrettably, the chairman has not now given an opportunity to sign up for more than twenty speakers. After seven people took the floor, the chairman, without consulting anyone, drew the line and thus violated the Rules and denied the MPs the right to self-promotion on the speaker. Therefore, if we want to comply with the spirit and letter of the law, the spirit and the letter of the Supreme Council's Rules, I believe that this issue needs to be reopened and reopened, given the opportunity of everyone who has signed up to speak on this matter. Either any action after that moment would not be legitimate, because it was done in violation of the Rules and I think neither I nor most of those present would violate the Rules and choose the Speaker, take the first steps immediately in violation of the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. I therefore also appeal to the Speaker to re-vote these decisions and to act strictly in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u88	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national MP of Orota, the block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the Lithuanian bloc honors the will of 227 national deputies who today can elect the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I underline, not the Speaker of Parliament, but the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who will be responsible for the work, the effective work of everything, the entire Supreme Council, and, more importantly, when it comes to the active destruction of parliamentaryism as such. Today, we are not only in a parliamentary crisis but also in a political crisis, as noted by the relevant resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the issue of non-admission of an imperative mandate, to change the electoral system because the electoral system behind closed lists of political parties does not exist in Europe as such. The first trials that will be before Parliament will be related to the disagreements that are possible today in an existing coalition that is forming. This refers to both the return of savings and professional armies and other issues that will seriously destabilize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it takes great experience and wisdom for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to keep the Parliament from repeating the fate of the Fifth Assembly Parliament, because if the Supreme Council of the Sixth Council completes its mandate in due course, parliamentaryism in Ukraine as such can be forgiven. It will be particularly serious when we come to a solution to the main problem of today's political crisis, which was violated in 2000 by the Constitution, which has practically stumbled the forehead of the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine, and whoever is elected Prime Minister of the Constitution will force him to conflict with the President, and this will be a very serious test for any coalition of any political colour. Therefore, the Block of Lithuania insists on correcting constitutional violations that lead to conflict and to correcting the procedure enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine, we should not allow the Constitution to be violated by adopting a new Constitution in a referendum. The head of the Supreme Council should ensure the restoration of the Constitution of Ukraine and this, I think, is its first foundation and first task. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u90	Thank you. [[Applause]] The word is given to the National Deputy Stretovich, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u91	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Dear radio listeners! I am speaking on a regular basis in the process of discussing the candidature and will speak solely of the candidature. I would like to draw your attention to Friday's "Freedom of speech" by Savik Schuster, when a prominent politician in Ukraine, Leonid Grac, said that he was the one who gave the trip to our candidate Arsenija Yatsenyuk. Strangely, the one who gave the trip somehow refuses to follow the one who gave the trip. Although he deserves his support, perhaps at this very difficult time, so that his life would continue so successfully at the easy hand of Leonid Ivanovich. If you look at the candidate's biography of the Supreme Council, I think you saw it by the way, but you didn't notice that he founded a law firm at the age of eighteen. Is there going to be a lot of them here today, in an 18-year-old hall, in the second grade of law school, he started a law firm and he's already been working. But look at the growth in the last six years. Starting with the minister of economy in Crimea, where this work had been successful, otherwise there would have been no basic growth, few mention that Arsenija Petrovich actually served as Head of the National Bank during the crisis period of November 2004 after February 2005, until the head was elected. So if you look at the service list, you see everything here. And a job at the law firm of a lawyer by profession, and the minister of the economy, the head of the National Bank, the minister of foreign affairs. And some people argue that he's too young, and I want to tell you that youth, that's the flaw that's going through very quickly, especially in today's Ukrainian realities. And that's the last one. I am convinced and will be very happy that when Arsenius Petrovich becomes Head of the Supreme Council, for the first time in an independent Ukraine a person with a professional legal education will become a speaker. And I think this is the moment when the lawyer in charge of education, the economist in charge of the profession and the call politician becomes the head of the Supreme Council. We wish him success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u92	The word is given to People's Deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mikhajlovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u93	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is a worthy candidate to lead and organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Arsenius Petrovich is a skilled specialist, an economist with whom he was pleased to work in government. He's a formed Ukrainian politician. According to the "Julia Tymoshenko Block", he is able to organize an effective work for the Ukrainian Parliament. Therefore, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” as a consistent supporter of the democratic coalition made a unanimous decision today. All 156 votes of our faction will be given for Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk's candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, representatives of all factions were given the opportunity to speak. Now, please. National deputy player, Communist faction. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u95	I really want to confirm that when Yatzenuk arrived in Crimea in 2001, we did everything we could to trust him, and he became Minister. If he were working under me, he'd make a good minister. Here's to Mr. Stretovic's statement that he's in your hands, and we don't want to get infected by political AIDS.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to make a more correct statement of my position and, honourable national MPs, I would like to have your attention. I understand that everyone is willing not to break this question and vote today. And that's why we're going to continue the work of the Supreme Council until the vote is over. A 20 - minute break is now taking place in order for the Counting Commission to prepare the vote. In five minutes, the Sixth Supreme Council will continue its work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u97	I'll remind you that we've continued our plenary session. And now the word is given to the head of the Counting Commission, the national deputy of Shershun. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u98	In accordance with article 70, paragraph 5, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of the Supreme Council decided to elect the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by secret ballot. The committee at its meeting approved this form of secret ballot: a yellow ballot, a yellow paper in the form of a four - corner black. [[I'm showing you white.]] One candidate for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich, was put on the ballot for secret ballot. In this regard, it is suggested that the people’s deputies be elected. In case of support for the proposed candidate, any mark squared against the name is placed. I'm just asking you, your honor, not to have words like that, you know. In case of non-support, a check is placed in the corresponding square. Let's stress that there's only one mark in the ballot. If additional tags or other aliases are entered, the ballot will be considered invalid. The number commission asks the chairman to announce a break for preparation by about 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, before we announce a recess, we need to confirm the pattern of the ballot that the head of the Counting Commission has just been talking about. Any questions, yes, from the voting procedure? Let's do a five-minute ballot before the vote. Please write down who has the questions from the procedure. Please sign in. The word is given to Lukyan, a faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u100	Valentin Aleksandrovitch, I demand that the MPs' cards absent from the hall be removed, blocked. I have already stated this and read this requirement, but nothing has been done. The same statement was made to the faction secretariat. We know that some MPs are not in the hall right now, and now they're going to have their cards on the ballot. It's not enough that you've violated the Rules -- you haven't given people the opportunity to exercise self-regulatory power, and that's why we now have an unaltered vote for the speaker's post, and I think you're doing such a good job for your colleague and, more than that, you want to approve the ballot by non-existent MPs right now. If there's a democracy of the democratic coalition, look at the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, there are several answers to these questions. First of all, I went to the hall several times and asked to raise my hands, who is ready to push someone or lift themselves to do it. Unfortunately, we did not see any hands, only after that did we raise the risk of applying for the post of Head of the Supreme Council. As far as the MPs are concerned, they're in the towers. I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to contact the deputies in the towers who have to come to the hall to take part in the vote. The word is given to the Orphans, the National MP to the Orphans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a suggestion that at the registration desks the deputies will receive the ballots after the presentation of the relevant certificates of the national deputy, since many new deputies are not known by anyone in the face, and that there will be no innuendo and suspicion, to issue the ballot only after the presentation of the certificate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u103	This is the rule of the Rules, Mikhailo Dmitrovitch, and I will say that after we come to the vote. This is a binding norm in our Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u104	The word is given to the national deputy Savechenko, a faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u105	Please give the floor to the national MP Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u106	Please turn on Tomenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address the members of the People's Party of the Regions with what I think you've delegated to the better of the better of the Counting Commission, and the members of the Counting Commission have a good opportunity to make sure that the living physically national MP is on the lookout for the bulletin. If it's a live national MP getting a ballot, I think all doubts will be resolved whether he is or not. So that's why the Counting Commission was created, and I'm absolutely convinced that you don't have to create problems here because of one Ivy who went to football. All the other 227 are in place. So let's start voting now, and the Counting Commission can quietly check the presence of all the national MPs who get the ballots and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u108	The word is given to the national deputy Alexei, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u109	Please give my word to my colleague Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u110	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u111	Alexander Valentinovich, Kilinkarov, Communist faction. I would like to clarify to you, as presiding officer, on what basis we extend the work of Parliament. In order to extend the work of Parliament, I think at least a question needs to be put to the vote. The evening meeting may be extended by 15 minutes or more. I therefore insist that the question of extending the work of Parliament be put to the vote in accordance with the procedure that is in place. It'll take at least two hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, we have begun the voting procedure with you, in fact, from the speech of the Head of the Counting Commission, and when the vote begins, whether in a recess or after the work of the Supreme Council, it happens. If you insist, we can put this to a vote, it's not a problem. Please, the national MP of Slaut. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u113	I pass the word to Lukyanov Vladislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u114	I understand that. Do you have a wish to speak? Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a performance. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had a discussion. And now we need to approve with you the ballot in accordance with the decision of the Counting Commission that we should vote on. The head of the Counting Commission has informed on this bulletin, and I ask, honourable colleagues, to put to the vote the approval of the ballot. [[I hear we're gonna do it now.]] Please. The right form. Please put to the vote. Turn on the "Council" system. Please vote. [[18:07:14]] For 225 Dear colleagues, I apologize, I apologize. There was a suggestion: to put to the vote the continuation of Parliament's work, when I am not mistaken, the People's Deputy of Kilincarov made this proposal for the time of the vote. I support this proposal and I'm putting it to a vote. Who is in favour of the vote, please include the “Council” system and vote. Please turn on the "Council" system. There's a vote. [[18:08:05]] For 226 Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. The Supreme Council decided to continue its work until the vote on the Supreme Council. Now I'm asking you to calm down, everyone will be able to say a few words. So, respectable colleagues. By factions, please show by factions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We have plenty of time with you. The Supreme Council has made a decision. That's why I'm asking everyone to work. I'll give you a chance to speak now, please. Kilincarov, National MP, please turn on the microphone of the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u115	Alexander Valentinovich, it was. The people's MP insisted that the cards of the people's deputies who were not in the room be seized. You have done nothing in this regard and, in fact, falsified the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that. Please, please, let's work quietly. I would like to remind you that such a card removal proposal can be made by a reckoning commission when it actually makes such a decision at its meeting. When the committee offers card removals or handing over a card, we will definitely do so. Dear colleagues, I ask you to repeat your vote so that we don't waste our time. Please, I'm asking you to calm down and now don't waste any time with us. Okay, let's vote. There's a question before the chairman. Please, National Deputy Levtsun. I ask you to calm down, turn on the microphone of the National MP Levtsun. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that my card didn't work, I pressed the pros button, my card didn't work. So there were 225 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u118	I see. I get it. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u119	Honorable Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues -- national MPs -- we have now seen, we have all witnessed, how the chairman has now falsified the vote. It's criminal, it's criminal, it's the law's premeditated criminal responsibility. I demand that the presiding officer be brought to criminal responsibility for falsification and replaced by the presiding officer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u120	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, since there have been such terrible accusations against the Chief, I ask that you vote again and approve the ballot. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please include the "Council" system, and we vote, we approve the bulletin. Please vote. [[18:11:52]] For 227 Thank you. I think all the charges that have been made to the Chief have been dropped by this vote. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention! The head of the Counting Commission said that in order for the Counting Commission to prepare ballot papers, it would be necessary to take a break until 19:00. Please, there's a break in 19 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The word is given to the head of the Counting Commission, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Shershun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u122	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u123	I'm sorry. Colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. The head of the Counting Commission provides very important information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u124	The secret balloting by election of the Supreme Council Head will take place on the second floor of the registration table. The ballot papers for secret ballots can be obtained at the registration desks at the presentation, of course, only by your parliamentary license. One hour is allocated to the vote. The vote will take place from 19.10 to 20.10. Remember, please. Once the bell rings, no one will let you vote. I repeat: the beginning of the 19.10. the end of the vote is at 20.10. There's a request to sign your ballot strictly in front of your last name. I would also like to remind you that under the Rules, the Ukrainian People's Deputy can enter the voting sector only once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u125	Dear colleagues! Thank you to the head of the Counting Commission. I repeat that the vote starts at exactly 7.10. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to take your seats, we'll continue our historic session. It's a shame that not all of our colleagues have waited for this moment, but we can't force the national MPs to work in the Supreme Council as every national MP should. Dear colleagues, you were all voting participants, there were attempts, you saw, to lift this vote, but it happened, and I want to give the floor to the head of the Counting Commission to the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u127	Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u128	We're working. We're working. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u129	The Honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues! Let me read out protocol number 2 of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 4, 2007. ATTENDANCE: Head of the Counting Commission, Deputy of the Counting Commission, Secretary of the Counting Commission, and members of the Counting Commission HEARD: On the basis of the secret ballot for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A secret ballot on the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine included the nomination of Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established. First. The number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized is 450. Number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots, 227. Number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote, 227. The number of invalid ballots is not available. His first name and his father's candidate, Yacenouk Arseny Petrovich. The number of votes cast as candidate is 227.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, I ask that you allow the Head of the Counting Commission to complete his report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u131	“No candidate supported” - no. In accordance with part one of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, chapter seven and articles 70 and 74 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Counting Commission decided to consider the elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yacenuk Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u132	Thank you. Thank you to the head of the Counting Commission. Any questions for your head? Thank you. Dear friends, it's temporary. Please don't give me any hints. At that time, the temporary Presidium finished its hard work. And I ask the newly elected Head of the Supreme Council to take a seat in the presidency. And the last thing I want to do, my fellow Members, is to say that the next meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on Thursday, and today's session should be closed by the newly elected Head of the Supreme Council. I'm asking him to do it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m1.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, if you don't mind, I won't take much time, literally a few words. First of all, I would like to thank our Block, our faction, the NH-NS faction, the BUT faction and the President of Ukraine for the promotion, for having passed this extremely difficult road, the first but decisive and decisive step. Second, it's going back to history somehow. The decision to hold early parliamentary elections was a voluntary and constitutional decision by the President of Ukraine, which was the first in Ukrainian history when the state went a democratic way through a complex instrument of pre-term nationalization. There were so many skeptics who said nothing would change. But today we proved it, it's already changed. Today we've shown that the coalition is not just made on paper. The coalition is created, it works effectively and will work. And the next step is to form a new democratic Ukrainian government. [[Applause]] At the same time, dear friends, I would like to point out this: we should thank our colleagues in Parliament -- both the Party of the Regions, and the Communist Party, and the Block of Lithuania -- for allowing us to vote and, in fact, conduct in these walls one of the first democratic and incorruptible, without political corruption, secret ballots for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I think it will be an expression of new Ukrainian parliamentaryism, if we all offer the actual opposition to the respective positions in the governing bodies of the Supreme Council. This is going to be democratic and European. [[Applause]] To conclude, I would like to point out that, despite the fact that half of the hall did not expect the election to be announced, but I plan to be the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, as a whole body. And the point is that every MP will be heard, every faction will have equal rights, and there will be no more than or less equal, and we will form a viable body, an efficient body, which is aimed at building Ukraine. Those who want to work will have the opportunity to do so. Anyone who doesn't want to work, we don't think they're on their way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Let me call tonight's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The next meeting tomorrow, Turkinov announced.
