ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, guests invited by the Supreme Council, representatives of the media! Please prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[10:01:14]] There are 259 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. And, dear colleagues, I announce a 30-minute recess. And then there'll be nouns in public.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u2	Have the meetings been opened? Oh, I'm gonna take a break, aren't I? Tell them to come to the hall. I was not in a hurry to announce it because I was waiting for Taras Viacheslavovich to come into the hall, and I wanted to greet him on your behalf with his birthday. [[Applause]] Today is Oleg Grigorovich Lukashuk's birthday, and we welcome him in absentia, and he's probably running a little late. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules, we have time to communicate and to announce the requests of the national MPs. I'll tell you what there are questions: Alexia Leluk to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the unsatisfying response to the facts of possible abuses and corruption by Colonel Mikola Zacivov of the Police, Jury Miroshnitzka to the head of the State Administration for non-information regarding the use of state funds and residences. Jurya Miroshnicka also addressed the Director-General of the International Children's Centre Artek. [[on the provision of information on the cost of travel to the International Children's Centre’s Camps]] And write down from the faction, please, who would like to make a statement. Now in individual order. Thank you. Stoyan, I take it, from the faction of the regions? Please. After him, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u3	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I personally want to go back to the topic of the imperative mandate, which is once again urged by opposition representatives. I would like to quote paragraph 9 of the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This paragraph states: “The Assembly reaffirms its position that the appeal of national representatives by political parties is unacceptable in a democratic state. [[imperative mandate]] Similar situations need to be removed from the general legislation." That is, they recommend even removing from general legislation, and our opposition colleagues insist that this be the case. Still, what the Parliamentary Assembly recommends is that somehow the MP work properly. I draw attention to: “In particular. that a consistent programme, responsible and committed party membership, as well as a scrupulous selection of party candidates, are the most effective tools for encouraging party and factional discipline.” Here's the principle. And I'm surprised that the opposition representatives, both Nemira and Bondarenko and Bilozore, and others were in the Parliamentary Assembly and they saw the members of the Parliamentary Assembly vote unanimously in favour of this paragraph. And what does the opposition say now? That the people who came out of the factions, you see, betrayed the people, because the people voted for these people to be on the lists of these parties. What they're proposing today, I've looked at the draft laws. They suggest that the people choose their party today, and then the people forget about these parties. Because then the party, more specifically the party leader, will have a monopoly on a particular MP. And then the party itself determines what, when, and how to exclude a national MP. That's an interesting picture: it now refers to the people, and then, if you support what the opposition offers, then the MP becomes the private property of the faction leader. The leader of the faction at all times for not saying so, not speaking out like that, not looking at the honourable lady one, being excluded. Or there's another one on the line, with more money and everything. Then such an interesting situation may be. Why, then, should a deputy meet, discuss a problem in the hall? They're gathering in factions, and they're gathering five people, like Alexander Frost, and we're sure he's going to be a speaker again, because he's got a great organizational talent, and they're coming up and they're saying, well, this faction is going to vote 100 cards and they're going to throw it on the table, and the other one says I'm going to throw 50 cards, and the other one says I'm going to throw 20 minus. So there's a card game going on. Because everything as well as we as MPs cannot say in this room that we must remain silent "against" or "against". We won't say "for" or "again" or "for" or "for" faction, because I don't want to be thrown out of the faction for my sharp tongue, either. So where you can see it is that the MPs who went through the lists that we've elected, but we all choose the right to be a deputy, we drive, we engage for ourselves, we come with those slaves, we own a leader. So once again, I want to say that, of course, we cannot vote in favour of an imperative mandate, first of all, because this is what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe says. Secondly, we can't vote because it's illegal. Thirdly, we can't vote because a deputy turns into a party leader. So once again, I ask you, dear colleagues, when these issues are discussed, it is not supportive. This position, I think, isn't just mine, my colleagues in our faction. What's more, when we're being exposed to opposition today, you see, we don't want to do a deal like this, we're doing a deal, but we're doing a deal to be ashamed of the whole world, to say that we're not democratic, that we're sorry. And the last question is, look, dear colleagues, why don't they leave the Party of Regions, and us 186, why don't they leave the Communists, why don't they leave the Socialists? Because they recruited ideologies deputies, in charge. And if the opposition recruited the wrong MPs, some really by ideology, the decent ones came out and entered the coalition, and the others bought seats and said, “We have come here to give us some office, and you do not. Either give up the money or we get out." It's trouble and opposition problem, pick people next time who have an ideology that has a state-of-the-art position that supports party politics and then you won't have any problems. Why do you want to use our hands to create such a system so that MPs are slaves and carry out your ambitions? I emphasize once again, we cannot vote for an imperative mandate, because it is non-democratic, unconstitutional and I urge everyone not to vote for those proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u4	Alexander Mikolaiovich painted such a cloudy painting that I thought so, and why is there even the Head of the Supreme Council. Right in one office they sat down and said it was the same, and they wrote the law right away. Alexandrovska. Cibenko, please, Peter Stepanovich. Which faction do you have? Ivan Sidorovich later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. In Ukraine, the principle is increasingly being realized, the objective justifies the means, and every day this is confirmed by the so-called unified position led by its leader, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine. By all means, seeking to achieve the traditional goal of the Prime Minister's chair for Mrs. Timoshenko. And there is no price they would not pay for achieving their goal. This has clearly confirmed the events of the last days and of the last hours. Information has emerged, and there is increasing evidence that the myocardial infarction and a number of accompanying diseases of Interior Minister Vasili Petrovic Tsuko have been documented by poisoning, and we are fully aware of the desire of relatives to bring him out of Ukraine today. A State that is unable to protect a minister, a prosecutor, not to mention a private citizen, is unlikely to deserve respect. This is followed by an experienced, ruthless professional hand of the special forces, the same Ukrainian Security Service, whose previous leadership is still suspected of poisoning President Viktor Yashchenk, the National Security and Defence Council, especially after he has been led by such idiosyncrasies as Plus and Turks. And, of course, I would say sadly well-known to the recent Secretariat of the President of Ukraine. This barbaric act is the revenge of a man, a citizen, a patriot for not serving the Travellers, but continues to be based on the Constitution and the rule of law. That's how Vasily Petrovich always worked. But this was particularly evident during the attempted seizure of the Attorney-General's Office, the Constitutional Court and attempts to subjugate the President of Ukraine's internal forces, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Internal Forces Act. According to the classic laws of the genre, travellers needed at least a drop of blood to justify their actions. This was a failed human resources base and the stop was behind the collision. All of Ukraine has seen guns being thrown by those whom. For whom the purpose justifies the means. This diabolical scenario has not been implemented thanks to the civil wisdom of Interior Minister Vasili Petrovic Tsusko, a clear and consistent position of the coalition of national unity and support for people. When human life ceases to be a deterrent in action. In achieving its objectives, this is already a limit to the moral and legal collapse of power. To which cynicism it is necessary to avoid knowing the state of the person in which he is, to organize another campaign against him personally and, above all, against the members of his family. [[He's in intensive care.]] Today, when this person is particularly difficult, on behalf of the faction, we wish him an early recovery and return to service. And one more thing I'd like to say today. Dear colleagues, today there is much talk that the National Unity Coalition does not comply with the agreements reached a few earlier. But I would like to emphasize that the agreements were essentially about two things: the slogan that the political crisis had been overcome and the date had been set. As for the date, I considered and firmly believed that the date was derived from the preparation of the necessary legislative framework. I mean, there's a horse in front of the cart, and it's clear that it's done absolutely consciously. Because it was based on the fact that when the date of the elections was announced, everyone would wave their hand at the legislative basis, all would wave their hand at the voter register, the need to amend the Constitution, the other regulations, and go to the polls. I would like to emphasize that the coalition of national unity follows the agreements that have been reached.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u6	Thank you. Boki Ivan Sidorovich, next to Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u7	I've got three minutes of mine. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, distinguished press. The presidential team and its subordinates have been televising her in the last days, all the way through the country, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Vasil Petrovich Tsushka. Even his arrest was being prepared, and only the report that Vasil Tsushka had put a severe heart attack into bed stopped the “wildered” political trifling of the dispute over him. About the cynical and aggressive pastoral environment of the President, it is clear that, without his consent, he does not abandon the intention of physically destroying a socialist minister who, at the cost of his health, saved Ukraine from civil war and dictatorship from carrying out the Yugoslav version of the scenario of known world centres. So let's think about everything in order that was going to happen. Consider the first and second unconstitutional decrees of Yushchenk concerning the cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council and the early parliamentary elections. By the way, the decree of April 26 declared the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. But without a quorum due to the inflammation of the craftsmanship of some judges and the pogrom of the President's court, he cannot officially announce it, even though the text of the verdict saw the world on one of the websites. Let us recall, in this connection, the oath of Yushchenka in Brussels that he will submit to any decision of the Constitutional Court. And let us think of the savage mania with which he did not act masculinely by crushing his oath. Yushchenka’s team launched a wild campaign, a discredit of the Constitutional Court, before which there were no claims. The president and his oligarchs and the service of Baloga, Timoshenko, have declared war on the Constitution, parliamentaryism, and the judicial system in the form of a fight against political corruption, although it has been known since the fall of 2005 that its main centre is in the presidential palace. Hotchko, as the lady of the glove, the president changed the heads of the courts, prosecutors, leaders of the power structures, without even stopping at the ridiculous two discharges from one position during the age. The bad kind, they say, has no shame. On May 24, it became definitive that Yushchenko and his oligarchic environment had embarked on a civil war. With the help of his armed guards under the direction of a less intelligent one, therefore, the Constitutional Court is occupied by the obedient executioner Hellet. On the same day, security under the same ubiquitous provocateur captures and blocks the Henprocurator’s office. Nor does he allow himself into the office of Saintoslav Piscoon, a procurator who cannot be released under the Constitution without the consent of the Supreme Council. It was an unheard-of act of armed capture and blockade of the state's highest legal institution, which is why it was already known that mass arrests and the internment of government members and all the disagreeable politicians would take place. It was the beginning of a real path of a bankrupt but greedy team, right against the party of civil war, which is being embroiled by Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Baloga, Lucenko and other hawks and rose up like a rich man, Vasil Tsushko. No one, by the way, gave him an order and was as cynical as ever, the Turk accused Alexander Frost of physically giving such orders because he was in the air on his way to Bratislava. Tsuko did not hide behind the backs of the army militia, did not pianist on television as a deserted and empty predecessor, and himself, along with the Berkutu fighters, liberated the Attorney General's Office from the armed helletians. Wise men and the police themselves have appreciated the minister’s conduct, for not every general will face a soldier in a moment of danger. Yuschenko, a Pharisee, then accused Tsushka of using force, but he did not say anything that he, the President, had blessed Helette for illegal actions in the Constitutional Court and the Henprocuratorate. The Minister of Internal Affairs did not allow himself to have a bloody fight against the legal vacchanalia in the country. And then we know everything, and the Yushchenko illegal order of reordering its own internal forces, and the betrayal of the commander of these armies to its minister, and the march-offs on Kiev of the most distinct formations of the internal forces, most of which have been stopped on the road by the State Inspectorate and our citizens, mothers and children, peasants, activists, socialists and other coalition parties. Basil Tsusko recognized the travel maneuvers in time and became averse to their plans, to organize a massacre in the capital city that would give rise to the illegal establishment of a state of emergency in the High Council. He was timely in the planning of the war party and stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u8	He's got three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u9	I think Ukraine will still be able to appreciate and honor its true hero, Vasil Tsushka. The son of a non - Sarabian peasant, the educator of the Socialist Party, a good, spiritual, and wise man, showed by his example how to serve the people and the country, democracy, how to defend Ukrainian statehood, how to take responsibility for the fate of the state. Yes, his great pure heart, like that of a child, has not endured a great and pure heart, like a tear, a pain for Ukraine. Yes, he was poisoned, helped to lose that good heart infection. But his will and courage, his civil conscience, saved Ukraine from adventurers, from civil war. And we, his colleagues and associates, wish the young quadruple twice more, our friend, the savior of the country as soon as possible to recover and return to the leadership of the interior ministry. And let us not rejoice in the minister of political prostitution, Lucenko, whose government has lost one billion 600 million dollars, as proved by the head review. KRU, and in full swing of the flourishing militia corruption, do not let the palms of all the helms, the bales, the teammates, jump away from the happiness that our comrade is now in the hands of the Esculaps. They are not allowed to become eagles, so they want to be among the crows first. Tsushka’s example will set many people on fire to fight adventurers for the rescue of Ukraine. In the bunkers and cabinets, the Presidential Party of War is still planning a monarchy of power in Ukraine. But Tsuko has shown that these plans can be countered if the builders of the political forces, civil society, the known masses of the people are grouped together to resist the adventurers and bandits of the great road, who today boldly occupy our political field. Ukraine will defeat them too, dissuade their lies and evil plans, and overcome the blinding of some people with glossy labels of all kinds of self - defenses as well. Love and other projects of big money bags will be on the road to building a rich, democratic, true European life. As socialists, we are convinced that one of those who will be a personal model to lead Ukraine on this building European road will be Vasil Tsuko, one of the leaders of national love and trust, the real source of Ukrainian politics. The fact that they want to drown him in the sea of lies today only raises the whole unconscionable bunch of Ukrainian losers. The honor of the Henprocurator is to investigate how a healthy, flourishing young interior minister has been proved to be. Let us all wish both the hero and the savior of Ukraine Vasileva a tip of health and strength for great and good works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u10	The word is Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich. Eugene Filindash takes his place, then Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u11	Eugenie Filindash, Socialist faction. Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, colleagues, radio listeners, tellers! In recent times, there has been a mass of conflicting information in the media on the health situation of the Minister of the Interior. Very often, this information has been distorted to the point of impossibility. All this time, I kept in touch with him. As far as doctors were concerned, he visited the minister at the hospital. I therefore consider it my duty to make the following statement. The information about the malicious poisoning of Vasily Tsushko is consistent with the reality. I know for a fact that Vasily Tsushko was poisoned. The organizers of this poisoning are also known, they are on a well-known street in the center of Kiev near the Supreme Council. We already know who planned it, when and how. The very reason for doing so is understandable. In a complex crisis situation, the Ministry of Internal Affairs remained the only force that did not respond to the Bank's strong pressure. Thus, with the help of his special forces, his head was given a heart attack. And the arrival of Vasily Tsushko in the Henprocuratorium, who is so angry with the opposition and the President, showed that we have a real Minister of the Interior who does not make a banal pear out of his work, does not hide behind his subordinates' backs, but takes full responsibility for himself, not only for every public official, but for every normal man. And many mothers of those young men who are now serving in both internal forces and other forces are already grateful to Vasily Zushko for not spilling one drop of their children's blood. It is feared that all the tons of dirt poured out on Tsusko from the President's Secretariat is nothing. That's why Vasily Tsushko paid for his health. We see this false information background that has been unfolding around the situation since some people passed. And I want to remind myself of the following. Had it not been for the decisive and legitimate actions of Vasily Tsushka, it was possible that the main branches of power in Ukraine today would have been the internal forces and the Office of State and that the elections would have been organized by the CEC, not the CEC, but by Mr. Kichtenko and his subordinates. At the cost of decisive action by Socialist leader Vasilia Tsusko was able to prevent a forceful scenario. Now I can't reveal all the details of this case. I suppose we will be able to provide more specific information to society in the near future. To anyone who says that Tsushko has never been in good health, I suggest we look at recent publications about how he ran away with his militiamen a few weeks ago. No healthy person will risk his health if he really has a problem with it. And I believe that we will have to appeal to law enforcement structures to investigate this case, to provide official information. Let us not forget the person who did not allow the development of the force option.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u12	Thank you. I have an offer. Let's do this a little bit in another key. I had a conversation with Vasil Petrovich, literally, 40 minutes ago on the phone. He really has a health condition, according to doctors, that fits his diagnosis. But he's definitely going back to work in the near future, and I hope we can say there in a week or two, and he'll start doing his job. Therefore, it is necessary not to use past times in reports of this kind, because, as the Odessa humorists said, “do not wait”, everything will be fine, and Vasil Petrovich will be at work as is needed today by Ukraine. I mean, instead of Volga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u13	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! On May 27, Ukraine sighed with relief because the three leaders of the State signed a joint statement demonstrating the absolute truth: No political dividends are worth anything if peace and peace are threatened. Remember, this was preceded by a series of seemingly accidental incidents in transport, the provocation of the Hellette with an organization of political attacks, the blocking of the work of the Constitutional Court by the President of the State, who by a number of unconstitutional decrees intervened in the work of the single body of constitutional jurisdiction, the appointment of executing judges to the positions of heads and deputies in the courts of general jurisdiction. The apopheus was captured by the State Office of the Henprosecutors and the President's decree, contrary to the Constitution of Mr. Shevchuk, the Attorney General. The country faced a real threat to civil conflict. In a statement by the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister made a commitment to act exclusively within the constitutional field. What do we have today? The President suspends the unconstitutional decree on the permanent suspension of parliamentary powers and then prolongs the decree every day. Please tell me, where, what is the constitutional rule, what is the rule of law of a similar way, who gave him the right to conduct himself with regard to the only legislative body in the state, as if it were the branch of the President's Secretariat? A man by the name of Shemchuk sits today at the Bank's Office of the President and, like the one who did this in the age-old age, signs, a co-worker who calls himself his orders and orders, calling himself the Attorney General of Ukraine. The work of the Constitutional Court is blocked. This is where the scandalous Mr. Hellettey appears periodically, who after several hours examines the state’s security in this room. The work of the courts of general jurisdiction is not unlocked. Dear colleagues, we are urged to have fair, transparent and democratic elections in the country. I think everyone understands today that the king is naked. And it's up to you and me, Parliament, to be a democratic state to be a Ukraine, or to be in the wake of authoritarianism. And not to let that happen is our job with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u14	Alexandrovska instead of Borschewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In my view, the causes created by the President and his orange environment of managed chaos are two main. I call them conditionally: the first is geopolitical and the second is skin subjective. The first, geopolitical, causes of the actions of the President and his orange environment are undeniable, as is the unquestionable strategic importance of Ukraine's territory for the Pacific and European hawks. The events in Ukraine show that the second reason I have defined as skin-substantiated is no less a strong factor in the actions of the President's immediate environment and of the orange politicians. It is not a secret that the establishment of a coalition of temporary investigative commissions has given us the opportunity to start serious work to cleanse our society of the depraved use of office. It was at the initiative of the communists, socialists and the Party of the Regions that temporary investigation commissions were established to investigate the abuses committed in the fuel and energy complex, which were allowed to spend funds received from the reselling of Krivorostali, including the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, whose chairman was elected, and the purpose of the commission was to investigate the activities of the EEC, the legality of the debt cancellation of the EEC and so on and so forth. You know all about it. I draw your attention to the fact that, in fact, today, the political situation in Ukraine has become so impossible for the work of our commission. Today, the Office of the Attorney-General is effectively destabilized by presidential action. For our commissions must address the law enforcement authorities in order to be able to obtain evidence supporting certain theories, we must analyse these documents, these facts and then report to Parliament in order for the Supreme Council to ultimately assess these facts. And if necessary, send them to the criminal, perhaps flat area for decision-making. Thus, those who understand the threats posed by the work of these commissions are this subjective factor, which, in the shadow of geopolitical interests, solves its skin, benefits-loving interests and acts very aggressively and vigorously, as we see it, including by the President's administration, which is surrounded by people who are interested in burying the commission. We are interested that no facts that are available to us today should be made public to society. I pay attention to this problem, and I consider it. That we should assess the situation and consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u16	Kunchenko, you can go from there, you can go from the rostrum. In you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u17	I'd like a word with you, please. Butt.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u18	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u19	Vladimir Oliynik. Dear voters, dear colleagues, I am criticizing the individual actions of the management of BUT for the reason that I have exhausted a completely internal-fractional discussion on this issue and the internal-party one. And that's why I have to turn from this rostrum both to the electorate and to the party. As we have written statements, this should be known both by the voters and by those who are members of the “Paternity” party. We wrote these statements as an element of pressure on the President, and we agreed that on April 18 these statements would be in the manager's safe for a while. [[B in m in s a l in]] How were the applications written? Individuals didn't write them at all, they didn't sign them, they write their names, they don't write their own, most of them don't write their own address. Now the question is, where am I going with this? There are requirements for the Law on the Recruitment of Citizens. This Law on the Appeal of Citizens sets forth requirements for making a request. Article 5 of the Citizens’ Appeal Act indicates that the address should include a name, a name, a parent and a place of residence. Most had not written about the place of residence. They're separate, they're not signed, they're not signed, they're not signed, they're not signed, they're not signed, they're not signed, they're not signed, What are the legal consequences of this appeal? We read: “Unfulfilled appeals shall be returned to the applicant with an appropriate explanation no later than 10 days.” Article 8 of the same law states in general that references that are not subject to consideration are non-signatories and addresses. I mean, there's a mechanism ahead of time when any MP goes to court and says, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but this is the issue of the Supreme Council, and that's why I'm going to challenge the decision to deprive me of my mandate as a deputy." If we've made this request to the citizens, and the citizens know it well, don't say any letters in the application, they will, then we should probably ask the profile committee to give a proper assessment. I'm still speaking on behalf of not those who are yelling, but I'm still speaking on behalf of those who are silent, but with me, I'm solidarity, solidarity, because they're afraid of leadership today. Now they need to know something. Did you know that one of the deputies did not write a statement? Why don't you go down to the personnel department and you'll know your last name? Did you know? You know. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you what. I'm saying it as a fact today. Next. Please tell us why. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u20	Who's in charge of extending his time? I vote, I vote. I'm betting on the vote to extend the time. One minute, please. [[11:27:32]] For the 250. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u21	The reason is that as long as there are closed lists, this theme will exist. Because we condemned the citizens for taking Greece and giving their vote, 20 bucks. But when five million people take the lead, and no one knows where the money is, we consider it to be a normal practice. So we met there — some bought seats, and others chose. If I am with one another, here are many of my brothers, participating in “Ukraine without Couchma”, then the second part, separate, took part in “Ukraine with Cuchma” until today. If we participated in “Ukraine”, “Resurrection, Ukraine!”, some of them and in the leadership are today BUTU, who took part in the “Shut up, Ukraine” action. And so these are intransigence positions that we can't bring to the common denominator today. It's about morality. Please tell me, I'll speak here, even with names. If the Constitution clearly states that you can't go from faction to faction, it's both illegal and immoral. If the traitors have come from us, if the Winsky has come to us, the patriot, if today is absolutely not in a constitutional way, not a statutory one, he has been appointed as the deputy head of the party, the deputy head of the faction, and in the five, you can call the sum. It's a political bribe, we have to judge both the phenomenon and the other, we can't match double standards. And the following is whether they know, because here again they will say "know" that by canceling the lists we have cancelled not all candidates. And the last thing that happens, for example, is we're going to be doing this, the release of some kind of missing product, at the expense of whom it's financed in general, we're going to be like this, and I'm going to go into a discussion about money. Dear colleagues, please tell me if anyone has any data that came up and gave you money, come out and call here the name of the bastard who offered you. If Julia Timoshenko is talking about what 120 million is allocated, so she knows about this accounting, someone must have suggested that you don't write a statement, go out and say, looking into it, John's deputy from the Regions told me about these things. Why are these facts not described as why you are misleading society? I'm not saying it's not there, but why isn't it publicized? And in conclusion, if there's any claim to production, it's the manufacturer's job to change all of that. If we've got the money and no one's saying it's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u22	All right, let's get this over with. Thank you, sit down. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down, sit down! Vassil Alexanderovich, please sit down. Would you like a word? Please. One of the party leaders wants to take the floor. Joseph of Viennese, please. It's for a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u23	I understand very well the essence of this political provocation, which has no word of truth, even for me personally. Because I didn't get out of the faction of Soccer, and I got expelled. And I'm not a member of the faction of Block Timoshenko, I'm the deputy head of the Party of Fatherland – that's the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u24	Let the man talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u25	The other one. The Supreme Council's Office has officially registered 106 applications from the Yulia Timoshenko faction and this is a fact that has been documented, and these applications have been sealed accordingly. So we're fully aware of what we're doing, we're not going to react to these political provocations, we realize that the time of all the political provokers is over and they're going to go away once and for all. And that's why we won't, let Alexander Alexandrovich vote on what we have to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u26	I'm begging you, please. I'm asking for your attention. The MP has used the line, please. The MP took advantage of the right of replication and that's why. It's his right. In view of my perceptive absence, I can’t react in any way. May I have your attention, please, sit down! We don't continue the discussion, it's not a matter of order of the day. Calm down! Did you get a last name? That's another thing. What's your name? Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u27	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, I want to tell the electorate and the MPs that the deputy of Ivanov Yulia Vladimirovna did not offer or give 120 million -- it was the first one, and he didn't have it. And the second. We are all well aware that the methods of politics, even though it is not politics, today is frank cheating, falsification and provocation, and we have all heard that today. I just want to say one thing, I am ashamed of the well-being of the people on television who waved the statements of the deputies if these statements were thus received. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u28	Calm down, please, calm down! We are planning a project of 3606, 3606-1, which is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the procedure for holding successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies whose terms of office have been suspended for a period of time]] I ask you to vote in favour of including it in the order of the day. [[11:35:43]] For 343 From the procedure they want to exchange thoughts, there can't be more than five minutes here if from each faction. Please log in with the procedure. Kirilenko. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, you may speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u29	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, we must either seek to achieve political compromise, or set up a football stadium in the hall with shouts, whistles and applause. We are convinced that you can do the second, and you do not want to do the first. In any case, we should vote today and only today those documents that are agreed upon by the statement. So, first of all, the agreed text of the Election Act is once. The agreed text of the Budget Act is today, not a month or two. And the decision to change the composition of the CBC is three. And that's what we have to do today, up to 24 hours. Now for the statement. I would like to reiterate that 168 statements by deputies from the faction "Our Ukraine" and BUT are registered in the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, according to a decree that you, by a parliamentary majority, have been approved, we ask that the presiding officer announce today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u31	We demand that today's chairman announce all 168 statements by Ukrainian national deputies from "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" who have filed statements of withdrawal from the faction. You know, they're all registered in the apparatus, they got the image. We have copies, we've started a serious procedure. You demanded a statement, we did it. Please make public all over the country that you claim, and remember that on Monday, after the convention, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be incomplete. Hence, laws must be adopted today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u32	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that yesterday, the National Unity Coalition of Ukraine decided, because the opposition refused to vote that all the bills that Mr. Kirilenko has just spoken about will be voted on in the morning. We're here to vote in the morning, we're ready not to vote, that's for sure. All these bills will be carefully considered and voted on. But I want to say something different now, to Mr. Kirilenko. You, an honorable young man, learn from your foolish habit of waving fingers at us, are you not yet such a great man to wave fingers at us, and, even more, listen, what kind of dictatorship is that?Oh, my God! Who's afraid of you? Today, or tomorrow, or Monday. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will work as hard as it is in the Constitution, not on your whims or whims of your Popandopalo, who issues new decrees every day!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u34	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u35	Thank you. Stepan Bubba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I support Jaroslav Suhogo, we shouldn't pay attention to these, indeed, statements and ultimatums of young unopposed Fuhrers. Let them wait until other times, when, indeed, they will be able to dictate to Parliament what to do. And Parliament must work in accordance with the laws, Parliament must work in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, we do not need elections above all, we must have elections secured by honest, transparent, democratic, which will indeed enable us to make a new, better composition of the Supreme Council! And what they offer us, let them at their assemblies, let them offer to their fellow party, and let them listen to them there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u36	Please. Wait a minute. Please don't cross the line of decency in a relationship. I realize that there is a lot of soul in the political debate between us and others. And I want to pour it all out. But that's not necessary. One way or another, we need to find an understanding, either now or for the future. We are represented by one subject of authority — the people. I would ask you to refrain from such epithets, which then are difficult to explain because it is rude. Please, Alexandrovska. Take the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u37	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! You and I have set up a plan for our work. We're on time for work today. And it's not our fault that the representatives of the orange factions did not know where or what they were doing. But that's what scares me. I see the masks are down now. This statement by Kirilenko shows that, so far, the words of peace that they have spoken of are agreement, consensus, agreement, compromises, need to be implemented; today, his tone shows that in fact, the intentions are completely different. We must not give in to provocation. We must really consider the electoral law, because in any case we are interested that any elections be held this year or in 2011 so that they are fair, legitimate and do not violate the rights of citizens. That's why I'm asking you to start work. There can be no budget for the talks before the President's decree, which should be based on the Constitution, to hold early elections. That's when we're going to spend the money on this election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u38	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u39	They will pass the word to the People’s Deputy of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u40	Viennese. I'm begging you, be quiet. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u41	I want to address the opposition MPs. Dear colleagues, I'm simply urging you to react in an absolutely calm manner to this hysterical thing that we see in the hall. She got it. But we came here for one. To ensure that fair and transparent elections are held, and to prepare the necessary documents. So I'm asking you not to react to this hysterical thing. And you, Alexander Aleksandrovich, please follow the arrangements under which your signature stands, if you are still a responsible politician in any way. There's a package, let's go after it: the Elections Act, the Budget Change Act, we solve the Central Election Commission situation, and as agreed, let's work this way. And you know very well that it's time to end this laugh.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u42	Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u43	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, we do not use personal images in political discussions. And today, we urge our coalition colleagues to vote in favour of those bills that are agreed upon, including your leader, Prime Minister Janukovic, and including the Head of the Supreme Council of the Frost. And we don't call you to anything anymore. And the fact that individual coalition deputies are nervous is only natural because these deputies are always used to getting dry out of the water, they've switched 15 factions for two calls, and now they're getting wet because they have to go to elections and they can't get support. And some people teach us to live here and forget that two years ago, the president took the job, biting his teeth, so that he could get this job in one central area. The area collapsed that they could not bring order to life, and now they are sitting and teaching life. You don't have to do that. Let's get our backs up and go to the polls.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u44	Thank you. Exchanged thoughts. I think everyone stayed by their side, but that's interesting and helpful. I just want to say about the procedure. Up to 24 or not, I hope that we will address all the issues in the due time allocated to Parliament. And to whom it is directed to sit there until such time or whatever, listen until then, but this is not an order to Parliament, these are instructions for individuals. That's what I'm talking about. Let's move on. Meeting announcements, Viacheslava Anatoliovich I then read to you this Supreme Council ruling quoting the Supreme Council Rules: “He personally submits a written application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Office, which is registered in the sector of registration, correspondence, the Department of Service Correspondence, the Department of Management of the Chief Officials of Documentary Security, and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, reports in writing about this to the chairman of the plenary session of the Supreme Council. So please, who made these statements, and why I say so, I'll explain everything, write me your report that I filed an application for an exit from the faction. Joseph Vicentiovich, you didn't pass, so don't laugh, you have a special regime. And then I'm going to announce, yes, Adam Ivanovich, who's going to be in charge of the meeting. This is in line with the requirements of the Rules. Why would I say that? Today I have written these documents for their registration in a manner consistent with the conclusion that there is an order that exists in the Supreme Council's apparatus, and I have found that there are certain statements that are without signatures, that there is a questionable content of documents. So please explain everything. I'm sure there'll be 150 statements there, no doubt, as I know, but I know there's also statements by those who have then written statements that they're withdrawing their applications. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm going to do it when I announce your last name. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. Eugene Ivanovich. Eugene Ivanovich! Sit down, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, sit down. And about the packets. In that sense, the word is so ambiguous. We don't have a packet talk application, there's a list of documents that need to be considered. We will consider them today. I think we're going to define this to match the proposal that sounded here, relative to fair, transparent and so forth. We've put the question day in order. You know that, unfortunately, two projects have been implemented after the month of work of the agreeing group. However, it was not possible to agree on the content definitively, and in some positions of the Elections Act, which adapt the existing law to the term of out-of-order elections, there are differences, there are 9-10 units. And there's obviously a discussion around it. But before that, I give the floor to the report from the first project, the author of which is National Deputy Oneschuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please listen to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! The bill that you are offered actually reflects to a large extent the consensus position of the working group on amending the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies, meaning that it should address the entire set of issues related to the holding of out - of - turn elections. In general, the bill amends 11 articles of the law in force, the left part of which will now be devoted to the analysis of my report, and refers to the amendments to article 102 of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies, which regulates the specific features of the conduct of out-of-order outfits. Let me take a closer look at these particular features, because they define the substance of the decisions that we need to make. As I said before, in the current Law on Elections of People's Deputies, the specialities of holding out-of-order elections are regulated by article 102, and in the draft Law that you are offered, by the way, is also reflected in the draft Law to be reported by a colleague of Matvienkov, it is intended to complete, more faithfully, the development of article 102 by six articles with badges corresponding to 1-6 pm. In particular, article 102 of this bill stipulates that in the conduct of the extra-operable election of deputies, namely, the title of the article, which refers to the general features of the preparation and conduct of the extra-operable elections in Ukraine, strong certificates are not produced or used. I pay your attention: this is due to the fact that the strict terms established by the Constitution -- 60 days -- are not technically allowing this tool to be used as an element of the electoral campaign at all. A second feature of this article is that the Central Election Commission uses all documents and forms of electoral documents that it has approved in the holding of the next election, except: the form of the following documents is not approved. So I'm not going to be counting them now for the sake of time savings. You can see that, your honors, directly in the law. Article 102-1 is a feature of the territorial organisation of the non-recurrent election of deputies. Let me draw your attention: there are features that are worth focusing on. First: ordinary polling stations formed to hold the last parliamentary election are used to conduct the extracurricular election. At the same time, the bill provides the opportunity to create new ordinary polling stations in cases where, from the time of the elections, for example, new micro-regions have arisen, people have settled down -- and the corresponding number of polling stations, from the point of view of those who live in the territory and have the right to vote, has gone beyond the maximum level established by law, and therefore there is a need to divide the relevant polling area into several, at least one, into another. Next thing you know, it's article 102 with a 2 prim badge.: the characteristics of the election committee in the extra-optimal election. Well, quite a novelty of this article is that the candidates for the District Election Commissions are from the MP factions that were formed in the current convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, each parliamentary faction submits its nominations on condition that the commissions form in parity. So each faction submits its candidatures in equal numbers from each faction separately within the representation of the coalition and the opposition. Thus, district election committees are formed on parity — opposition and coalition. In doing so, it is assumed that the rotation of positions in the constituencies, I mean management positions, if a coalition representative heads a commission or a commission, is the opposition's secretary. With regard to the characteristics of the formation of the electoral boards, the number of candidates included in each faction's electoral commission is determined by the Central Election Commission to ensure equal representation from each faction. The special features of the compilation and refinement of electoral lists in the successive election of the national MPs — article 102 with badge 3 of your honorary colleagues — I draw your attention to this article, which was quite actively debated by the working group, since it is directly related to the application of a fairly discriminating question related to the State Register of Voters. Thus, as the law stipulates, by the way, in both texts, these are authentic texts that the compilation of lists of electorates for the extra-operable election of deputies is carried out with the use, attention, honourable colleagues, basic mechanisms and procedures defined by the Ukrainian Act on State Register, in order and in particular by this article. In particular, the compilation of electoral lists in ordinary constituencies is carried out, as was the case, among other things, and during the holding of the next election, the working groups of the electorate, which will be formed accordingly by the executive bodies of the city councils, district and state administrations not later than on the fifth day from the start of the electoral process and act exclusively until the day of the election. At the same time, honourable colleagues, electoral lists in ordinary constituencies are made up of working groups on the basis of the general electoral lists provided by the Central Electoral Commission, using the electoral lists in ordinary constituencies on the basis of which the vote was held in the last election of deputies in a form approved by the Central Election Commission. The relevant local executive authorities and local self-government authorities are ensuring that appropriate archiving agencies, working groups, are provided with appropriate copies of the electoral electoral lists without electoral signatures, and I would like to stress this, without the signature of the electorate who were used in the last election of the deputies, the national deputies, and have been transferred for preservation in accordance with the requirements of the Electoral Act. The corresponding electoral working groups include and provide information provided by the following bodies. First, it is the appropriate district authorities of internal affairs, the appropriate district authorities of the Ministry of Justice, the representatives and directors of the military’s local commissions, the commanders of military units, the leaders of the appropriate authorities of care and care, the managers of the relevant district health authorities, social protection agencies, rural, rural, urban, electoral leaders, who are constantly unable to move on their own and who need the appropriate opportunity to vote directly at home. In other words, respectable colleagues are talking about the fact that information is involved in the compilation of voter lists, and this is, by the way, provided directly by the state. The Electoral State Register Act leaks all information from authorities and institutions that have direct or indirect involvement in the determination of the demographic status of Ukrainian citizens, and in this way it is possible to specify the electoral lists in detail and without error. In doing so, the electoral working group refines the voter lists using the information that I have just referred to. No later than 20 days before the election day, the working group produces two copies of the list and passes them on to each regular polling station. As provided for in the current law, I mean, in the current law to ensure public control over the process of assembly and the authenticity of the electoral lists, the Central Election Commission creates control groups. An important feature of this law is also that respected colleagues who vote in foreign polling stations are executed only by citizens who are in consular accounting. A special feature of this law is that, in the conduct of non-separate elections, there is a declaration on the property and income of candidates for the election. The Central Electoral Commission is not available. A special feature is that there is a significant refinement in the way the agitation is carried out. In particular, the time for agitation is halved, and the state is funding the State Budget only the relevant information that is being disseminated on the central channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u46	Give me 30 seconds more.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the law also provides for the specific use by the Central Electoral Commission of appropriate purchases for the conduct of electoral commissions, for which the relevant commission, inter-ministerial procurement commission, is established by the Cabinet of Ministers, and which establishes, at the proposal of the Central Electoral Commission, the appropriate procurement arrangements for the holding of the successive and successive elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u48	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. The question is to the reporter? Six minutes for questions and answers. Please write down who wants to ask a question. Jakimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u49	I'd like to give Stoyan a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u50	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u51	Dear reporter, paragraph 3 of article 101. It's about what he participated in, he was a candidate for the MPs, he was in the election with political power, he was accumulating, and he turned out to be 101 on the list, because 100 went through. You take a decision from a party or a block, you throw it away, not just one of it, but you can trim the whole tail, you can do it, you don't have a reserve. And the next day or the next day, about ten, fifteen, twenty went to the government, perhaps not in your opposition, because you will not be in the majority, but most of us will go to the government. And what, then, will be done to fill the deputies? So explain to me how it's going to be, if you've got this ghost coming, throw everybody out, like you're doing right now, and then you don't have any spare lava, and you have free space. How then, will the new elections be, or how, can I not understand how a lawyer, explain it to me?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. First of all, it's not a whim, it's the will of those national MPs who are elected according to the electoral law and the Constitution. And each one of them has the right to order his own right, which he has received, is the first thesis. Thesis number two. The subject of the electoral process is the party. We've talked a lot about national MPs here, but the election law that we're going to pass with you defines the subject of the electoral process — a party or a block. Accordingly, this body, this subject, is legally authorized to make decisions regarding the expulsion of deputies from its list, including there is no prohibition on the expulsion of all deputies. These are the risks of a party, the subjects of the electoral process, as far as it is represented in the House of People’s Deputies, much or no, that is the will of the subject of the electoral process. Thank you. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u53	Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u54	Garbage, Party of Regions. Mikola Vasilovich, I have a question for you, please tell me, when the bill under your signature was handed over to the people's deputies? That's the first question. The second question, if introduced today, does the procedure for introducing a bill to the Supreme Council violate my rights, as a citizen, as a national MP, to the right to amend? Also, does article 88, article 91, second paragraph, article 93, article 96, part three, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u55	Thank you for asking, although it would rather be addressed to the Chief of Staff at the meeting. I can only inform you of the following that the bill was submitted to me for registration yesterday at 5.30 p.m. When you got it, it wasn't really a question for me. But, in fact, you know, in the people they say, "if they want to, if they want to, if they don't want to do something, they're looking for reasons." And I think that's exactly the problem in this plane.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u56	Mikola Vasilovich, on the other hand, then they do, and if they don't, they're looking for reasons. Yes, please, Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u57	Dear reporter! The point is, in your bill, the candidates for the district district commission are submitted by factions. As I realized, when the working group and you worked with it on these issues, then it was 90 articles of the Constitution, that was understandable. But you're eliminating two factions now, and as I understand it, only the members of the commission will now stand out of three factions. And the BUT faction and the faction "Our Ukraine" will have no representatives under this bill in district and district election committees? Give it to me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u58	Dear colleague! Even if you take that risk, it's a risk that factions deliberately take is the first. But he's not really here. I'll tell you why. Because if you read carefully the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after the fact that there is a report that a faction is not represented in Parliament, there are still 15 days that allow for the possibility and, in general, the anticipated possibility of the faction being reinstated in one way or another. So if the elections are held in a 60-day term, as the President has actually announced, there is no threat, and I thank you for taking care of the interests of the opposition factions, in fact there will be no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u59	Thank you, too. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u60	The Alexandrian Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Nikolai Vasiljevic, you have made very serious changes to articles 93, 94, 96 of the Electoral Laws, according to which the commissions of the District and Central Electoral Commission may recognize the outcome of the elections even though the number of district elections has been declared invalid. Does this mean that if elections were to take place only on the district commissions of the Lviv, Ivano-Frankov areas, while others would be declared invalid, the Central Electoral Commission, i.e. the district central, would recognize the outcome of the elections only as a result of the vote in those areas. Does your proposal sound right in the Law?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, this position is agreed upon, by the way, by the working group, and I have not yet had the opportunity to look closely at the bill passed by my colleague Matvienkov. And why did such harmony arise? The thing is, we know that elections are taking place in the districts. That's where citizens vote, and there's results, and there's a will to be made. The district is just some territorial union that is being calculated for the organization of the elections. But as you can understand, there is no voting in the district. Thus, regardless of what he thinks and what the District Commission wants, the citizens’ will has taken place in every district and it is their duty only to calculate mechanically what they are called to reveal the results of the vote in each district. But I'll read it to you, I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u62	Please do not continue the discussion, so that people will hear what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u63	Then I will read an article that is appropriate to strengthen what I have said. “Circular Electoral Commission”. Article 93: “Circular Election Commission.” I'm going to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u64	Thank you. Have a seat. There's a suggestion that the second author will speak immediately, and then we'll both discuss the projects. Right? And I'd like to ask your permission to announce a recess after making a decision on this matter. There is no objection, then I will not put to the vote and I believe that everyone wants to do just that. Sergei Matvienkov, co-author of the second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. We, the group of authors and the working group that drafted the bill, and I, from their faces today, will say so, the collective work that we have worked out over this time. This work was based on the most basic and fundamental principle that the coalition, which agreed to hold early elections, is tasked with conducting these elections in a fair and transparent and open manner. The law must be amended accordingly so that the elections can be held in an honest and open manner. I will not now dwell on articles that overlap with the previous law that my colleague has reported, that is to say, time-adaptation, and the 60-day time-limits for elections, they make their adjustments. Basically, this is 102, I'm not going to stop at them, they're exactly the same. I want to focus on the articles that we have and the contradictions that we have in our bills and the differences that we have. Unfortunately, many of our differences have arisen because we have recently observed the denial of many of the laws and legal norms that we now have in force in Ukraine. And we had to put in protective elements to really make elections fair and transparent and open this time. And second moment. Many of the things that are reflected in the law are only because there is no trust on either side of it and on the other side. And this has also largely defined the ideology of this law. In terms of the contradictions and differences in the laws, the most important of them is the voting mechanism at the home of the elderly. We have seen this painting with you in recent elections, when, unfortunately, the elderly who wish to fulfil their constitutional duty cannot, unfortunately, reach the polling stations. The procedure set out in previous laws did not allow them to do so in full, to fulfil their obligations to the State. Unfortunately, as a result, we have observed many deaths occurring at polling stations. We have therefore drawn up this rule in a way that would simplify the scheme and enable the elderly to vote at home. The second distinguishing point is that elections are considered to have taken place if a vote of at least 50 per cent of those on the ballots has been adopted in Ukraine. And the trouble here is not that this rule needs to be strengthened, but the problem is that there is no trust on the one hand. This rule has been introduced in order to prevent elections from taking place in one Ukrainian territory. If we are to say that the elections should be united, if they are to say that after the elections we should be a united team, they must pass throughout Ukraine as a uniting element. There can be no such thing as a 15-20 per cent vote or a 15-20 per cent vote, and then the results of those elections wave and say that it is the will of the entire Ukrainian people. I think this rule should be particularly applied, and it, I think, is well written. The next point is article 101, part 3, which has already been discussed here and the issues raised here. This is, above all, a mechanism of rejuvenation. For that reason, we have introduced and annulled part 3 of article 101. In the event of elections, so that one of the political forces that has raised 150 votes has not blackmailed Ukraine further, the whole parliament has not blackmailed that, for example, it will not make its own, will not swear, will not take an oath, Parliament will be ineffective and we will be forced to work in Ukraine without Parliament, and Ukraine will be on the verge of, we will say so, subsequent elections and political chaos. The elections are being held to declare, confirm the will of the Ukrainian people, the elections have been held, we have received Parliament, this Parliament must work. This is one moment. Second moment. From the point of view of the vote, the MP, the return, the elector, not only for those who passed through, votes for those people who are included in those names that have not passed. And today, to say that the subject is only a party, that is the wrong approach and the wrong approach, the subject is the person representing the party. And by voting for the person who didn't make it to the front of the list, some part of the population of Ukraine voted in favour of this party because it was included there, or vice versa, because there were people there. Then give these people the right to withdraw silently from their ranks, to say so, a list, or to betray the person required, at least, to do so improperly, wrongly and unfairly. So we're proposing 103 articles, in 101 articles, part 3 cancel, so that we don't then face the blackmail that we have today and that we face today, when we create an organ, it has to work. Next moment. The establishment of article 102 means the establishment of lists, one of the most difficult problems our group has encountered in the drafting of the bill. We have taken full advantage of the mechanism to be used in the establishment of the register. This is practically, let's put it this way, led to the establishment of a register and to the establishment of lists on this basis. In principle, these two parts, they coincide with our colleague's project, and I stress once again that we have written out here as much as possible a moment that would allow us to create lists as transparently, fairly and openly as possible, so that we can exclude those elements when we were missing whole neighborhoods, whole streets. People came, they had to go to court, look for themselves. So if we're talking about honest, open, transparent elections, then lists are the basis for honesty and transparency. Second moment. Article 102, part 3, paragraph 18. Our bill contains an element that provides for persons who have crossed the border of Ukraine, i.e. have left Ukraine, are reported to the district commission and the district commission makes adjustments accordingly. I know that this paragraph has been taken ambiguously by our opponents, and I know what criticism he is taking to this day. But I want to make it clear why this paragraph was introduced. Persons who have crossed Ukraine and are not in Ukraine may not participate physically in the vote. We know the number of persons outside Ukraine. And we know how the elections took place. When a person went abroad on a foreign passport outside Ukraine, the same persons on his civilian passport were eight times the same, and they voted. And there was an election, or election results of 80-90 per cent, knowing that there are no people in this population and half who are now or are living here. That is why we have left this paragraph and insist that this paragraph should be, and it should be included here. Next moment. Voting abroad is also an important moment. But that's where our opinions match. And here we are also talking about that only those persons who are in consular custody should vote abroad. That is, persons who are officially outside Ukraine. We have also found a common understanding, here we have common points of view that we will not use upholdings. It is also a mechanism that has created a certain element of falsification, a certain element of the distortion of elections, and we have also, so to speak, ruled out this element. In fact, much of what I've told you is the main contradictions that are in the two laws. We propose to adopt our bill. The only thing I want to do is add and make a single amendment. The fact is that our daily bill 3607, and in order not to consider it, we are proposing that the bill be considered by the group of authors who have introduced 3607, to consider the possibility, and if your will is to include an additional article 102 of the following paragraph 11. “In addition to the election, a candidate may not be registered as a candidate for a deputy whose mandate as Ukrainian national deputy has been suspended for a period of time in accordance with article 81, part six, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” I'll tell you, it's not Nigeria, I'll answer you. If you have come to Parliament to work and if the Ukrainian people have given authority to work, you should work instead of looking for ways to get a portfolio. And when you get a mechanism that turns out to be a part of the MPs, you come and go, you get insulted, you knock on the door because you didn't give them your wallets. So if you'll excuse me then whatever the situation is, I think if a person voluntarily gives up his job, then he doesn't want to do the job. If this job doesn't suit him just because he's not sitting there or he hasn't got any leverage, then he doesn't need it. So this is my proposal, you want to vote, you don't want to vote, but I suggest, so to speak, this is a proposal to consider. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u66	The question is to Sergey Anatolyovich? Sign up. Bubbles. Baranowski instead of Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u67	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Your Honor, I like your bill as a whole, and I think it has to be done by both sides, because today, in the coalition, the other opposition, the situation is changing tomorrow. And we have to write about the election, not the situation that is today, but write it out for the future, and you do it and it impresses you. At the same time, I'd like to confirm that if a deputy doesn't want to work and get fired on an article, then say, any business, any businessman, taking someone to work, and if he's working badly, he's getting fired, is he getting fired, is he going to take him to work for the second time? Of course not. Why the Supreme Council should be so sure that you can take him to work 17 times, he doesn't want to work 17 times. So the article 102 you were talking about must be. And one more thing. When we're talking about exclusivity. After all, we've given the C.V.C.C.C. and the courts a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u68	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. I've made my point. And the fact that part 101 of paragraph three concerning the renaissance of lists is clearly what we have included in the body of the law, in part two, I have expressed my opinion, because this is also the opinion of that group of deputies who submitted the second bill, I believe that I am still stressing once again the trust expressed by the people in order for the MP to carry out his functions in order to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u69	Lapin. I can't hear you. Ah, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to the two bills and I am, you know, surprised to see why the opposition has been dragging the dictatorial points into the laws: that is an imperative mandate, that is, cutting off the circumcision, scrapping all the lists. Why do they do it that they're so afraid of those people who will go to elections with them, that they'll almost fall. Well, they won't. So, Sergey Anatolyovich, I fully support your bill, it's very democratic. But I have a question. I don't support your item to make lists right now. Because we know, because if they made the lists, 160 made the lists. They should not take part in the next election, and what will we then do without opposition? So let's take this thing off. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u71	Thank you. I believe that each political party has sufficient reserves to compile its lists to be presented, and when I think that if a person, so to speak, did not go to work again, but if he was offended that he did not have a portfolio, I think that the electorate should have thought about it, and he has no moral right to go again in order to get the same voter's attention and load, so to speak, the attention of the people and the use of budgetary means to hold these elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u72	That's it. Eugene Ivanovich, please calm down! Ask him a question, he'll answer you. Please. Where's Lapin?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u73	Sergey Anatolyovich, let me!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u75	Sergei Anatoliyovich, there are a number of provisions in your bill that are proposed to give the law retroactive force, especially when you speak of excluding part of the third article of 101. But the national deputies and parties that went to the elections in the sixth year determined the legal regime for their activities, including the possibilities for re-establishing the list, resulting from the supremacy of the law. Now you're suggesting, essentially by making changes, that you change it. I mean, if you talk about, although I don't support this idea, in principle I don't support that this item becomes valid for the next vocation of MPs, it could still be debated, but changing the legal regime for electoral subjects who have already passed the election is just from the point of view of law, well that's nonsense. An explanation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll tell you one thing. We have a mechanism for transitional provisions. This law takes effect precisely in order to hold successive elections, out of turn elections to be held, and it enters into force, once the mechanism for holding successive elections has entered into force. So there's no reverse force here, there's no mechanism here. We're not trying to catch you on a mouse, there's a little bit of the wrong approach, you don't think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u77	Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u78	I want to clarify the situation. You remember that in the working group, First Deputy Prime Minister Azarov admitted that such information that you want from the border forces is actually not available to them, and this is a direct violation of the citizens' right to have information about their person. So you're already giving up this position, which was absolutely obvious, that you're demanding in the law what you can't do. And another situation: the re-establishment of lists. Well, against that, it's a very simple other fracture: just parties form a list of not 450 people, but maybe 200. It's 190, and 10 reliable people at any time, becoming MPs, do what we did. So you understand that it looks a little bit observable, and especially the last position -- it directly contradicts the Constitution, because the Constitution clearly states what causes a person to be able to fly, where they can't fly. This is the absolute norm of the Constitution, and you surprise me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u79	Thank you. Well, you never surprised me at all. So I'll say one thing. First. With regard to the information of persons crossing the border. To date, such information is available, and such information exists. Why it frightens you, I know, I guess, because up to six million people are constantly outside Ukraine, I reiterate that their passports are constantly voted on in a certain territory of Ukraine. That's the first one. Therefore, we understand and say that if elections are to be fair, let us play an honest, open, transparent game. And you don't have to overbid. As far as Part Two is concerned. I'll tell you one thing: in any case, party shushing might be possible. And the mechanisms you're offering today are only saying that at any time, people like you will always find, like, excuse me, keeping party members on lists, threatened, threatened, threatened and manipulated. And we're talking about another: that the people who went through the lists should understand where they came from, why they came and why they came. And that's why we want one: that the party top, the party elite don't touch it, sorry about some levers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u80	Sergey Anatoliyovich, it is good that the microphone was turned off at this time when you finished your phrase, for some things could logically be connected. Please report complete. Are they willing to express themselves? From the factions, please sign up. Individually now, please. I'd like to ask you, wouldn't you be offended if we had limited time to discuss this issue for, say, 25 minutes? Yes. I'm on my way. How many deputies have been registered? Is there no objection? Then I don't vote, I think I agree with this procedure. Belarus of the Timoshenko Block, please. I'll take you to the rostrum, Oleg Grigorovich. Oleg Grigorovich, please come to the rostrum. There is a proposal after five factions for a representative of the President to speak. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u81	Dear head, dear colleagues. Looks like Friday's a good day, and we should send our boat to some shore. The time is right, we can't run this political boxing here without end, because our people, our citizens, are expecting something else from us. I've got 106 statements from the National Deputies of the BUT faction, here they are. And the one who doubts is the one who. Don't rush to say "Good-bye!" because you'll get off the boat and drown. And those who doubt it can go to the personnel department, to the registration department, read these statements by letter. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u82	These are copies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u83	These are copies. I want to talk about something else. Shut up, listen, it's good for you, Dry. I think that the two amendments to the Elections Act are very serious. First of all, we must give up all fantasies, take every approach to accept what is desired for reality and, without any attempt to force, rape our Constitution. The first item is the right of a citizen to choose, to run for office or to be promoted through party structures and to be chosen is the sacred sovereign right of every citizen, and no one has the right to claim that right. So I would call on the authors of the relevant texts and projects, especially if they have an industrial grasp and no legal education, to read the Constitution again and again and to stop at the edge of this failure. We're offered here to set the electoral threshold of 50 percent minimum. It's also a violation of the Constitution. The state gives citizens the right to make their choice, but the state or government or parliament cannot force a citizen to vote. With regard to bills for citizens who are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u84	Thank you. Garbage from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, when we look at these two bills, we've been able to get to know them for this hour. I think most deputies today have just received this bill, which is very important for our society and for our political situation today. So I'm counting on you not to accept such a bill in such haste. What's more, we've heard from our colleague, Mr. Olinick, who's actually discovered the political machinations that are taking place in our opposition. So, I am counting, Alexandre Alexandrovich, of course, that I will support the bill that was proclaimed here by Mr. Matvienkov. But I want you to listen to this situation. Given that in the last two months there have been gross violations of the Constitution, of the laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the national deputies, the Supreme Council rules and other legislative acts that are governed by our State today are being violated, I propose that I do so. Once again, the fact that the Olinik accuses political corruption of our opponents of putting to the vote, as this law is very important, and allowing for free voting, using article 37, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fourth Rules, which states that the Supreme Council can use secret voting on such matters. In this way we will allow the people's deputies from our opponents who do not share the view of today's situation in our country to allow them to express themselves by secret ballots. And then we're going to see with you whether they're ready, whether they're "for" term elections, or whether they're "against" term elections. This is the very main test. Because today, when there's a question, a very big question that's been raised by most of the President, by his Secretariat, we've never, ever seen a President of Ukraine in this room, who had to explain it to us, because we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. And for some reason, we go to and from or to promote illegal activities on the part of the Secretariat. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I very much ask you and I'm trying to ask my question that under this law, as he essentially eliminates today's legislative branch of power, use article 37 fourth on secret voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u86	Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u87	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies, present, I recall an interview with the leaders of the BUT faction after the convention, at which they formed lists of the vocation today, when they said that the heart rejoiced, which on the list of people, the elite of the nation, and so on, they were in every conviction. So today we've seen how they're convinced of their lists, and, really, I've seen most of the faction's representatives, they really want to work, but their leadership wants social shocks, they want power, they want to go to every deputy of theirs and they're "murdering" them today, I'd say, "Jesuits kill," they're doing it today. But what surprises me more is not only that they today, leaders, do not trust today’s factions, but they do not trust those future members of the list in which they will be included in the elections that may take place. They are already legally establishing mechanisms for this “Jesuit killing ” of their prospective members on the list. Then it seems like the question is whether it's political power today, whether you're some kind of business corporation. In my opinion, we today have not only political factions in our Parliament, but we already have appropriate sects, whether it's the White Brotherhood, or some other fraternity, with the laws of the sect, but not the political party of a democratic party today. So, of course, as a result of this, I cannot support the bill that was presented by our honourable deputies from the opposition. Because it's a bill, once again, that doesn't give democracy to the development of a party or a faction, and it's meant to legitimize the activity of a sect. So, of course, as a socialist, I am supporting the democratic, I think, law that socialist Matvienkov presented to us today. We, a party of democratic socialism, want to build Europe in Ukraine. And what we see today is that this law just makes it possible to develop every political power, it enables every national MP to realize their capabilities, it gives every political faction today the best opportunity to show itself as an electorate, how it defends their rights, how it fulfills its promises that were made during the election campaign. So I urge everyone to support the Matvienkov bill, it's pretty democratic, and that's exactly what we're going to do, and we're going to confirm the signatures of our leaders that have consolidated the protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u88	Simonenko, please, from the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I believe that the time has come and the early elections must determine how Ukraine will proceed. Therefore, the project, which was presented on behalf of the coalition by Sergei Anatolevich Matvienkov, provides an answer to questions of concern to society today. I would only like to draw the attention of our voters to the following: elections in Ukraine's years of independence are constantly accompanied by improvements, falsifications and sophisticated technologies for electoral fraud. From the mere deception of voters, populist statements have moved on to the establishment of a state system for the falsification of elections. To that end, you understand that the administrative resource has been improved, and he has moved from what the representative of the authorities has been saying to the dictatorship, to intimidation, to blackmail, to what they have imprisoned in detention facilities and tried to humiliate human dignity. During this time, the technology of information-gathering technology has improved, and the media has become a tool in the hands of these impure politicians, who have perverted society and tried to kill the human soul. Over the years, various criminal helicopters have been improved, district commissions have become certain organized crime groups, because I don't want to hurt anyone, I'm talking about the technologies used to do this. “Electronic shocks” were coming across Ukraine, as e-stamps in the form of a server changed the political person and the political map of Ukraine. Our citizens exiled abroad in poverty and injustice and their voices were used here because of lack of border control and control over how they voted outside. And this is not a complete list of the crimes of the regime that Yushchenko and his team are trying to implement today in the early elections. After the election, the Supreme Council would seem to be improving the law and the authorities would constantly improve the technology of deception. What threats, if we do not adopt the law on behalf of the coalition, will Ukraine be accompanied? This is a real threat to the falsification of elections as the basis for the usurpation of power, and an orange team goes on to do so. This is the establishment of a nationalist dictatorship in the State. What bottlenecks do we propose in this draft law on behalf of the coalition, at the request of our citizens, and a thorough analysis of the status of the elections? This is the introduction of a register, i.e. a live list of Ukrainian citizens, that vote abroad is only those who are on consular records, that is the exclusion of the server, that is the resilient coupons, that exclude them from use, that is, those who have crossed the border, that is, respect for veterans and exclude the possibility of being removed, or prevented from being elected, that is 50 per cent of the appearance of elections, that is the formation of district and district commissions. And, of course, this is an exception to the translation of party responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u90	Thank you, Grigorovitch, please. Onichuk, please, instead of Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u91	Oneichuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, four positions that we cannot support from the coalition bill. First. The pass barrier is 50 percent of the voter turnout. In fact, if this rule is introduced, the bill should include the introduction into the Criminal Code, just as it was in Ukraine at the time, criminal responsibility for appeals to the boycott of elections and boycott of elections. It's not there, and if it's not there, we can't view your approach as democratic and sincere. Thesis two. Holdcordon. Data submitted by the State Department to the election boards are given three days before the election. And you know very well that the main mass of those who leave temporarily returns on Friday, Saturday, to vote. So they're mechanically out there, and it's no longer available because it's only on Thursdays. That's all I'm commenting on. Voting at home. The working group actually worked and found a mechanism, Sergey Anatolyevich, to allow people who, for various reasons, including the elderly, cannot vote, to go to the polling station. You know that among the institutions that report their information to the electoral commission are health and care and care bodies that should provide this information in advance. A separate list is made up of people who, for various reasons, cannot go to the elections on their own. It's a mechanism, we've agreed to it. Instead, he's ignored and he's offering to just let everyone who's sitting, sorry, smoke their foot at home, that I want to vote at home without any reason. And the final position. 101 article on the expulsion of national MPs from voter lists. It is obvious, and I stress once again that this is not a democratic norm, since the current law provides for the right of political parties, subjects of the electoral process, to exclude candidates from their list of candidates for election, election, and election. We're taking something, and here's the thing after the election, we're trying to solve the political problems in a way that we won't allow it. It must be decided in a different way, by adopting a new Constitution, where appropriate mechanisms were to be provided to ensure that Parliament's authority was preserved in certain cases. To solve this problem by the Electoral Law is utopian. This rule, first, is unconstitutional, and secondly, as I've already said about it, arguing with Sergey Anatolyevich, cannot be given the quality of the reverse force of the law. And last but not least, dear colleagues. Obviously, in fact, the working group found compromises, found compromises. And it's just that it's not a wish, unfortunately, that maybe it's made possible by some kind of political process to come up with a consolidated version of this bill. We were left with essentially one non-conformity, that's Holdford, and maybe to a lesser degree the voter turnout. Today, as you can see, differences have become much more and, frankly, this, well, gives a reason to say, rather pessimistically assess the possibility of adopting a consolidated draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u92	We've got all the representatives or not from the faction. No, no, and then you'll be performing. But before that, the President's representative, I announced it. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please. Huh? What? But no one threatens anyone, they threaten themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u93	Dear Alexander Alexander! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Let me give you the President's position on the bills that are the subject of your consideration. First, I would ask that, the President of Ukraine, more faithfully, ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take into account the consolidated agreements reached between the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine in accordance with the report that they have heard with the coordinators of the working group, which was created on their initiative. According to the understanding of the President of Ukraine, this agreement is fully reflected in a bill that was introduced by the people, which was presented more faithfully by the Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Onichuk. Now, let me make a few comments on the bill, which was submitted by the People's MP Sergei Matvienkov, who is causing certain, certain warnings and observations by the President of Ukraine. First of all, in terms of what has already been said here, that with regard to the State Border Service and the use of information that should be sent by the State Border Service to the District Electoral Commissions, which should also be of a public nature, since it should be used in a public document called the “List of Voters”. The President of Ukraine requests that the Ukrainian National Deputies also take into account the official position of the Administration of the State Border Service, which is contained in a letter addressed to the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, President of Ukraine, signed by Shisholin P.A., who is the First Deputy Head of the State Border Service and Director of the Department of State Borders, Lieutenant General. I'm not going to read all the letters, just the corresponding parts. In particular, this letter indicates the following. “In accordance with article 10 of the 20th Ukrainian State Border Service Act, the State Border Service of Ukraine has the authority to create and use information systems as well as data banks for persons.” Alexander Aleksandrovitch, I'd like to extend my time, because there are a few points here that I think might be worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u94	You haven't finished your time, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u95	“and data banks on persons crossing the state border in the interests of intelligence, counter-intelligence security of state control, operational search activities, participation in the fight against organized crime and the fight against illegal migration. In harmony with the article on the nineteenth prim. The Ukrainian Information Act, such information is administrative.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u97	“and it can’t be,” and I emphasize, it can’t be used and used for other purposes. The President of Ukraine, acting as the guarantor of the observance of the Constitution and the observance of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, also wanted to draw attention to the fact that, according to part two of article 32 of the Constitution of Ukraine, such information is considered confidential and without the consent of the citizen cannot be used in the public sphere, namely, the electoral lists, is just such a public sphere. In addition, the President of Ukraine would like to draw attention to the order proposed by Deputy Matvienkov concerning the removal from the list of electors who are temporarily unable to arrive at the polling station, which is proposed solely on request without any confirmation, as proposed in the consolidated, harmonized version presented by Mikola Onichek, which is proposed among others, so that there is just confirmation of the temporary impossibility of moving by the appropriate executive authorities, I stress, of the executive authority. The President of Ukraine would also like the Ukrainian national MPs to use this information, which has already been widely used as official observers from your parties that this way of voting is said to have been very often used to falsify the results of the elections. And of course, this order, if it's fixed in the law, will raise appropriate warnings from the President of Ukraine. And last but not least, the distinguished national MPs. The President of Ukraine would also like to draw the attention of the deputy corps to the fact that the definition of the percentage threshold for the possibility of real elections, as proposed in the Matvienkov project, i.e. 50 per cent, is possible only if the election or participation in the elections of citizens is to be defined as a compulsory activity of a Ukrainian citizen. But of course, in such a case, the democratic nature of the electoral process itself is questioned. And so, since this is already a world practice, of course, the President of Ukraine would like the Ukrainian national MPs to take this position into account by the President of Ukraine, as well as, of course, a consolidated position with the Prime Minister. And the last thing I'd like to say. In the light of these warnings by the President of Ukraine and in accordance with the consolidated agreements reached at the level of the working group and in accordance with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine does not see any obstacles to the rapid completion of the procedure for entering into force of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexandrovska, please. And we'll make up for the time spent on information from the President. Another speaker, Kuzmenko, recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I would like to make an immediate proposal to vote and support Bill 3606-6, introduced by MPs Matvienko, Simonenko and Chechtev. However, I would like to make one comment concerning the status of both draft laws amending the Electoral Act. This is the amendment to article 93, part eleven, article 94, part seven, and article 96, part 13. This is what is proposed here, and I read: “To make the following changes: “The District Electoral Commission is obliged to establish the sums of the voting within the territorial constituency irrespective of the number of polling stations in which the voting was declared invalid”. This means that, at 99 per cent of the polling stations of a district, the elections will be torn down, declared invalid by the district commissions, and by the district commission. The courts, never mind. And the District Commission recognizes the outcome of the election by voting on a single sectional commission. The same rule, article 94, part seven, concerns the Central Electoral Commission, which is also obliged to establish the final vote, regardless of how many polling stations the elections will be torn down, is declared null and void. The same applies to the foreign constituency. What's going on. There is a strong falsification, deliberate falsification, a breakdown of the elections and only, if possible, two or three polling stations in one area of the elections will be normal, district commissions will take stock everywhere, and in fact Parliament will be formed by a vote of voters living in one district in one area of Ukraine. It's absurd, I suggest you delete those positions. With regard to the President's comments. Recently, I crossed the border with a group of kids, drove out for a field trip. All the adult passports, all the birth certificates were entered into the computer, and it took a lot of time. When we went back, we also had data on computers that we had returned to Ukraine on the same day, and a great deal of time had passed again. This means that there is constant monitoring of the crossing of Ukraine's borders by all people, and no one is interested in whether that person is a resident, a scout, a counter-intelligence, etc. It is the case that any Ukrainian citizen legally crosses the border, pursues official, unofficial, personal and so on, and at the same time is legalized in Ukraine, resides and is listed on the residence list. The President's arguments are therefore strange. On the contrary, if we write in the Law: “except residents or intelligence. And so on, then it will be very easy to identify these people who are residents, spies and perform any other subversive functions within or outside Ukraine. Please support my proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u100	Kuzmenko. It's coming in right now. Look at this. Look at the top. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u101	Thank you very much. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, a venerable presidency! From the outset, I would like to say that no doubt the faction of the Socialist Party will support the draft Law introduced by Matthew. For what reasons? Okay, first of all. The differences that have been discussed here have been repeated in all electoral meetings, especially with regard to voting at home, since neither the areas of the Health Department nor the Departments of Exhaustive Information on who can reach the polling station, and who cannot, in principle, have it. Every person’s health is changing, and the health of the elderly is changing even more unforeseeable. The other one. I fully agree with my colleague Alexander regarding the thought of the border guards. It's absolutely like this, from despair, probably the argument that there are residents, spies, drug dealers and so on. Well, we Ukrainians have to respect, and not all of those who cross the border fall into these categories of people. And the last thing I'd like to say. Unfortunately, in the absence of time, there are not two very important points in this law: the first is when a candidate should, among other things, provide guidance on the state of mental health. Among other things, this is required by normative documents allowing for a state secret that each national MP has. Next. We haven't moved on, unfortunately, to the open list system. As long as we don't cross over, these are all playlist jokes, these are all arguments, that's a traitor, and that's a patriot, they're gonna stay. I'd also like to say about 50 percent. I want to remind you that 50 percent, for another reason, is true in Ukrainian electoral legislation. For some reason, until the election of 50 percent of the voters in the first round, the presidential election is scheduled for the second round. Is the Supreme Council of Ukraine a less serious body not to set such an electoral threshold for the next election? Finally, I'd like to say that we're here for one of the points of the State Department standing in front of me. Oh, I'm sorry. The president's point of view was heard. I don't think she's at all argumentative. And I'm proposing to my colleagues to support the Matvienkov bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u102	Thank you. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. There are several differences, but there's obviously a general description of both bills. In the vast majority of articles, it is the same document. But the details determine the essence of the document. So let's focus on these details, because we have to adopt a law that will allow elections to be held, really, legally, transparently, honestly, openly. And so we need to create all the conditions, no matter how difficult it is for a citizen, not a party, or an MP, or a candidate to an MP to have some advantage. A citizen should be given the opportunity to make such an election. Mikola Vasilovich, speaking, called the four differences a barrier of 50 percent. Note that this is a barrier for those taking part in the vote. This is a barrier that prevents a turn-on election from taking place. In turn, some 70 percent, sometimes more, sometimes less, are voting. We know in the referendum that, even in certain areas, there were over 100 percent of the voters. And then you can get 30 percent and write it down by 70, so for the next election, you have to write that rule down. And by the way, she's not being rejected by the president's administration. With regard to foreign service, of course, we should consider foreigners. True, we hope that we have the Storks not so much and that they will hardly rush to our elections to keep their distance. So there is no great trouble here, and if we ensure clarity in this respect, we will protect ourselves from the forgeries that accompany elections in many places. As far as home is concerned, this standard has been applied to us before. And in the Matvienkova project, it's clearly expressed. And in relation to the so-called, renaissance of lists, it's anachronism that we've applied before. And I would like to protect everyone who comes to Parliament next so that they don't manipulate them. You're on the list to Parliament if you're doubtful that you're the one who's left with some unreliable people or something. If you don't get into the majority or the coalition, you'll be pushing Parliament again from this tool. Or what, you don't have to do that. Don't take those you don't hope for, and everything will be fine. I don't think the responsibility of the parties has to be translated into the responsibility of society. And the argument on this point is that the representatives who advocate the removal of this standard are also justified. But what I'm saying is that both of these are good bills, and you can look at both. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Smithuh Grigory Evdzimovich, asks that they be determined in such a way that they vote, let's say, in secret. But our Rules provide, first of all, for clear rules when the vote is held in secret, for the first time. And secondly, it's also an objective assessment, it's a means of ensuring the publicity that stands up. I don't think so. We don't have to vote in secret, we're just going to have a simple vote. I think everyone's interested. And finally, another norm that raises doubts. It's about the person who made himself authorized according to the 81st article that should not participate in the next election. I would like to remind you that both the Constitution's norm and even the law of the relevant restriction. has a list of restrictions that are very narrow and does not provide for such a restriction. We should not vote against what is contrary to the Constitution. I'd like to consider this situation and vote if someone decides for the project they've reported, which is 3606-1 without this norm, it's just incorrect, and it doesn't really solve anything. And the electorate should make an objective assessment of who is on the list and pay attention to this situation. Can I put it to a vote? With motive? Write down from the faction’s motives for one minute at a time. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I think we should adopt, indeed, the law, is a political arrangement. But to take the law of Matvienkov as a basis, because it is more democratic, more appropriate. And then I didn't say humor when I said that you shouldn't include Matvienkov's point that MPs shouldn't have the right to go to the vote that wrote the lists. It'll cause a misunderstanding, it'll cause a conflict. So I support what you said, Alexandre Alexandrovich, delete this paragraph and vote for Matvienkov's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u104	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, 51 percent on the threshold of appearance. We love pedaling and referring so often to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, not to European structures. He's sitting there with the minister of justice, he's sure to confirm what I said. At his suggestion, these standards were once removed from electoral legislation. Because the whole world was laughing at us. Because I said, if you're a democratic country, how can you force people to go to elections? That's the first one. Second of all, it's about the state register. Let's ask those who will organize it -- the Central Election Commission. They've been crying all over the world for a month now that it's impossible to do that. You see, read this law at least as much as you've adopted. And the last. The fact that those who have exercised their authority cannot go to the polls. We support this standard. Because neither Yanukovic nor Kabmin will go to the polls anymore. That's exactly what we're up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u106	Jaroslav Petrovich, you should be careful in your comments because you have not read this norm that you have just commented on. There are those who have exercised their authority in connection with the transition to another job that does not apply. [[B in m in s a l in]] This applies only to the article, which applies only to those who, in relation to the 81 articles, are authorized to do so. Please. But listen carefully to the reporter. It was in addition, he made the right report. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u107	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what I think should be taken into account in the proposal made by Alexandrovsky, who proposed 93 articles, as well as 94 in the paper: “The District Election Commission is obliged to establish a total vote within the territorial constituency if the number of polling stations in which the vote was declared invalid does not exceed 50 percent of the total number. I mean, to understand that it's not, as we say, it might happen in summary, the summation of the vote that 90 percent of the polling stations have found not to be real, but 10 percent determines practically the political course in the future of Ukraine. I mean, I think it's a universally democratic norm that we should have put into the body of our draft law, 93, 94 articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u108	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u109	I think we can vote now. I am particularly inspired by the words of the Head of the Supreme Council, who called on me not to violate the Constitution and not to make excuses that former MPs who came out or were issued by the President's Order no longer have the right to run for President. It's nonsense, absurdity and crime. I urge everyone to vote and vote with observations so that this law is not only voted on but also put into effect by the President, his executive signature on behalf of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u110	Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u111	Alexander Alexanderovich! I want to repeat my request, I have made it in writing, I have spoken. Dear colleagues, during the last year, the Supreme Council has repeatedly been accused of bribery, corruption, pressure on deputies, and that is, unfortunately, the opposition force. I'm very familiar with a lot of colleagues who are being pressured by their leaders. So, Alexander Alexanderovich, given that the Supreme Council wants to decide for itself today on the elections for the term, I count it to be wrong in breaking the Constitution and in violating the mandates that the people have given us. So in order to give these deputies their will, which, unfortunately, are dependent on their leaders, I ask that this decision be made only by means of secret ballots. Then there will be confidentiality, then no one will be afraid, and that will be objective, then we will realize that everyone is in favor or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u112	Okay. Thank you. I will put your proposal to the vote, just to say, the Bible says: “There is nothing secret that will not become manifest.” So this is such a relative norm. The author of the Matvienkov bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Well, I don't understand, frankly, why the whole world doesn't laugh at the imperative mandate, but why it laughs at the 50 per cent vote rate, especially in the re-voting, in the off-duty elections, when these elections should unite Ukraine. That's the first one. Second moment. As for the crossing of the border and the mystery that was discussed here today. Article 32 of Part Two of the Constitution confers the right of the CTC to have confidential information and to receive information. These are the things that may be obtained under this article from the territory of the border and which may be certified. With regard to article 101, part three. Well, after all, what should the problems of the party put on the problems of the State, the problems of Ukraine's budget, if you can't get a normal list? And all the trouble is not in the law, unfortunately. Unfortunately, we have been in violation of any laws that we have not passed lately, of any kind, of a hole in any law, of any kind, and of any kind, of overstepping it, of any kind, of falsifying it. So here's the root of evil, I think, not what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u114	That's true. And that's what everyone understood, but it's not the least of it, but it's the right thing to do. I'm proposing to Smitsch about secret voting, who's behind it? With regard to the voting procedure, either in secret or in public. [[13:09:01]] For-41 There's no way that's going to work out. Thus, the procedure will be open-ended. I am voting on the draft law amending the Ukraine Election Act, reported by Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk. [[Registration number 3606]] Based on the base. [[13:09:38]] For-174 The bill is based on the same bill, registration number 3606-1, reported by Sergei Matvienkov. [[13:10:09]] For 251 Can we put this whole thing to a vote? One moment, please. Is there an amendment to that? Sound it again, please. I'll ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u115	There's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u116	Now take the word for denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u117	[[Speak Without a microphone]] . do not vote in general. There's a denial that you counted it yesterday, count it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u118	What's that? I'm counting, yeah, definitely. Wait, Alexandrovska speaks now and then Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u119	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. I propose amendments to article 93, part 11. The following text should be: “The District Electoral Commission is required to establish the summary of the voting within the territorial constituency if the number of polling stations in which the voting was declared invalid does not exceed 50 per cent of the total number.” And article 94, similar to part seven, states: “The Central Electoral Commission is obliged to establish the sums of the voting within a foreign constituency if the number of polling stations in which the voting was declared invalid does not exceed 50 per cent of the total number.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u120	Alla Alexandrovna, Your Honor, I would love to vote on this norm, but I have no right to vote, excuse me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. But wait, I've already announced, and you're asking me to give your word right now. Yavorowski speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, national deputies, the honourable presiding officer! Alexander Alexandrovich, the chairman yesterday showed, I would say, hyper-democracy when we took the budget amendments. The question was to accept it in the second reading immediately, that is, in general. But since there were several deputies raised their hand, you did very honestly and noblely, you said that I had no right, if there was a objection, to put to the vote in general. Today, against the adoption of the draft law on elections, on early elections, the entire "Our Ukraine" and the entire "Julia Timoshenko" bloc are against this. Aren't you going to put it on the vote as a whole now? So where are the principles and where is that? Therefore, think and do as you have to do in harmony with your democratic principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u122	I understand that you don't want to pass the law today, then the other thing. Please write down who wants to make a statement. One faction at a time. And I'm taking into account the claims that Alexandrovska just made about her being prevented from making her suggestions in writing, because it's preparation for second reading then. Then you'll probably have to bet. Oh, are you filming? Okay. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! We have come to the final stage of the adoption of the most important basic bill, which must ensure transparency and democracy of future elections. Therefore, I ask you to follow the clear procedure of the Rules. Two laws were democratically put to the vote. One law did not receive 226 votes. The second bill has received more than 226 votes, so I ask that the law be passed in general and that it be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u124	Pomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u125	Please hand over Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u126	Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u127	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the working group has been working for over a month practically in the first reading mode, defining the ideology of the law, the changes in the law to the elections in conditions of insignificance, as well as the basic positions that would allow for exclusion in further falsification, i.e. the change in the will of citizens to an agreement or a political power or a specific official. I mean, we did everything we could to get into a coherent project, but that didn't work. So when the opposite side of the President passed his bill, and the coalition of its own, we practically went to the second reading stage and already the hall determined which of the projects would be supported. I mean, I want to say, Alexander Alexanderovich, that we have every reason to put up a project now that's gained most of the vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u129	Alexander Aleksandrovich, everything is going to be done and done so that no elections can be held to break the election to stall, falsify, and it's called a great democracy. Specifically. We've already said that for no reason at all, anyone who claims he wants to vote at home. Well, we've seen it before. At Herson's presidential election, 30 percent voted at home, and you saw that there was a forgery, and we're pushing it here today. Now. Regarding the statement, I think that Matvienkov should withdraw this proposal because it contradicts the Constitution and so forth. These four points are taken off and voted, and we'll take it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u130	Right. Kirilenko instead of Gournik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u131	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you have misunderstood the opposition that we do not want to adopt the Elections Act. On the contrary, we would like to adopt him as quickly as possible. But we cannot vote in favour of a bill that turns Ukraine back 15 years and sets the threshold for voters’ appearance, thus making it a duty to vote and simply to vote. We can't agree with the norm when people who have returned from abroad don't get the opportunity to vote, but by the way, some other people who have crossed other borders, for example, Ukrainian-Russian, and to which this norm will not be added, because they have returned behind internal passports and have the right to vote. And we believe that voting at home will bring us back to the sad practice of 2004 -- mass forgeries. So we ask you to put together a task force now, to add more experts, to work. And only the agreed option is to put it all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u132	Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u133	I give you my word to Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u134	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich. I would like to draw the attention of our colleagues to the fact that, of course, their attitude, their approach, could be taken into account. But we must take more account of their attitude in that the treaty was signed by three representatives, heads of State. And so, of course, to date, you just have to be careful not to delay in time in order to get a closer look at this question. That's the first one. The other one. I want to point out that this is the proposal proposed by Matthew, it was made out of his voice. And if you read the bill, it's not in the text today. I mean, he's gone, there's nothing to talk about. So I suggest that we vote from the faction, taking into account exactly the agreement that was signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u136	Everyone has said, literally for a moment, I'm asking for your attention. Calm down. You can call it a break, you can have another meeting. But we're just taking time then. And you don't have to do that. So I'd like to ask your permission to do something like this. We have a discussion, and the debate has given way to the barrier of appearance. The explanations were, I think, convincing, therefore, and the President's side agreed that this would pass. If elections are conducted democratically, if these political powers participate in them, there will be a phenomenon that will make this rule dead, that is, it will not be applied. And this is not about the Elections Act at all, but just about the election. So there's no speculation here, so there's no desire for some part of Ukraine to solve this issue for us, I think it's fundamentally important for all of us. As far as other standards are concerned. The proposal that Matthewnko made here is not in the text, it is not in the text. He was just as he wished, he called it, and we're using the argument that a few deputies took advantage of, and I said, including, that this would not pass this proposal, because it contradicts the Constitution, at least it's a very extensive interpretation of the rules of the Constitution. And all the other things, well, that can be denied. Fixing the house and so on is a practice of previous years. And that's the border. So Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, you can see for yourself how our meeting will end there, and we will only take time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, I beg of you. Are you insisting on a break? I ask, before the final vote, if there are specific remarks, then this can be done. I ask you now, we are currently interrupting this consideration. Daniel and Ephraim were asked for a short time to announce, and then we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we all want to reach a logical conclusion. That's why I'm addressing the deputies from “Our Ukraine” and BUIT to comply with the Supreme Council's decree of 30.05, article 81, part six, and I've just sent out a request to every national deputy to write an application for an exit from the deputy faction under the name of the presiding faction. If anyone does not understand, I will read out a ruling that reports on the following: “and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall report in writing.” We really want to end this process today. So we ask you to write this statement by 16 hours in accordance with the Rules, and then there will be a basis for the chairman to do so. What's not clear?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u138	Please. There would have to be a clarification. Wait a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u139	I'm sorry, a message from everyone. Each deputy should make a message in the name of the presiding officer. You're about to receive a written address and everything will be written there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u140	Wait a minute. There's a break for half an hour. Heads of factions, on the third floor, please approach. Break, break, break, time, 14 o'clock. After the break of the announcement, Danieline will do it because he's talking at the press conference right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m0.u141	The honourable colleagues, who continue to consult on the point, have the right to put the Chairman to the vote on the adoption of the Elections Act in the second reading or not, because the faction of the "Timoshenko Block" insists that they are against such a vote, here. And you know that the Rules do contain a rule that the Supreme Council may vote in general if there is no objection. It's their business. If there is a denial, then in two weeks we will vote on it in a second reading. In order not to relax, I announce a break until 4:00 p.m. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council. Yes, Your Honor, who in favour of considering the appointment and release of judges now, please vote. [[14:25:07]] For 228 Question solved. Yes, is there a committee head? It's Christmas Eve. But I need a draft ruling at least. Yeah, I don't have a draft ruling, so until I have one, we're not going to discuss it. Yes, dear fellows, dear fellows, let us, even in the presence of the judges, not be very intrusive. I'm sorry, but I'm calling the meeting closed in the morning. At 16 o'clock, we'll start with the judges. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse us, your question has not been entirely planned today.
