ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, guests, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, January 9, Tuesday. We hold plenary sessions of the second session of the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call. Taking advantage of the occasion, I would like to welcome everyone to the Christmas, New Year’s festivals that take place in these days, and to wish success, particularly to the deputies, in the part of our joint work that concerns legislation. We should consider this question before registering properly. I'm taking a special break so the MPs can get ready. Please take your seats. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:57]] Registered: 397 There is a desire to work on these questions by 397 deputies. The morning session is open. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have time for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. In this regard, I would like to write down either in writing or orally to representatives of factions. So far, there's a statement by the leader of the Socialist faction, John Sidorovich Boko. He's getting this opportunity, please. And a recording is being made, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u2	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The earth is Ukraine's greatest wealth in the deadly fate of the people and the state of danger. Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko applied the veto to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code on the Prohibition of the Sale of Agricultural Lands until the adoption of the relevant legislative acts. It is noteworthy that the President's veto is treacherously destroying the national unity of the parties that signed it and, among them, Victor Yushchenko, the commitment not later than 1 January 2008 to implement the full market for land with the simultaneous material and organizational security and the creation of the necessary legal framework: the laws of Ukraine on cadastral, the price of land and others. Now, the President is thinking about selling land without a legal basis, but that also means letting the Ukrainian people's greatest wealth be looted into a speculative circulation. There's no cadastre law, there's no real land price, there's still an administrative, not a market estimate. It is not convincing to refer to two articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. The President did not take into account the position of articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine that the land is an object of property rights of the Ukrainian people, the main national wealth that is under special protection of the State, and the legal position of the Constitutional Court in decision No. 5 of 2005 in the case of the permanent use of land, according to which the lack of a legislative and completed mechanism for the exercise of ownership of land is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The right to own land under the Basic Law cannot be used to harm society. The Presidential veto can lead to the beginning of organized destruction of agricultural land, speculation, and fraud schemes. And the victim will be the owner, the peasant, who will inevitably be drawn into speculative devices and will eventually take away the land itself, which was actually the goal of the kushmian land reform and which Victor Yushchenko is successful in coming out of the veto logic. Throwing a state such a risky adventure is too irresponsible a step. This involves risking not only the land, the peasants, but also the state. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine strongly rejects the motives of which, the President went on to violate the Constitution of Ukraine and the Universal National Unity and calls on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the veto on the Act banning the sale of agricultural land before the adoption of the relevant legislative acts. We hope that our position will receive the support of the political forces in Parliament and the general public, particularly the peasants. Socialists also condemn the increasingly used practice of irresponsible use of the veto in political debates around state-favoured decisions, rather than political dialogue, especially in matters around which such dialogue has taken place and consolidated decisions have been adopted. The swinging does not bring together but disunites society by dismembering unrelenting camps, objectively providing food for political speculations, various kinds of adventurers, the destroyers of Ukrainian statehood, the forces that seek revenge and the return to authoritarianism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u3	Thank you. From the faction “Our Ukraine” Klukovsky signed up, will be Kirilenko, the head of the faction that I will announce. In fact, I would like to take this opportunity to announce that the leader of the “Our Ukraine” faction on December 25 was Kirilenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Let us welcome him and wish him success in this work. Moreover, as I now announce, I would like to announce that the national deputy Bertasz Vasil Mikolaiovich should be congratulated on the birthday that took place. Well, it's actually his birthday of seven numbers. It's, you know, yeah, cunningly born to celebrate both the holiday and the birthday, and so on. Meanwhile, Kirilenko Viacheslav Aleksandrovich has the floor, please Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues and honourable voters, of course, the issue of land relations in Ukraine is complex, but President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine took advantage of his constitutional veto right regarding the law to extend the moratorium on land for a variety of reasons. The faction doesn't have to say all the reasons for this decision right now, but we want to say that an endless extension of the moratorium for a year, then for a year, then for another year, it only leads to the looting of peasants and the flourishing of the black market of land. Right now, every peasant knows that there are hundreds of offices that, thanks to corrupt vessels and a whole range of frauds, reclassify the land and are virtually being taken to the country by a moratorium. It cannot go on like this indefinitely, so the President vetoed and urged the Supreme Council to regulate land market issues by adopting a law on State land cadastre, assessing the market for land and other legislative acts necessary for the land market to gain legal status. The “Our Ukraine” faction is also authorized to announce an application for election of an ombudsman because in a few days, the Supreme Council will elect a human rights commissioner. In order to transform this institution into an effective tool to protect every citizen, it is important that the new ombudsman has an excellent reputation, experience in law enforcement, and widespread social recognition. Such a person, according to the “Our Ukraine” faction, is the co-head of the Kharkiv Law Protection Group – Eugene Yuhimovich Zakharov. More than 120 members of the four factions supported the nomination, and on December 20, a decision was taken by the Supreme Council’s profile committee. Most of all, however, thousands of citizens, more than 150 public organizations, Ukrainian and foreign defenders supported this candidate. It is necessary to note, for example, the appeal of the International Society “Memorial”, which brings together 93 NGOs and the first human rights authority in the Russian Federation Sergio Kovalova. The civil movement to support Zakharov has encompassed all regions of Ukraine and is a testimony to the maturity of Ukrainian citizens who have brought up the individual called to defend their rights. This recognition of Eugene Zechariah deserved all his life. In the '70s or '80s, he didn't reveal the courage to support the families of political prisoners by getting healthy people out of psychos, spreading suicide. To his calling, he remained faithful forever and restored the honest name of those who had been repressed as the founder of the Kharkiv Memorial and by spreading true information through human rights publications, defending human rights as co - head of the Kharkiv legal group and the head of the Ukrainian-Helsinian human rights community. Not embracing the state’s positions, being in principle nonsecret and living far away from the capital, Eugene Zechariah helped to protect the rights of thousands of compatriots who turned to his public reception. Of course, a ruling coalition with an arithmetic majority to elect an ombudsman from the faction “Regions” can do so. But such a step will never be understood by either the Ukrainian or the world community. Recently, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Thomas Hamarber, stressed that our experience shows that the Ombudsman works effectively only when he is independent, including independence from the political forces, because he has no right to represent any part of society, but only the whole society. The Ukrainian Parliament has a chance to successfully pass the European values test, and the ruling majority testify that it is not in words, but in practice it is in the interest of social understanding. The election of Eugene Zaharov as Human Rights Commissioner will be a major contribution to this understanding and will demonstrate that not only opposition but the entire Parliament prefers human rights to group and party interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u5	Thank you. The word comes from the faction “Regions” by Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan. Simonenko will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u6	Honorable fellow countrymen, distinguished fellow national MPs, representatives of the media. Allow me, on behalf of the Party of the Regions, its factions, to warmly welcome the coming New Year, the Christmas Christ, God’s grace to each of you, your families, your families. Statement by the MP of the Party of the Regions. Honorable compatriots, respected colleagues, despite objective difficulties and subjective opposition, 2006 marked the year of Ukraine’s reform of permanent European democracies. In 2006, Ukraine began to live by the standards of the parliamentary-presidential republic. One of the main requirements and conditions of such a governance model is efficiency, transparency, the creation of conditions for a stable internal and external policy, the approximation of domestic parliamentaryism to the world standards of democracy. Ukrainian politicians have largely demonstrated a high level of political culture and responsibility, the ability to deal with truly important public tasks. Positive results have been achieved through constructive cooperation with parliament, the coalition of parliamentary groups and factions. Representatives of various political forces, identifying the will and democratic choice of the people based on the trust of the electorate, shared the shared responsibility for the realization of the hopes and expectations of all Ukrainian citizens, managed to unite efforts and build Ukraine together. The beginning of the anti-crisis coalition and the Januković government in August 2006 was quite difficult. The orange government has left the economy and social policies and borders of disaster. Only one of the most significant examples, the cash gap, the budget execution was about 7 billion. These are pension, social, budgetary benefits that citizens should receive from the state every month. In early 2007, we can confidently state that the government of Viktor Yanukovitch implemented the anti-crisis programme in 2006. We managed to stabilize the situation in the economy, and it started to grow. Today, Ukraine has virtually no payroll debts and other social benefits. Making order in the use of public financial resources remains a priority of the parliamentary-government coalition's activities. Victor Janukovic, president of Ukraine, acknowledged the first success of the work of the anti-crisis coalition and government, Victor Yushchenko, in his New Year’s greeting. Literally: “there is a sense of real freedom and a perfect fact of economic progress. The Ukrainian economy is demonstrating one of the highest growth rates in Europe. People's income increased by 20 percent.” The faction of the Party of the Regions positively appreciates the recognition by President Viktor Yushchenk of government and anti-crisis coalition actions. What tasks are now relevant? There is a lack of a system-wide regulatory framework, especially the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which has been adopted but not signed yet. And the president still hasn't published an official response to this law. The work of opposition must be regulated and regulated. Opposition does not mean antigovernment, however, it is usually forgotten by some of the political forces in power today. The next systemic step is to reform local self - government. It is the reform of local self - government that opens up new opportunities for regions with regional advantages of transferring authority from the center to the place. Together with authority, local authorities are increasing their level of relevance and certainly the level of effective work of local authorities. The faction of the Party of Regions is set up for further fruitful, effective, constructive cooperation within the framework of the anti-crisis coalition with the government of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. Only by overcoming differences and united efforts will we be able to make use of all the opportunities to improve the lives of the Ukrainian people and to ensure the prosperity of our homeland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is a Communist faction. Sivulski will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the honourable voters, greeting you with the New Year, I would like to express our faction's wish that all your hopes will come true and that the hopes you have, they will be realized in specific matters. Happiness, Goodness, and Health for All! But speaking today, I would like to ask a few questions, and they are very important, and I think they will be the main political events around which the bitter political struggle will be fought. First. The Communist faction today urges all present in the Hall to vote in favour of the veto used by the President in connection with the moratorium on the sale of land. I'm addressing you today, dear peasants, this is a terrible phenomenon that begins. whether it starts in 2007, because the President, in carrying out anti-Ukrainen foreign policy, is today trying to exercise his right and start the process of selling land. I'm going to ask you today to remember again how much privatization started, how many promises there were that voucher is going to be in your yard tomorrow, and you've all been waiting for the GAZ-24 to make each of you rich. Have you been waiting? The last one was pulled out today, and millions of people were thrown into the house. They are now out of the country looking for both work and a piece of bread. So today, President Yushchenko of Ukraine, in conducting foreign policy, is trying to sell the last one of us in Ukraine. What is behind this? This is a loss of production in the country and in Ukraine as a whole. This is the loss of large - scale production that will ensure the food security of our Ukraine. It's a loss of the ability to provide raw materials for our reprocessing companies, and it's unemployment again, and it's a very difficult phenomenon that has happened all over Ukraine today. It's also the problem of destroying social infrastructure in the country, because the last time the libraries were killed, the faps were destroyed, the clubs and the cinemas forgot what it was in the village, I'm not talking about hard-cover roads anymore. We forgot what it was like to build a home for a teacher and a doctor who, as young specialists, came to the village to teach and treat. I would also like to address all of us today, honourable members of the people, let us certainly vote in favour of the veto, because that is also the value of our wealth, that is the wealth of future generations of the people of Ukraine. Another problem. Today, it touches on what is happening in Kirovograd, and that is what is affecting the problems of the entire organization of government. This is how Kirovograd continues the same as before, because the territorial election commission, in violation of Ukrainian laws, failed to comply with the ruling of the Court of Appeal regarding the recognition of elections that took place on 26 November last year in Kirovograd. And by the way, the national MPs from “Our Ukraine” are involved in this, and it is our colleagues who are just today frightening the members of the territorial electoral commission. That's where the big money goes. There today begins again the same thing that we all paid attention to when we were talking about the 2006 elections. I'd like you to understand that today we need to give an immediate order to the Attorney General's Office, I'm addressing you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, in writing today to the Attorney-General's Office to investigate the beating of a member of the territorial election committee by the secretary of this commission, or by Mr. Ushakov's lieutenant in the premises of the territorial election commission, for knocking on the door to the head of this commission and wanting permission to come to this office. Today, I feel that it is necessary to investigate and prosecute this criminal case against Mr. Ushakov and to investigate why the members of the territorial election committee today have decided to appeal to the Court of Appeal. And another problem. It touches on this, and I am addressing the leaders of Kyivstar and UMC's mobile phone company to look for the possibility of developing a special tariff package for teachers and doctors in Ukraine, from the daily work of which much of our country's citizens' health belongs. I have no doubt that today, and we understand that today this part of Ukrainian intelligence is due to the low level of wages and social assistance, unfortunately, whether or not it belongs to the poorest parts of society. That is why I urge all those who want help at the right time from doctors, from those who want to know where his child is, and what happened at school, to this particular category of doctors and teachers, to provide a special medical care package so that they can have a mobile connection. And the last. I believe that we must, the Supreme Council, do everything we can to get President Yushchenko to sign the decree to hold a referendum in Ukraine regarding Ukraine's accession to NATO and to define our position with regard to the only economic space.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u9	The word is given by Mikola Sivuliski of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, dear voters! I would also like to greet everyone with the New Year and Christmas Christ, and I would like to begin by evaluating the achievements that the government of Yanukovich and the ruling coalition have made for us under Christmas tree. We've already heard from the head of the government, and from the presentation of the faction of the Party of the Regions about these achievements. These are basically three achievements: the first is the acceleration of economic growth, GDP growth, overcoming the cash gap in the budget, and the repayment of wages. Dear colleagues, we need not be hypocrites, we need to tell the people the truth. Yes, you have accelerated the rate of growth of gross domestic product: if they were 5.5 percent for Yehanurov in January-July, they grew to 6.2 in 11 months. But why don't you talk about what you've been upsetting inflation, and the whole GDP growth is purely inflationary, so the consumer price index has gone up three times in four months, and the price index for industrial production has doubled, because if you compare the GDP increase that's provided for 11 months with price increases, it's going to be clear to everyone that it's just an inflation factor, and for an average citizen it's going to be a decline in the standard of living! Here's the real real price of a medal that you hang on your chest. We need to talk about the fact that in four months real wages have been falling steadily from month to month, and October to month has become a record in Ukraine, when in one month the income of all Ukrainian citizens fell by five percent, each Ukrainian lost five hundred dollars! That's the price of politics, economic policy, which is the original government of Yanukovic. Now it's about paying off wages. It's not true that you paid off your debts. They make up 996 million on December 1st, and you cut it down from August 1st to just 105 million. But what was the price cut? Let's look at what happened to the wages in our economy. The rate of wage growth from August to November fell to 0.6 per month, while the previous government ensured an increase of 3.8 per cent. If every month from the beginning of the year to July, including the average wage, increased by 36 dollars, four months: from August to November, only six. Thirty bracelets of reduction! The loss of the population as a result of a sharp change in the government’s economic policy: 124 dollars each, a billion, 400 million of the entire population of Ukraine lost in just four months of government rule. How can this figure be compared to a billion 400, with 105 million, in arrears? Absolutely insurmountable things. In addition, there has been a real decline in wages in individual areas. And what's particularly painful to say is in the budget area: in the area of education, you've given a negative 1.4 increase, a reduction in the pay of education; health is minus 0.7, and you've reduced the pay of doctors. I'll give you some figures: in July, the medic received 888 dollars, in November 812. Minus 76 dollars. For what? Health care: 693 bracelets — 674 Minus 20. How did this happen? You've saved only 100 million on the wages of education and medicine. That's the price of the question. And now the question is, why are these sacrifices, why is this all happening? I'm going to give you a specific figure on who won that policy that was initiated by the government of Yanukovic. In August and August, income in the national economy increased by 23.8 billion, or 1.7 times, compared to what was at Yehanur's. So you have to tell the people the truth, there's a coalition that's going to solve the question of enriching the oligarchy capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u11	Thank you. Everyone had the opportunity to express themselves and the good news is that the opposition critically appreciates the work of power, because it allows both the power itself and society to analyze the real state of things. With regard to the arguments, it is the case of everyone speaking in the rostrum. I think experts are now able to comment on these terms. We are now approaching the issues raised by the Rules and envisaged today in the work plan as Government Day. Two issues are to be considered: the state and prospects of general secondary education in Ukraine and the summary of the rest and recovery of children in the summer of 2006 and the measures taken by the Cabinet to organize rest and heal children in the summer of the 7th year. I will remind you of the general provisions of the Government Day Rules, because the committees offer some other approaches that do not comply with the Rules. So I'd like you to pay attention to that. First, the Cabinet of Ministers has 15 minutes and 45 minutes of questions and answers, oral and written answers to the main question. I'm going to give it one-on-one and the other questions time for answers. After that, a brief discussion takes place three minutes from the committee. The profile committees that run these issues will have five minutes, based on the general rules of the Rules, not 15 or 20 minutes, as the committees themselves suggest. Because it's Government Day, not Committee Day. I would like us to pay attention to this situation. Thus, the issue of “Stand and prospects for the development of general secondary education in Ukraine” and the report is addressed by the Minister of Education and Science, Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, the entire Ukrainian community! On behalf of millions of students, I would like to extend a warm welcome to you with New 2007 and Christmas Christ. May everyone be happy and our Ukraine will be flourishing. The review of the state of secondary education is one of the first, first, in fact, at Parliament's meeting, in our view, a demonstration of understanding of the importance of school's role in society. Because the design of each developed state must be based on a triangle of knowledge: education, research, innovation. International experience in the 21st century shows that it is not the accumulation of material goods but the accumulation of knowledge, experience, the care of people, their health. The world spends about 20 trillion dollars a year on developing human potential. It is remarkable that the share of human potential in the most developed countries reaches two thirds of national wealth. We've got less than twice as long, unfortunately. Hence the welfare of citizens, their well - being, and their social optimism. The national education system functions and develops in a stream of very complex globalization processes, and that is understood by our government, the Anti-Crist Coalition. By no chance will an education development programme be considered at one of the next government meetings by 2011, which is an organic component of the Government's Programme of Action for the same period “Competitive Ukraine”. Today's Parliament is looking at a new edition of the laws on secondary education, on higher education, on "For higher education", on "For higher education", on "For higher education", on "For higher education" and on "For higher education" and on "For higher education" and on "For higher education". The Ministry, the government is reviewing the state of affairs with the Committee on Science and Education in secondary education, and it is finally making concrete changes in the field, promoting its renewal and development. Today in Ukraine, you will be presented with this. Nearly five million students are being trained, and 512,000 teachers are working. If objectively, without prejudice, we may find that we have different educational qualifications. There are those that meet international high standards, and unfortunately there is no other quality. Among the most modern I could call the Kyiv List “Divide”, the Kyiv School number 171, the Rechillavian High School in Odessa, the Dnipropetrov Information Technology List, the Lviv Physico-Mathematics List, the Winnitz High School number 17 and many others. And a lot of schools like that, to be honest. It is not uncommon today for citizens to have a level of confidence in society that education among other state institutions takes its place after religion and the Armed Forces. By the way, if, according to the human development index in the world, Ukraine has 78 seats out of 170, no matter what life expectancy is, Ukraine would be between 38 and 40. Because our educational performance is much higher than in many countries of the world. 98 percent of our children go to school and get full secondary education. In 2006, I'm going to say that in 2006, our schoolchildren at the international Olympics in mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, ecology, 22 won medals from 22 participants, that's a great result. However, I would not be objective if I did not say that the situation in secondary education as a whole is quite complex. Yes, we stopped today the process of dropping the quality of knowledge that took place in the 90s. The period of stability and recovery has begun, but the status of most schools, the quality of Ukrainian education, according to the government, is not enough. Our school, for the most part, is responsible for the content and structure of Ukraine's agricultural and industrial development, somewhere in the middle of the twentieth century. Earlier, the ability to read, write, and count was sufficient to provide for the family and to be an active citizen. Many things that our children are not studying today have been created for the era of paper and pencils. We are far too far behind in many advanced lands. Today, the whole world and the school have come into an era of rapid change, a digital age, when schools with no traditional textbooks appear, education takes place all day outside of school, throughout their lives. Modern educational communication technologies fuel the spark of creativity, entrepreneurship, and increase productivity. That's the kind of professionals that our country needs today, our economy. In our view, the main theme of our joint action is the government, parliament, education, all politicians, regardless of the color of the slopes, to come out of a state of overcoming development in a position of real competitiveness with the educational systems of the advanced countries. Look, here's an example. Little Singapore has chosen national acquisitions and slogans for the next five years. “The learning nation is a thinking school.” Under this program, 2.5 million were foreseen. The state's development rate is extremely high to update the base of every secondary school. The Ministry of Education and our government consider the following five priorities ahead: European quality and accessibility of our education, spiritual and moral orientations in education, democratization in education, and the promotion of teacher status. Here you can recall the words of Makarenko: “Happy teacher, happy student and happy Ukraine” and the development of a society innovative based on new knowledge. The materials given to you, the distinguished national MPs, reflect specific systemic measures for modernizing secondary education. In the absence of time, the name is only a single step that has been taken by the government for the last time. First of all, we've taken a number of steps to create a high-spirited environment in our school, which is a very difficult problem. By a third compared to 2005, there had been a reduction in school violations, by 20 percent among the students in the schools. We are implementing our national education system, we have launched the sports and patriotic first Cossack Hart complex, and we are reinstated by hundreds of groups of extra-school institutions. First, parents, student self - government, are seriously involved in the educational work. Serious steps have been taken by the government of local governments to support the health of children. In two years, the number of children who eat in schools increased by 24 percent, and now 97 percent of the first - fourth - grade schoolchildren are able to eat in school, which is very important for preserving their child’s health, because without health, there is no need to talk about any prospects. 87 percent of the students are able to eat at school of all classes. The activities of sports groups, sections, are being restored. We've even restored basics such as exercise, exercise, exercise, and so forth. It's different. There has been a marked increase in funding for education. We realize that this is not enough, but everything is recognized in comparison. In 2004, 18.3 billion dollars were allocated to education, 5.3 percent of gross product on the slide. In 2006, 33 billion, 6.4 percent of GDP. So in this year, more than 39 billion will be allocated, which is already 6.6 percent of GDP, of which 26 billion dollars to secondary and preschool education, is twice as much as twice that of three years ago. Last year, 221 schools, mostly in Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk, Lugansk, Kyiv, Poltavsk, were capitalized. In 471, the heating system was replaced, the roofs were repaired. In total, for the first time, nearly 200 million dollars were spent on school renovations. Most of the work was done in Gitomirsk, Donetsk, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The average wage for education is rising. We realize that this growth is not enough today. But if it was 151 bracelets in 2000, in 2003 - 393, we went to about 929 bracelets in 2006. By the end of 2007, it will reach at least 1,050 dollars. Third. Steps have been taken to strengthen the educational, material, school base. Over the past two years, nearly 25 million textbooks, 14 million in this year, have been printed. Fully equipped with textbooks for first- to sixth-grade students, 80 to 90 percent are provided by high-school books. In 2006, we increased the printing of books for the subjects of the science and mathematics cycle. In addition, it appeared that, say, 625 thousand just crosses, it was the most painful place. Particular attention was paid to the graduation of literature for schools teaching the language of national minorities in special educational institutions. In all, over the last five years, more than 700 manuals and manuals have been created and published. Today, we are working on a model of a national textbook with electronic support. I'd like you, Mr. People's Deputies, to take a look at the e-learning program exhibit, the technical training tools on the third floor. Last year, for the first time, 197 schools were installed for children in need of correction of 85 million dollars of physical and mental development, including for blind children, such as computer technology. It is extremely expensive, but we realize that children’s health is more expensive. The Ministry of Education has completed a list of laboratory equipment for physics, chemistry, biology and others in conjunction with AGN. The first purchases of this equipment were made for 17 million dollars and supplies were made at school. At the time, work with the domestic producers of this product is shared. A joint project was successfully launched with the World Bank, which envisions support for secondary school over the next four years for 450 million dollars. Only next year will more than 100 million dollars be spent supporting our schools, information and so forth. We can continue to list the effective steps taken by our government. However, the top priority for 2007 is, in our opinion, to identify two issues: the revolution in education takes place in two main directions: informing and exploiting the potential of human development. Information should therefore be identified as a priority, as well as the care of the teacher and the training of the new teacher, the new teaching systems. Information in education. This is a revolutionary step towards the world's standards of quality. In Ukraine, the State Information and Education Program is being implemented and approved by the government. It is called “Information and Communication Technologies in Education”. A total of 10438 secondary schools have been computerized in Ukraine for the time being. 73 percent versus 56 in the fourth year. Government efforts, local councils were purchased for the schools of 2,466 computer complexes in 2006. [[You can see pink on the slide]] This has been the most in recent years. The vast majority of these equipment have gone to rural schools. Worse still, unfortunately, is the state of the city’s schools today. And we're in the 2007 budget project, and we need to address this gap. They are practically fully equipped with modern technology and computer technology in the city of Kiev, Sevastopol. Close to this indicator is Volin, Carpathians, Equinox. Regrettably, the rear and the Crimea are still pastured in the Kirovograd Lugansk region. We have taken the lessons of the past years into account and have worked hard to create programs of didactic and methodological tools on electronic media, for we are well aware that computer technology itself does not provide anything. So far, 142 software didactics have been developed, mostly from mathematics, physics, geography, information, biology, history. That's about 70 percent of what we need, and we're going to do the whole thing this year. Schools connected to the Internet have doubled. Work is being done on the creation of an all-U.S. educational portal, a school portal called the “Island of Knowledge”. Schools will be able to use this portal for free on a system-based basis through web interfaces, search and navigation systems. We pay special attention to the teaching of teachers in conjunction with many companies, including Intel, Microsoft, and others. This is one of the main problems: the training of our teachers. That's why the World Bank project, based on the institutes to improve teachers' skills, is doing a serious job of training our teachers, not the teachers of information, but the teachers of subjects. I would like to ask the district leaders, the cities, to sign educational journals in each library in 2007. I signed such a letter to every head of administration and city heads so that magazines from the language and history of Ukraine, mathematics, and other physicists were in every school. It's a small cost, and that's essentially going to let us solve a number of our problems, the more that these magazines are now being produced, and this is a powerful step in the development of our industry -- education. Of course, nothing is worth taking, including a list of information and so on, if we don't solve the main issue, it's a question of our teacher's problems and supporting it. Once upon a time, Bismarck said, “Give me a few thousand new teachers, and I will build a new Germany.” Therefore, our government is particularly careful with this important topic, realizing that all reforms will be reversed if we do not have qualified modern-day teachers. Now we're facing the challenge of reforming pedagogical education, and we want not only a guide teacher, but a navigator teacher who would bring the student love.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u13	Let's take time for him to sum it up. No, no, that's wrong, 10.46 is 10 hours 46 minutes. Please make 15 minutes, give me two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u14	I apologize, but I was guided by a burning monitor. That's why we're asking questions today about our support and, of course, this is our teacher's material condition. We plan to review the pay system of our educators. You know, with the help of the Supreme Council next year, we're going to pay five salary raises to all the young teachers who are going to work in the countryside, and they're going to get at least ten percent of the scholarship allowances. By the way, I'm going to say that we've given serious attention to the housing problem. And if, let's say, three years ago about 150 teachers received a year of housing, about six times as many as this year. And this work will be carried out. Each district council has to put housing costs in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a long way from thinking we're doing well, but the problem is, of course, very and very much. If you look closely today, 1 in 5 schools needs a capremont, 800 schools stand still, 3,000 schools need a central heating system, five thousand plumbers, all of which require about 15 billion. That's right. If we're going to go at this rate, even in relative terms, we're going to need tens of years. We will never catch up and we will never have that pace. I propose that we think about the problem of creating an Education Development Fund, where at least one or half percent of all products are going. We also think it's important that IT companies use information technology up to 10 percent of their profits to target school information. We need to make changes to the Social Morals Act, to establish strict control over television. Of course, we need to take care of out-of-school education and overcome the President's veto so that we can finance out-of-school education as well as schools. We need to take care of the training of orphans, children with disabilities today. And of course, we're going to do everything we can to get this future school started, where we're going to work on all the new technologies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u15	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. You have questions from the committees, you will answer them. Many of them, but try to answer briefly. I think you're going to invest in a certain amount of time. In the meantime, MPs, please sign up for questions from your place. Please record. And I remind you once again that the question and the answer -- the minute -- the question and the minute -- the answer. And on your lips, you're there when you're done with these questions. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u16	Thank you. The first question came from the Committee on Science and Education, Social Policy, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine: how will the issue of repayment of debts under article 57 of the Education Act be resolved. I would like to say that in this room two years ago, three years ago, the Law on the Restructuring of Debts relating to Article 57 was adopted. If I don’t have memory, it’s about 3.6 billion dollars. Last year, we paid 659 million to our teachers. This year this figure is also in the form of a centralised subsidy provided for all the budgets of our regions. Thus, this year’s educational, scientific, and educational staff will receive this compensation. It compensates for unremunerated allowances for internships, medical treatments, and, among other things, for rural educators, utilities. At the same time, I'm saying that this year the current 57-stat payments will also be made in parallel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u17	The question is asked by Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u18	Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, I am pleased to hear your speech and especially your greetings for the New Year's occasion and also to wish you a happy New Year, the Christmas of Christ! The report you gave and the materials provided by the Cabinet of Ministers states that these realities, the demographic situation and so on raise the issue of the need for a new economic policy in the field of education, the transition from funding to the economy of education. Does this misplaced phrase mean the State's desire to give up funding and put financing under the name “economy of education” into educational institutions so that parents can pay for their children's education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u19	Dear Gennady Josephovich, thank you for the fine question, even more so for your congratulations. I'd like to tell you what it means. Recently, one of the teachers, school principals, was brought to criminal liability for having to support him. Let's say four techs, and he needed two. And these are the costs of two technical workers, which were aimed at strengthening the material base, all of which he did as he was told. So if we continue to walk in this computational way from the square meters there, from the heat levels and so forth, we are in such situations. It is therefore necessary to talk today about the fact that the school should become the rest of the facility of self - control and give more to the director, a group of more opportunities for him to participate in some of the funds of the sponsors. Let's say we make a pedagogical team. We financed him, and he could spend a step to the left, a step to the right and a prison, and he could spend it on the quality of education. And as for your warning about the decline, the increase in education, you know me for less than a decade, and you know my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u20	Thank you. I mean, the refusal of the state, that's how I realized, there's not going to be any funding for the school. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u21	financing against last year. As far as I'm Social Policy Committee. With regard to the implementation of full-time pedagogical workers on the basis of a single tariff network. This question is indeed relevant. If you know, we've introduced the first phase, and according to Cabinet of Ministers Order No.172 of 2006, that decision is today. According to this regulation, the salaries of the staff member of the first tariff level for the sole tariff network of discharges and salary coefficients in the budget sector are set at the minimum wage level with an increase in the inter-gradual rate. I want to say today that article 76 of the State Budget Act sets the minimum wage of 400 dollars per month from January 1st and December 1, 450. So there's going to be a corresponding increase in the salaries of the education staff. I said at the end of the year, about 1,000 50, maybe 1,000 100 bucks. But to implement the second and third stages of pay, it takes 9.7 billion extra costs, and that's why it's being studied now, because it's not very simple. More than I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u22	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u23	Mr. Secretary, I have a question about the mass closure of secondary schools in Ukraine, especially in rural areas. This is the third time I've had to go to the Prime Minister, the Minister, for a district management on the third attempt to shut down the Red Cross High School of the Fastov Region. There are 100 children and children who are not guilty of having fewer children, and the state does not guarantee the constitutional right to learn in its own village. When does this end? Why is there no control? Why is there no planned development of a secondary school network? This school celebrated the century, and in the 21st century, a newly built two - story school was decided to close.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u24	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u25	Dear Oleg Grigorovich, thank you for the concern that has been expressed in your speech. I don't have enough, I know you've graduated or you've studied at this school. After our conversation about a few weeks ago, the head of the district administration of the Kyiv region personally went to this school in the Red Cross region, reporting to me that the situation was being settled. But I want to tell you that today the problem of closing schools, I wouldn't say it was mass, it was mass in the '60s, the '70s, when two and a half schools were closed in a year. But the ministry and the government are doing everything they can to avoid shutting down schools where there is no reason. Schools close when there are simply no students. In the case you're talking about, I think we should leave school. Because. Oleg Grigorovich! I don't want to answer you like a former deputy. I'm telling you, like a real minister. I want to tell you that about 90 schools have been closed in the last year. But if they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u26	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u27	In the Luhansk region there are schools where there are no children in the first, second, third, fourth. Two men are in the fifth, one is in the sixth, one in the tenth, so you can understand it's impossible to organize a school like this. We have launched an experiment called “School-Family”. We are now working to ensure that no school is closed without the community's opinion. And that's why this is our government's approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u28	A written question, please. The Committee on Social Policy asks for comments on what measures are being taken by the Government regarding the financial security of labour, socio-economic rights of teachers, provided for in 55, 61 and other articles of the Education Act. First of all, it's about mortgage loans for individual housing. The Ministry of Education and Science has prepared a draft decree on how long-term and extended loans will be granted to science and education workers who are now in line. There's been a reconciliation in a number of ministries, now in the Ministry of Finance and Economics. Furthermore, Article 61 of the Education Act provides that at least 10 per cent of national income should be allocated to education. Now it's not calculated. This is approximately equivalent to 8 percent of the gross domestic product. Therefore, in the amendments to the Education Act, we propose that this rule be written down. And as far as housing is concerned. We've asked every council to be in every city, the area has at least three or five apartments for our educators. I said, this year, we're about 860 apartments away from teachers, but if our initiative was supported, we'd solve that problem, because 20,000. Educators need housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u29	Tarasov, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u30	Vladimir Tarasov, socialist faction. Please pass the word Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u31	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u32	Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Please tell me about computerization. A solution to this problem to the various budgets will not solve the problem. In 2007, Ternopilska receives about 8 million in rural schools from the state budget, and Ternopil, a fourth of the school’s youth, is paid only 150,000. So today, 50 percent of urban schools are working on outdated technology, and there is no real ability without State support to resolve this issue. And the second question is that today young people who finish their ninth grade education are worried, and even more people who don't get to 9th grade education. How does the government plan to address this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u33	I, the distinguished national deputy Bogchuk, said in my report that we have significantly improved the information technology base for the rural school. This year you and I recorded in the budget, you know, as a member of the budget committee, you know that I was on a budget committee meeting, and I was putting the problem of recording not only rural schools, but also urban schools. And this proposal was made, it's there. So if, for example, there are areas of subordination, let us also introduce cities, including republican subordination. So let's ask today the question is that in some neighborhoods today, 30-40,000 fireworks are worth of money, and they can't find a computer class for that number. So let's ask the city councillors together today to pay attention to this problem, not just by hand, because no one will buy anything at the village school, and in the city it can be solved. But if we're going to make a grant through the budget, it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u34	Lips. A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u35	Committee of Science and Education, faction of “Regions”. The Socialist Party is asked how is it planned to improve the situation with our teachers, what is the situation with the teaching vacancies? I'm informing the committee and the people's deputies, which is practically a state on. That's two digits. On August 23, 2006, there were 649 teachers in Ukraine, with 520,000 teachers working in a rural school. On September 1st, there was virtually no vacancy on operational data. They were on the same level that someone was born somewhere, someone moved somewhere, went on a specific vacation -- it's natural vacancies. During the last year, this problem has practically been solved. These are just the first steps to enhance the moral prestige of our teacher, that's both paying back for the class leadership and for. 57 articles, salary increases, bonuses, and first steps in housing. Actually, we don't have a problem today. But one digit, Alexander Alexandrovich. Look, we've made a quota reception for rural youth -- 6,000 300 places, which is basically one and a half times more than last year. We made a quota reception for rural children at educational universities at practically 23,000 places. And we have increased the reception for rural youth in this year in order to solve these problems in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u36	Please, Murderer, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u37	Please give the word to Mikola Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u38	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u39	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Stanislav Mikolaiovich, I know your principle of education development position and the sharp turn that was made when you became Minister for improving the financing of education, development, capital construction is very good. But I have a question for you. With regard to the formula for funding education and especially small - scale rural schools. Because we have every tenth school in the village up to 40 students. 64 percent of all schools, in rural schools, I mean schools, up to 100 students. Are there any redundancies in the Ministry, any plans to change this formula? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u40	Dear Nicholas Illihu, thank you for asking. This really is a very serious question. We're going to have a decline this year. [[you have been shown a diagram]] If about 6-7 years ago there were about 600,000 children going to the first grade, this year there would be about 370,000. But since 2008-2009, it's going to be plus 10, plus 15 and plus 25, and beyond, and the growth of our children going to school. And that's good. In view of the demographic situation, we cannot really, I agree with you, dullly use it, formally use the formula and finance education only depending on the number of students, because there can be a school in 300 places, and there are, say, 40 children or a school in 300 places, and there are 600 children. And in that case, what do we do, destroy the populace? You can't destroy it. So there's a special weight factor that's supposed to be twice as much funding in small-scale schools, one and a half times the cost of a knife. That's the problem. We need to work through the weightings, to improve the formula that Minfin and I are dealing with right now. I think the Science and Education Committee will support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u41	Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u42	No, it's in writing now, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u43	Oh, yeah. Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u44	A question is asked by the Science and Education Committee about the retention of class management, office management, workshops, and so forth. I would like to thank you for asking and to say to you today that a year ago payments were made, by the way, all these supplements were voted in this room, for the cool leadership. In the first and fourth classes - 20 percent, seniors - 25 percent, primary school bills - 15 percent, fifth-ninths, tenths - 10-20 percent. For land management, 10-15, school libraries 5-15, management by methodical commissions, 10-15 percent. These funds are foreseen, and these funds have been placed in the budgets of our district councils, city councils, in a formula. Therefore, they must be paid. They're saved. And that's why I think it's worth it. I could say here that we also have students who are teaching a scholarship for a year plus 10 percent, and 20 percent of our government recently contributed to mathematicians who are only studying university programs and physicists. It's to pay attention to these heavy objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u45	Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u46	Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, I know you as a patriotic person. And we're talking about money and money and, clearly, without them, we can't put a little money into education, we have to invest a lot. But I have a question of another order: what is the place in the Ministry of Education's education system that is patriotic? It is understandable that only this feeling can inspire a young person to want to transform our society into a desire for high standards in life, and there is no other feeling that these desires can replace. I know, and it's a widespread phenomenon that many children, especially older ones, outside the school, outside the school walls, are turning down and ashamed to speak their native Ukrainian language, which also destroys young souls. What are the methods? Does the ministry actually work on these things so that a young person can be attached to the historical process of his own people, to a culture that fills them spiritually and culturally?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. That's a great question. In my speech, I briefly said that we today have a concept of national education, we complete such a broad, fundamental document on the program itself, we are taking a number of steps to support today, such as training patriotism, respect for the elder, love for our own country, love for our own language. [[More is said in writing]] By the way, you know, 83 percent of today's schools are in the Ukrainian language of education. This is high, it's rising. I told you that we have restored and created a beautiful patriotic complex, where not only there are sports exercises and physical exercises, but also many questions from the history of Ukraine, traditions, is a Cossack "Hart" that is broken by categories, and we opened it in Zaporozhye this year in Hortica. And about three million children took part, including from all over Ukraine. It was a new step. Besides, I'd like to ask you today -- we've prepared these changes, we need to think seriously about the radio space. If we don't make changes to the law today, we all do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u48	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u49	So that every television company has a license only when there's an educational channel, an educational, cultural channel. And so that I don't go and ask every television company to show something, some moment of education or education or science, and they're interested in it. You look at the kind of educational action -- practically there's no press, whether it's educational or something else. All it takes is something like this, an extraordinary thing to beat someone up, then they'll show. So I ask for the support of the press and the understanding of our journalists, and many of them do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u50	Lip, written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u51	The Socialist faction asks: How can we improve out - of - school education in order to strengthen our children spiritually? Well, about that question comes up with the question that was before. I tried to talk about him, but in the absence of time, I did not reveal that. We passed a law last year with you, and I'm sorry, Parliament passed a law saying that funding for out-of-school schools, which is almost 15,000 stations of naturalists, young people, sports schools, was passed on and funded in order, as a school in budget basket number one is funded. Unfortunately, there was the President's veto, so in my report, I asked you to overcome this veto, and the following year, you returned this article to this 14th and preschool, extra-school schools to finance it normally. What's that gonna give us? This will give us the opportunity to avoid using drug syringes, and our children will visit these extra - school institutions and strengthen themselves spiritually, morally, physically. That's what our country needs today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u52	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u53	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to go back to your phrase about establishing strict control over the radio. I don't see how you can imagine this kind of control over television today. So you said that the press takes the wrong information, but they only take what they want. Under the conditions of press freedom, the press will only take the information it deems necessary, not the information it needs, or anyone else. Today, we must come out of the realities in which we live, and we live in freedom of the press. So I'd like you to tell me what kind of mechanisms you see in order to have strict control of the radio area, and how do you feel about that kind of control, how do you imagine it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u54	I thank you for asking. You must have misunderstood me. It's not about controlling the press. It's about spreading today the practice of the world, which in all democratic, most democratic countries there are when there are educational channels, when there are cultural channels in many countries, that's what they say in Russia. Because, for example, I enjoy opening up, say, in Sweden I turn on the TV, there's a gray professor, and for high school students it works, let's say, in the daytime. We don't need prime time, we agree to work nine o'clock in the morning, give these materials. We have a unit in the Institute of Innovation Technology, where, let's say, from 9 to 14 hours, we're ready to release better teachers, winners of our teacher contests, national teachers, people who have, say, wonderful jobs, creative achievements that the whole nation can tell, sow forever and so forth. So the aspect that you've taken is just, unfortunately. And one more thing. I'm meeting with the D.A.'s Department of Journalism right now, with the students. We're talking to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u55	Finish your thought. I think Hanna got the right idea whether Hanna Herman got the answer right. It's not about controlling the press, it's about creating conditions for educational programs to be used on every channel. The created conditions, including by means of perhaps legislative standards, which provide for a certain time of air, air, and education. Then the journalist will find an interesting, smart one, and the ministry will promote it. Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u56	There are two questions about government measures aimed at the social and material welfare of young professionals. It's a committee of social policy. And the MP's Timoshenko Block asks the same question as in 2007 how it is envisaged to improve the system of guaranteed employment for graduates of higher education institutions, young educators, which will be State support for them, incentives for the profession, and so on. These two questions, if you don't mind, I'll put them together. First of all, I'd like to say, we've had some recent discussions about what look at, a lot of violence and cruelty in schools. If an average of 20 cases were calculated by sociologists on television, if 50 channels were to demonstrate cruelty and murder, how does a teacher today with a textbook and his great soul resist all of this, or family, so it's a bridge flip? As for the specific question, first of all, I have to say that on September 26, our government decided to provide one-time targeted financial assistance to graduates of higher education institutions, according to which graduates of educational universities and others who go to vocational and technical schools and, starting on January 1, 2007, rural schools will receive one-time targeted financial assistance on a five-fold scale. We also have an internship allowance, a class guide, a salary for treatment, a bonus salary, and I also said about housing. Today, we are asking questions about the conclusion of tripartite agreements between the university, the education department, and the student, which included not only the student’s responsibilities, but also the issue of housing, rental, or lending, or 50 by 50, or purchasing on different terms. And today in Ukraine, there are these formulas, let's say in many regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u57	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u58	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. It's all right. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! I can honestly tell you, neither you, today's minister, nor your predecessor, have convinced me that 12-year-old schooling is an economically appropriate and effective form of youth employment. Please tell us, as the minister, whether you are concerned or not, that the left-hand side of the unemployed is related to the previous one. The left-hand side of the unemployed who are in the Employment Center is either yesterday's schoolchildren or yesterday's college graduates. I mean, I'm curious about the perspective on how it's going to be redesigned in view of this enlightening work at school? You know, it used to be a "heart" of the educational process, especially in the preschool period, a pedagogical work. The thing is, they're not unemployed because they don't have jobs, because there's no place to use them, they don't get any skills at school, they don't keep the shirts we used to do, they don't work on machines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u59	Thank you for asking, Mr. Jaroslav. To tell you the following, I wasn't trying to convince you and only one thing, you said "your" schoolchildren, "our" schoolchildren, I think they're ours. I wasn't trying to convince you, because the 12-year education system was introduced six years before I got here and it went with the blessing of this hall. And now I'm going to give you numbers to convince you. 146 countries in the world have a 12-year education period and 49-13 years. There are one, two, three countries in the world that are 10 years old, I think, Albania, Azerbaijan and so on. And it's hard to say that education today prevents people from getting a job. But right now, if we had three technicians and five employees, today, you remember how much effort we had spent in this room, and I didn't take part in this last one, and you too, and all the other colleagues here to keep the system of vocational education that we wanted to destroy. And if the builders are needed today, there's no need for guidance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u61	In construction schools and in vocational schools, and in technology, and in universities, there's a three-to-seven-place competition, man-to-man. And among the unemployed, let's say a person with a higher education, if he's delayed for a year, a half-year of employment, still a lot of higher education, he works three or five times more intensively than a person without a specialty. And as for the problem that you said that we don't teach jobs, we don't teach vocational training, we don't teach in schools. I said, let's strengthen the school's financial base, create an education development fund, a percentage of everything. in the territory of, say, Lviv or Donetsk at the Education Development Fund of the area. And let's put the presses there, direct the tractors, like they used to be in rural school, and we'll have everything. And talking about it without taking any steps is just going to be words. Our educators, the Ministry, and the government for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u62	Questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u63	I'm sorry. Is there a question from the Social Policy Committee about the measures that the government is planning to take in order to raise the status of teachers, Methodist teachers in educational institutions and their role in society, to introduce moral, motivating factors, criteria for assessing the results of the professional development of our teachers? I would like to say that a very positive pedagogical society has accepted Parliament's introduction, and I thank the committee of profile and all of you colleagues, the People's Teacher. In addition, you know, we've established at the level of government, the state, I'm sorry, signed this law by the President, five state prizes for better teachers, 100,000 each. Today, virtually all areas have responded and are also providing prizes for better teachers, and in most parts of the city this is also done. It's a moral incentive. Let's say Crimea, I think 12 prizes of 10,000 each just recently made a decision by ARC to Parliament. I think it's good. As far as the teacher's name is concerned, you know, it's assigned to better teachers, and they get paid. We've put forward a draft decree today for the Cabinet of Ministers to make this payment as a percentage of the basic salary. This requires additional funds. I think we're going to take this up. Today, you know, we have teachers in Category 2, Category 1, Category 1, Methodist Teachers, Senior Teachers, and they have differentiated wages depending on their condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u64	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u65	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Reverend Stanislaw Mikolaiovich! I know you together as a minister, as a professional, and as well as a professional, he has a very good field situation and he sees the prospects for development. Despite years of discussions about the creation of a National Patriotic Education Concept, I did focus on the priority of this task. Because there's not one minister talking about it anymore, that we're creating this concept, but we're far from done. Next. You called it 800 long schools, over 15 billion. There are also in our area on Volina. But experience shows that it's coming from the State budget of 200 to 300 thousand, so it's going to accumulate again. Maybe some kind of joint program in Ukraine, do some inventory and make it clear that this year we're doing it and the next year we're doing it. And another quick question. Quality of training of teachers of natural identity in rural areas The thing is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u66	Please answer in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. Thank you. First of all, we're the concept of national education by decision of the college, it's discussed in all regions, we've approved, and it's already there and it's working. Now we want to put it in the language of specific documents, and this work is also being done. And I think that's a very relevant question. As far as long - term issues are concerned. I think we're going to need today, we're going to negotiate, and I think in the government there's going to be support, so at least, let's say, a billion of the funds that are planned by the Ministry of Construction for the construction of the social sphere and so on, are focused on the construction of those educational institutions, first of all, where there's a need, where there's, let's say, a pressing need where emergency schools are, and I guarantee you, all my deputies are sitting down, that we're going to miss all the areas during January, and we're going to assign those schools, we're going to recommend, first of all, that we have to support. As for the quality of teacher training in the natural cycle, you're right, it's a very difficult problem. We're out-of-date, out-of-date.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u68	Thank you. The question is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u69	A question is asked by the Committee on Science and Education about how the government feels about optimizing the network of public education institutions and modernizing them. First of all, I would like to say that we are out of this – the main task of providing quality education to every Ukrainian citizen to realize his constitutional right to study regardless of which city or village he was born in. And if, for example, there is power today, and the primary priority is taken in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, this function is now placed on local self-government. But we're making proposals to legislation so that it can also be decided through our government. We believe that there must be a school in every inhabited area. If there are not enough young people there, then we create schools of resistance. But the approach is that primary school usually has to exist in every school. There's a teaching facility, there's a community center. If there is a problem with children, then the older classes, they create support schools, which are equipped with modern technology, necessary materials, necessary textbooks, manuals, and children are imported there, and there is a quality educational process. Such programs, and in principle, are in every area, they're approved. I said that today, in Zitomir, in Ivano-Frankivsk, there's a new family project in Kiev where, say, a young family teaches children, a young couple, say, teaches children. One teacher works with children before lunch, another after lunch, not children working on an extranet, as if at home with their parents. It doesn't do anything. And we're doing this program right now, and we think it's going to be very interesting. At the same time, there is a certain cost economy. Because, of course, the cost is what it is. But in education, economics are not fashionable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u70	Suskevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u71	Thank you. The faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, Valeriy Suškević. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! What do you do with accessibility for children with disabilities in a public school? I read the chapter: “Creating conditions for ensuring equal access to quality education”. There's only one record that they've started buying school buses that are available to children with disabilities. But actually today, at least one example of a public education school is available to children with disabilities. One example at least. There are examples of isolated forms of education for children with disabilities, but when are children with disabilities allowed to go to a general education school? That's the problem. And are concrete steps planned for the systematic introduction of integrated education for children with disabilities? In this regard, it is probably worth thinking about the quality and level of administration of education for children with disabilities at the level of the Ministry itself, because today this level is certainly not enough. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u72	Dear Valérie, thank you for asking me this question. We've discussed it more than once. I'd like to tell you that in the information, if you look at it again carefully, we're not only asking questions about how to bring people with disabilities to school, but we're talking about the first time that 197 schools have been installed in 2006 for children who need physical and mental adjustment. Up to 76 schools for children with severe speech disorders, we put equipment up to 25 schools for deaf children, up to 18 schools for hearing impaired children -- 85 million schools at all. That's right. In addition, you know, we have issued a special order and, together with associations, social associations of disabled people, worked on it, participated with them, discussed all our curriculums, programs, and did everything we could to make sure that our children went to regular schools with our children without giving them advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u73	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u74	Asks a question about the Communist Party's parliamentary faction, a question about implementation with the World Bank of the “Equal Access to Quality Education” project and monitoring of the targeted use of funds. I thank you for that question. What I'm saying is that these costs are spent exactly like all the budget costs, namely the Ministry of Finance, the Audit Service, the Treasury controls them exactly like all the budget costs. I'll say this again: about 450 million dollars are available for four years, on average equal parts of about 110 million, and three major projects will be implemented. One is the quality of the training of our teachers, the support of our institutions to improve the skills of teachers, their retraining so that they can train their teachers, train their instructors, and so forth: information, methodical. The second direction is to work out a new content of education, competent approaches, a new generation of textbooks, programs, new methods. And for this development, scientific co-operation, working with the Academy of Pedunaks. And the third direction is to strengthen the material base. Well, let's say this year, 2007, we're taking 500 schools that are going to be pilots in information technology. There's already a tender, 500 will be purchased with modern equipment, and they'll work. In addition, for example, a number of schools will be rehabilitated, determined in each area, roofs, and energy - efficient technologies. It's also in this project. A directorate has been created that works under the supervision of the Ministry of Education. And we're ready, I know, and there's going to be a parliamentary committee, and with Catherine Seminevna, I think there's been this conversation. And we'll be on the committee reporting every single bracelet at this cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u75	Thank you. Instead, Jacob asks the question of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u76	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, we are in solidarity with your responsible innovative initiatives in the field of education and we wish you success. I would like you to try to briefly answer three of my questions. In the "Health" section, how you look at us for introduction, and here we combine efforts from the Health Ministry, mandatory dissipation, which would enable us to control what the foundation of the future nation is, and finally work here. As for talented children. There used to be a good system, and it's a specialized boarding school. They were preserved in the field of sports and art, but in humanities, natural sciences and accurate sciences, they didn't. How do you see these adjustments being taken into account? And with regard to Ukraine's unity, as you look at the connection between Western Ukraine's U.S. and East schools, and vice versa, Eastern schools with Western U.S.A. with an appropriate entry quota, according to the students of these schools in the West.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u77	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, thank you for the deep questions. First of all, I am in agreement with you that the health problem is relevant. Children come to school, on average the disease rate is 2.5 times higher in 11 years. So I support this idea and we'll work. Now there's our colleagues, in this direction, already this conversation is going on and you see, we're both now both physical chargers, and Physpauses, and walks, and so on, we're trying, plus nutrition, to do it. The second in terms of talented young people, the government recently approved the “Talanovite Youth” programme, which the package of measures foresees. Besides, you know, we have a number of Presidents, government awards, the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support these children, and so on. But I agree with you that we also have physical-mathematic, professional, and they're preserved. Each area today has a profile. Well, not everywhere, for example, I know in Ukraine we have a physical math today, we'll support it, we'll have it at the university and all that. We're paying attention to that, but that's the problem, I admit that it is and needs attention. In connection with the inter-regional ties of our VUZs, our instructors.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u78	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u79	Alexander Alexanderovich. We're developing a program like this right now. We even have university heads doing internships with each other, exchanging delegations. As far as quotas are concerned, we are ready to consider this issue. And I think it could be implemented. And the exchange of delegations, travel routes, for example, schools to schools, that is. We are now approving a travel schedule according to which all citizens of children should be in a different region. I think it'll be useful.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u80	Thank you for your answer. Have a seat, please. Catherine Semenovna Samojlik has the floor. She'll deposit in five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we all know that general secondary education is the most important and extensive stage of education. In Ukraine, the legal and regulatory framework of the country's education system has been practically completed. At the same time, of course, the unresolved problems in the general secondary education system remain enough. First, the Constitution of Ukraine declared equality of constitutional rights and freedoms for all citizens, including the guaranteed right of citizens to general secondary education in Ukraine. Has the proclamation been reached? Of course not. There is still no real provision for citizens living in rural areas with quality and affordable general secondary education compared with urban education. This is also reflected in the results of studies on the quality of education and the level of knowledge of 2005 graduates who entered higher education institutions. No exaggeration, I'm going to say that almost all of the higher education institutions have given us the answer that, of course, children, rural graduates have a lower level of knowledge. The unequal teaching and development conditions of rural children in comparison with urban areas are also evident in the fact that in half of Ukraine’s villages children cannot learn where they live, that is, they do not have a universal educational institution. One example, the Dnipropetrov region, of the 1,000,383 population centres in general, only operates in 477, which is 35.5%. As for the realization of the constitutional right to free education regardless of the property status, we have a major problem here. And for no one is the secret that the spread of society itself to elite and mass society has led to a significant increase in the trends in inequality in education. It's different. The Committee on Science and Education is concerned about optimizing the network of public education institutions and, above all, in rural areas. Because local authorities believe that optimization is practically the closure of schools and kindergartens. We support measures by the anti-crisis coalition, the government of the anti-crisis coalition to create complexes of pre-primary education, public education, and other forms that will still help preserve the rural population and help solve this problem. Third. The problem of the content of education is not to be overlooked. During the last six months, thousands of letters have come to the committee from war veterans, scientists, history teachers and others who offer us and think of the distortion of certain events of the Great Homeland War. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education proposed and sent letters to the National Academy of Sciences, to the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, to the Faculty of Historical Sciences, and we offered to hold committee hearings in order to correct the distortion that we see today. Fourth. Maintaining and strengthening physical health, which has been discussed here. This is what statistics show. According to the state of health, the population of Ukraine has a 100th place in the world, and this is the whole score. High school workload, judge for yourself, total student work day is about 11 hours a day, four or seven hours a child works at school, two or four hours a day at home, who of us will last such a crazy day at home. And so, the question really is, we have to solve it, the question of physical health and the physical development of children. This is an urgent question for today. I really don't have the ability to explain in time and positive trends, they are, which have become the gains of recent times, but problems are really much more. They need to be discussed, not retouched, hidden, all of us need a real outcome, children can't wait, they can't grow, and what they will become in the future is up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u82	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss the matter? If so, please write down who wants to speak from the faction, first of all. Please. This entry is being written. And who else would like to make a statement besides the factions? Thank you. Zibenko has Peter Stepanovich from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u83	Respectable colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, the issue of state and prospects for general and secondary education in Ukraine are extremely relevant. To someone it may seem anachronistic, for in Soviet times the problem was really solved completely and definitively. But the event of recent years is convincingly telling us that general secondary education is not available to all today. Because the number of children who today cannot, I emphasize, receive it is calculated by tens of thousands. Part of it can't because there's no school in the village, because everyone knows for a long time, there's no school, there's no village. Another part of the children cannot be gathered into school because of material hardship, since not all parents have the necessary 800,000. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. To send a child to school. Most of these “acquisitions”, in paws, the acquisition of modern national Democrats. When it comes to problems in modern school, the most common problem is the computerization of school. Indeed, this problem has taken place — it is true. But much sharper, I'd say screaming, is the problem of the school textbook, its quantity and its quality. Despite the Ministry of Education's victorious statements that textbooks will reach all schools in time and in the amount needed, unfortunately, that is not the case. A specific discussion about the quality of textbooks. It's the least gifted place for history textbooks. Despite the fact that the textbooks on native history have already stopped writing to us from Canada’s experts in Ukrainian history, such as the Subtle, the issue of vice and the transfiguration of national history, lives and flourishes. Unfortunately, there were no fewer willing, as it were, to win the Great Homeland War because of it. Her results do not satisfy them, to heroize UN UPA soldiers. In a curved mirror, the textbooks presented November-December 2004 events, I mean, the orange riot. All of this has forced the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the Communist faction to initiate an event in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 13th Government Day with the agenda: “To implement Ukrainian legislation on social, legal and moral protection of war veterans”. This is, indeed, a problem today and we need to work very and very actively on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u84	The word is "Deputy Sokirka" from "Our Ukraine." The Garden will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Our political power has always felt that the dynamic development of secondary education, the improvement of its quality, and the improvement of the position of the teacher are necessary prerequisites for the progress of the whole country. And it was the government of Victor Yushchenka that made it possible to pay off the multi-month debts of the state to the education community in 2000 and to ensure that the income would increase by one and a half times. With Victor Yushchenk elected as President of Ukraine, an ambitious task was set for several years to prove that the salary was paid. Prove the teacher's salary to the average industry, as prescribed by law. Real payments are made under Article 57 of the Education Act. The teacher’s salary grew faster than in other fields. And on June 1st last year, it was an average of 852 bracelets -- that's 69 percent of industrial wages. Regrettably, further increases in this figure are being put at risk by the next government and have been introduced in the 2007 budget to increase the minimum wage and thus the entire tariff network by only 12.5 per cent. Thanks to the position of the President and the opposition factions of Parliament, we have been able to reach the approval of the Supreme Council's decree, which foresees a certain increase in salaries for the budget, but we can only talk about the restoration of previous dynamics once we see a new government working. Regrettably, for many years the state has saved on computerization. As a result, only 15 percent of schools are connected to the Internet. In Ukrainian schools, there are only one and a half students per 100 students. Compared to 82 in Japan, 76 in the United States, 52 in Germany and 15. In December 2005, the government approved the State Programme “Information and telecommunications technologies in education and science for 2006-2010”. Schools have improved significantly in two years. Yet, the quality of the textbooks leaves us with a desire for a better one. Special attention should be paid to objects of the humanitarian cycle, which are often based on outdated stereotypes and do not always teach children to look at the world from the standpoint of the patriots of their country, who are proud of its history and culture. What to say about patriotic education at school if according to the Ministry of Education and Science in the cities of Krasnodon and the Red Light of Lugansk region, Audiyuka, Zhdanovka, Kirovsk, Kistantinjka, Yasenavat Donecko, Novoazowo region of the same area, and in most areas of Crimea and Sevastopol, there is no school in the Ukrainian language of teaching. People are deprived of the basic right to teach their children in their own language and in their own language. Modernization of the rural school network is essential in order to provide rural children with normal facilities, equipment, Internet, transportation, and qualified teachers. Therefore, “Our Ukraine” is constantly stressing the importance of this problem and worrying about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u86	Gardens. He'll be followed by Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u87	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. With regard to the development of secondary education in Ukraine, this problem is relevant. And what we're spending today is a very important day for further development, for further education prospects. Clearly, Ukraine’s first 10 years of independence have been the most affected by the education system, because the financing that was built to the minimum has been destroyed, the teachers’ wages have become the lowest in the country, the network of schools and preschools has been devastated, the educational work has been destroyed, and so on. So in recent years, the ministry has had to make major changes in improving this work and changing the entire work vector. And the main task that today is in front of the Ministry, before the government, including the Supreme Council, is to provide conditions for accessible and quality education. In the legislative plan, we have to make the right points and adopt the Law on Amendments to Legislative Acts, where more than 100 amendments are made to laws that help ensure better conditions for the work of public schools. [[This is Bill 0927.]] We also have to make changes, to adopt, more faithfully, a bill, and then make changes, 1116 on improving the conditions of vocational education. It's our job, and we have to do it. In financial terms, the ministry has also done a lot of work: salary, average wage now stands at 920 dollars, and it will certainly rise. In 2006-2007, 19 schools were introduced and more than 20 schools were planned for 2007. But in order for this program to be implemented, funding is needed, and here the government has to say its word and not stop it, because in this area we still have an enormous number of problems -- 800 schools that are not built, and if you put your hand on your heart directly, we have almost one third of all schools that are in an emergency. Therefore, the accessibility and quality of education must be put in a new quality so that conditions can be created for our children so that they can gain this education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u88	Thank you. Here comes Oleg Belarus. Ah, Mikola Tomenko, I understand from the faction. And he'll be followed by Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u89	Mikola Tomenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to our view of the key problems of the education system, particularly secondary education. The main problem is, of course, the quality of education. Today, there are three elements that make it impossible to provide them. In my opinion, society is not demanding today to ensure the right quality of education. Today we don't have the kind of teacher with the mission and knowledge that should ensure the quality of education, and we don't have the right level of textbooks and generally the system of the basis that we need to learn from. So if you look at the use of computer costs and even try to see what a computer is in schools, you'll see that in most cases it's old written-off computers that are passed on to schools. And from the point of view of metal, of course, this metal is in schools, but from the point of view of programs in which children should learn, of course, computerization, there is no information, especially in rural schools. I have done this on purpose, and I should say that we should have a competition not only for writing textbooks but for a competition to write computer programs, and the textbook should be approved only if there is a program and full material security. Because children and schools can't be out of the world as they are now. Of course, there is a problem of content and morality. Here the minister touched on this problem. And I'd like to say with one stroke. The media, and we have national channels for the media, have to respond to the challenges facing society. I looked at what our children and schoolchildren looked at between the New Year and Christmas Christ, and I must say that I did not see any Ukrainian or Russian culture there. I would have to watch the Russian channel “Culture” to understand and move away from that marzam, and I apologize for showing Ukrainian television during the Christmas holidays for children. Therefore, the reaction should be clear, even if it was to the so - called First National Channel, where there was a constant New Year’s entertainment. Therefore, a question to be answered. The second question is about closing schools. I am absolutely convinced that we have to stop this trend because today the demographic situation in many regions is changing. So we don't have a situation where we start closing rural schools, and in five or ten years, we're going to open them. Better to keep the status of underprivileged rural schools, save the teachers, let there be fewer students. But it's the wrong concept that the government is now carrying out. So I'm a firm opponent in closing schools, and I think that, especially in the village, it's the only mechanism to keep culture in the country. As for the school bus, this notorious one that everyone is reporting, this year the government shut down the program. There's 70 million of them from the Special Forces. What a school bus there will be! So I'm absolutely convinced that it's not just declarative things to say -- we need to systematically do secondary education in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u90	The word has Koleschenko Vadim from the faction “Regions”. Taran will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the issue that is being discussed today is, of course, important, I would even say, crucial. Because the laws that we are making and the real decisions that we are trying to make here are based on who we will hand over this country in five, ten or 15 years. Indeed, today the quality of education underlines that we have an average education in the direct sense of that word. This is what we see in our own children, this is even what we see in the number of international Olympics. The quality of teaching today, unfortunately, leaves us with a desire for the best. The report of the Ministry of Education is certainly excellent. Regrettably, however, it is only the figures behind which there are no real teachers, and there are no real children behind them. There are today very serious problems in our education regarding the humanitarian bloc. We all know and I think it's an axiom that Ukraine is a multinational, polyculture State. And today, our system, which is trying to establish a monoculture system in our country, is leading to our children's impoverishment, our polyculture space. This is reflected, including in the study of literature, where classical literature has gone into the background. Today, the one-sided nature of our culture, which does not give us the quality of our education, is constantly being stifled. Indeed, the Ukrainian language must be protected and protected primarily from those who introduce Galico-Lviv dialects into the Ukrainian language. You'll see what's going on on TV and on the radio. There are some unknown words that our classics -- Karpenko-Kari, Lesia Ukraine -- they didn't even know those words. You have to read this literature today with a dictionary of foreign words. I am no longer talking about a story that distorts the real historical events that have taken place in our country. If we cannot today review the concept of literature, language and history, we will have a one-sided state in which there will be total hypocrisy and double standards. I am in favour of our Ministry of Education working in close tandem with the members of the Supreme Council, with people who understand what is happening today in matters of public education, in matters of the education of our State. First of all, we must also form our deputies, who must understand that we are facing today, not the political challenges, but the very main task of preserving the integrity and prospects of our Ukraine. If we understand that, we'll have a chance. I support President Yushchenko's idea to hold the year of the Ukrainian book. But a Ukrainian book that absorbs all cultures, all the languages that exist today in our unconditionally independent, beautiful Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u92	Taran has the word. Last performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u93	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Stanislaw Mikolaiovich spoke of as one of the Ministry's first tasks of informing high school, and that is indeed the case. But it's no less important to raise children in national traditions than what we just heard here. This is primarily the love of the native language, especially the teaching of the true, not the distorted history of Ukraine. And here, an example for the students could be, say, the feat of the hero Kruth, the high school students, the schoolchildren, who became breast-feeding to protect Kiev from the Bolshevik horde. This is also a child's respect for his mother, for his father, which is why he is called “the birth of a citizen”. “The birth of a citizen” is what Ukrainian educator Vasil Sukhomlinski called one of his basic scientific works. And when the example of Singapore was cited here, I recall that it was the educational concept of Vasil Alexandrovich Sukhomlinski that was largely the foundation of a Japanese pedagogical school, a Japanese pedagogical school. Today, Slovaks deeply respect the famous Slovak teacher Korczak, who, along with his children, died in a fascist concentration camp when he was offered freedom and was to be thrown into a crematorium, he went along with them. The Italians today honor their Pestalots. At one time, teachers from all over the world gathered in Pavlish High School as a pedagogical Mecca to learn the wisdom of a Ukrainian teacher, but today few people come to the village of Pavlish. Why? Because the village is really in a terrible state. There was a terrible road, in the middle of a puddle where it was once beautiful, once a beautiful lake. The main thing is whether in school or in Ukraine there are traditions of Sukhomlinsky today. I'm addressing the minister. I know, Stanislav Mikolaiovich, that you have a deep respect for Sukhomlinsky, it is true. And so let's work together to build a kind of teaching academy at Pavlish High School. For this there are all the preconditions, it's still a tradition, there are other people who worked with Vasil Alexanderovich Sukhomlinski. And most importantly, there is a great need in Ukraine, and perhaps even in the whole world. And there are big words that the nation is great for its children, for its children who love history, who love their native language, do not be misled by such permissive behaviors. And when we work together here, it seems to me that this, I'm addressing you, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, this could be a really good thing to start together by starting this academy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, I have the right to sum up such a discussion, and I want to stop at just one. In the draft decree, I think it was seriously prepared, practically reflected all those fragments of questions and answers, fragments of the problems that exist today before secondary education, and if we took the decision today, because these fragments are provided there as a mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, we would do it, we would do it exactly right. I'd like to suggest you take a decision right now on the matter that we just heard and this project is on your hands. We take to the knowledge of the Minister of Education, and the assignments provided for the Cabinet of Ministers there are completely out of the discussion held in this room. Is there no objection? Then I place the vote as a decision of the Supreme Council document that is in your hands. Please make up your mind. [[12:02:16]] For 328 Decision taken. Thank you. Half-hour break, 12:30, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u95	The morning session continues. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Under the Government Day procedure, the question is: “Consuming the rest and recovery of children in the summer of 2006” and “On the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of rest and the recovery of children in the summer of 2007”. In this regard, the minister will report on family affairs, youth and sports, Victor Petrovich Korz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u96	Dear Alexander Alexander! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! First of all, allow me to welcome you to the New Year and Christmas of Christ and to welcome you to the beginning of Parliament's work in 2007. Today, we are discussing a topical state issue with you, an organization of child health and rest. What should we do, how to improve the child’s health first? The question is not rhetorical, and I look forward to an objective dialogue between all branches of government and the public. Today's Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine allows us to track and track the main trends of the summer health care company in 2006, to raise issues and to identify ways of resolving them together. Honourable deputies, the main tasks of the 2006 summer health care company, were: orientation, first and foremost, the quality of the child’s health, the promotion of health care, the increase in the number of healthy children, the attention given to the preservation of life, and the health of children. To this end, a series of meetings, seminars, and other interventions were held at the intersectoral level for the direct organizers of the process. What can be considered positive? The duration of the healing change, which has increased by 18-21 days and has been brought to such a level, increased monitoring of the healing system. Returning the Youth Guard Children's Center to the state and bringing it back to the administration of Minsimus, youth, sports. Approval of the new order of departure of organized groups of children abroad, their recovery and recreation, and the design of a concept for the recovery and rest of children for young people and families with children. During the 2006 summer health campaign in Ukraine, 2.7 million children, 47 per cent of them, were cured in children's health camps, 2 million children, 38 per cent in children's sanatoriums, 558,000 children, 21 per cent in children's health camps, and about 20,000 Ukrainian children were cured abroad, including the promotion of social and charitable organizations. According to statistics in the summer of 2006, there were 18,000 children’s health facilities, of which 16,000 were day - care facilities. I'm drawing your attention to these numbers. The restored work of five out-of-town health facilities that have been used for a long time for the purpose, that is, the trends are certain positive. Most of the children were rested and healed in day care camps, which, as I've already stressed on them, unfortunately only functioned to provide children with organized leisure, care and nutrition, but all day long the children were not there. Unfortunately, today we cannot give up the organization of camps based on schools, non-school schools, and sanatoriums. The existing health base of fixed out-of-town facilities cannot provide for the recovery of children. This is due to the lack of health facilities in Ukraine as a whole and the lack of funding for the rehabilitation and development of the network. And the solution to these problems will, above all, ensure that more children are treated with health care. Clearly, the quality of a child’s health and rest system requires adequate funding. Thus, the total amount of funding for the recovery and rest of children in the summer of 2006 from the budgets of the various levels of the Socstrich Foundation and the funds involved amounted to 720 million dollars. I would like to point out that there is a positive trend towards an increase in this funding, especially from local budgets, which increased by 37 percent in 2006. And we expect the same trend for the year to come. The costs foreseen in the Ukrainian State Budget for these purposes are funded by 100%. For the first time in this year, the cost of curing children was largely accumulated at the local level, which I just told you about. Thus, 118 million were used from local budgets to prepare for the health care company, 228 of them from the Social Insurance Fund. Expenditures totaling 171 million for the recovery of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster and 25 million for the recovery of pension categories were provided for in the local budget expenditure, which was included in the determination of inter-budgetary transfers. This is done in Kiev, Kharkiv, Lugansk, Kiev, Dnipropetrovski, Donetsk and Vinnitsk areas. In the State Budget, the main cost managers were Minagropolitics — 5.1 million, Minosveti — 10 million, Minsimi, youth, and sports — 25 million. At the expense of the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports, 19 thousand 291 children and 1,671 children are cured of emergencies, including Alcevsk and Novogoddanovka. At the same time, I want to point out that only 3 of the five million Minagropromium has been used. This is completely incomprehensible in the presence of the problems that we are talking about today. Dear colleagues, health services for the budget were primarily provided to children of socially vulnerable categories. At the same time, I point out that none of these categories have been healed 100%. Only in individual regions have several categories of people been healed, namely Kiev, Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk. In addition, when I go back to the question of the quality of recovery, I draw attention to figures that speak for themselves. These are the amounts of funding for the recovery of one child at the expense of government funds from 986 dollars in Kiev to 42 dollars in the Kirovograd region. And that's for the whole change of health. This indicates that there is no system in this matter, and there is no norm. Dear colleagues! At the start of a health campaign in some regions, 84 stationary health facilities, the largest in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Hersonia, and Dnipropetrovsk areas, were not started. The Sanitary Epidemiology Service made 352 warning decisions, but despite that, 25 institutions did start serving children. And in this, first of all, the local executive authorities that deal with and care for these issues. Today, the state of the material and technical base of state and municipal property institutions needs to be restored and improved. This is certainly the case with local budgets, which unfortunately is not happening. After all, the restoration of only 50 long - term health facilities in the last three years does not solve the problem on the scale of our country. No new health facilities are being built. And this certainly cannot please anyone today. The preservation and development of a network of children’s health facilities is largely achieved by increasing the number of day camps. Since 2000, the number has increased fivefold. But there is a decline in the capacity of active health facilities. In 2000, 56 percent of our children are cured in these institutions, and in 2006 only 25 are cured. At the same time, in practice, we see a rapid increase in private out-of-town health facilities, which now make up 60 percent of the body weight. Deputies! With the aim of monitoring the progress of child health and creating proper conditions, several ministries and departments worked — including Minisimi, youth, sports, the Federation of Trades, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, various inspection facilities, and so forth. And in general, the quality level is somewhat maintained. But what I'm saying is, unfortunately, there's a whole bunch of top violations in more than a hundred state-owned establishments and 70 percent of the institutions that have been tested in general. It's a lack of raw material in food, a release of less weight, a disruption of food preparation technology, and a low quality of production. And that is true of our children, dear colleagues. Yes, in the Kyiv region, 90 percent of the facilities for child recovery have found such violations. The biggest concern about the various disorders is that we have institutions that are in the process of organizing a closed stock company called Skrprofessortnica. This is the worst state of affairs, unfortunately. The site “Minsimus, Youth, Sport” contained an open letter to the organizers and those responsible for the recovery of children, the executive heads of the local authorities, asking for special attention to be given to creating safe conditions for the recovery and rest of children. This practice will continue. Despite all the measures taken, in the summer of 2006, there were four accidents involving children, with 10 outbreaks of acute intestinal infections and food poisoning affecting 125 children. In summary, I would like to say that the measures taken in 2006 by the central and local authorities of the executive branch to provide health care have shown that we are still very far away from the fundamental change for the better. The main problems in the area of child health and rest remain: first, legislative irregularities in the sector, secondly, insufficient measures by local executive authorities to preserve the network of children's, youth-based health facilities, update and improve their mate's real-tech base, thirdly, to ensure the area of recovery by qualified personnel and fourthly, the absence of a meaningful educational component of the child recovery process. There are still many problems in the area of child recovery and recreation. Today, government, local executives, trade unions, public organizations, and others are working on their solutions. The specific question is the Youth Guard, with which I personally, as a member of the Supreme Council, became acquainted this summer. After examining and drawing some conclusions, with a view to ensuring the company’s efficient operation, the Ministry developed a plan for its recovery strategy, a strategy for its development. Today, this facility, which is a pearl of Ukraine, is in an extremely neglected state, and we will do our best to make it an exemplary healing facility for Ukraine during the year. There is a question that concerns us, too, is the young children's centre Artek, which, unfortunately, I think is in a very unclear field of governance, because the money for the purchase of travel is allocated to Minsimi, young people and sports, the money for its repairs is also counted according to our ministry, and it is subordinated to the Government's administration of affairs. I know that his financial situation is unsatisfactory, and there are many other problems. We have made proposals to the government to transfer this facility to the administration of the Ministry, young people, sports, so that we can really be responsible for its activities and do everything we can to make it work as high as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, based on the above, the 2007 health campaign needs to be carried out at an appropriate level, and for the availability of the money allocated, I would like to stress that there is an increase of 7.3 percent this year. But a number of organizational arrangements are needed. This is primarily the provision of local budgets for the rehabilitation of the health base and the preparation of children’s health facilities for the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2007. The second is to ensure that the network of children’s health facilities is maintained, that the work of those who have not been used for long periods is restored. And by the way, it's regulated by a government order. Third, increase the number of healthy children in out - of - town health facilities, and ensure the quality of health care. Fourth, increase the responsibility of officials for the preservation of the life and health of children. Well, one of the main ones is to provide appropriate human resources. In order to create a modern-day home system for the health and rest of children, it takes serious development, a legal and regulatory framework in the area of health and rest. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you, the draft of the Child's Health and Recreation Act has been abandoned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. In view of the partial changes that have taken place both in government and certainly in the new office of the Supreme Council, we are now working on and preparing for your consideration a new project that will serve as a basis for improving the resolution of all issues related to the recovery of children. Today, we have prepared the concept of a national program for the recovery and recreation of children, young people, and children with families. What I'm saying is that there's a series of regulatory regulations, state standards, and so on. And requests to you, if our proposals, our bills are supported, we can radically change the quality for the better of the whole spectrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u97	Thank you, Victor Petrovich. Please sign up for the questions. For now, if you have 45 minutes, please answer the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u98	If you'll excuse me, the Ukrainian Company's deputy faction asked about the Young Guard Center, about the principles of financing. Well, I would like to say, fellow colleagues, that the funding system for institutions such as Artek and Young Guards has changed somewhat, and today we are already, the Ministry will not be conducting tenders like we did in 2006, and all the money we have allocated, 33 million we will focus on, therefore, child service, on the purchase of travel to Artek and Young Guard. And there are some problematic questions here, in my opinion, which means that we're going to have to process some parity here, but in general, I want to say that this year will be more productive and productive in providing children with rest, both in these centers and in others, which are subordinated to the local executive authorities. If possible, the question of the Socialist factions or.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u99	No, no, for one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u100	Because of one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u101	Now the socialists will ask you questions. Yeah, I guess I can't see. Savocin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u102	Deputy of Ukraine Savosin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine May I have the floor to the representative of the Red Cross?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u103	Please, the Red Riding Hood microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Victor Petrovich, I know you personally prefer to have an active physical rest. I'd like to ask you a question. In your report, there was no such topic as active physical and patriotic camps with such a physical patriotic focus. Your deputy here, Bakery, has considerable experience in this matter. Why did you miss it, or do you keep it in your pocket like a card?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u105	I got it. Well, thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that I am very concerned about this issue and, as you say, I am a co-author of the book “Army and Patriotic Education of Young People in Ukraine” with Mikhail Makarovitch. That is, I am very aware of these issues and I want to say that we are planning to stress the involvement of federations, voluntary sports associations in the holding of such a common form as sports camps. And we will certainly work more closely with clubs and social organizations that are involved in the military and patriotic upbringing of young people. It's a very, very long chain we're missing. We understand that, and by analyzing the general trend where we're limiting ourselves, by analyzing what's going on, when we see that we're limited to eating and breathing fresh air, and there's no sporting or military or patriotic measures, that's to say training as such, to the greatest regret. And before that, we don't have any specialists in this field in the state, so surely your proposal or comments will be taken into account. We understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u106	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u107	If you allow the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the faction asks the question that 60 percent of health sites are privately owned. What steps have been taken by the government, the State Property Fund, to regain ownership of camps and health centers? First of all, I want to say that I don't see any harm in developing the private sector of recovery, like private education and a lot of other things, but obviously we need not only to preserve, but also to multiply the public share in this process, because this is, first of all, a public task, one of the most important social priorities. So we're going to do our best and we're going to use that regulatory base that already allows us today to ban the retraining and closure of such institutions. But the point of return is that it's a court case, which is where we're going to be, first of all, prosecutors and judges. If there is a violation, we will support people or organizations that are on the way back to the state. But these questions go somewhat beyond the scope of our influence, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Bulba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u109	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I understand that you can't answer in connection with the recent appointment of a minister, but still, you have, let's say, statistics as much as you have in the last year, no matter how much, lost, destroyed, robbed, sold to children's health workers. So you said 81 percent are getting better with the day-to-day, that's fiction, essentially. Because recovery is an extension of government funds, including so on. 81 percent means that we don't heal people, but we write it down there, and we assume that they're cured. After all, even in one year, it would have been better for the entire period left of that health base that we had before.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that there is a certain statistic that I've already told you in my report today that there are hundreds of state institutions working and that the process, as you said, theft or retraining, is now suspended. And there's a corresponding Decision No. 313 of the Cabinet of Ministers that provides for the preservation of all such institutions that are in state and municipal property. But even today, we have literally talked to my colleague, another national deputy, about the fact that in Nicholas, a healing camp located at the famous 61-communary enterprise is also on the verge of what has been transferred to another sphere of influence. So this process has slowed down, and I hope that this year we will finally stop it. But in my opinion, the main thing today is the further movement, the development of this network. You know perfectly well that institutions that didn't work for five to ten years when our industrial enterprises were on the verge of bankruptcy are in a state where they spent five to ten years without heat, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u112	More than building modern technologies, we also need to be differentiated in dealing with these issues. But I understand your concern. Thank you. We'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u113	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u114	There is a letter. Committee on Youth Policy and Physical Culture At what stage is the implementation of the recommendations provided for by the relevant Supreme Council regulations on the economic stimulus mechanism for children’s health facilities? And according to vulnerable categories and stuff. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you what is, I have already said about it, Government Decision No. 323 “On the organizational and financial provision of rest and recovery for children in Ukraine”. So the point is, the decision on taxation and the granting of benefits is, you know, they're mostly decided at the local level by the local executive authorities. And it should be noted that, in fact, much is being done in this direction, in most regions of utility benefits, land taxes and so forth. I want to prove to you that VAT is not for children's health, and this standard is maintained in the draft budget, not in the project, but in the 2007 budget. But the vast majority of these issues are within the competence of local authorities, and this year we will strengthen our cooperation with them in dealing with these issues and for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u115	Yes, Victor Petrovich, you have one minute to respond. Please make sure that you complete this answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u116	We're going to be able to normalize all these questions and the cost of recovery, and the benefits, and many other questions, when we clearly define what recovery is, what recreation is, and we're going to introduce state social standards after you adopt and support our bill. [[We don't have the answers to these questions.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u117	Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u118	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Minister, in the spring of last year the then Minister of Interior Yuri Lucenko made a statement regarding one Odessa deputy ésdek. [[united]] In Odessa, the public reception center was the Artek Development Reconstruction Fund, which you mentioned in your speech about Artek, not the fund. It's about the fund. This fund has collected over 600 million dollars. Less than two million went to Artek, and the rest were obtained by companies that had signs of fiction. These same plots are also in Salut, and only the land area is estimated at 50 million, Salut belongs to the Ministry. And then the strong structures of this affair were able to repel it. Now you want to subordinate it to ministries that don't have those capabilities. So in what way do you intend to resist similar affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u119	First of all, I'd like to say that I need to think about a greater concentration of state efforts on this important front, probably within a really, really one ministry. I stand here today and I report to you, I use 25 million from the Ministry for these purposes, and the total 720 in our country is used for these purposes, six central executives and all the local administrations, that's not such a simple question. As for "Artec", "Swietch", "Raduga" and others, I believe they should be subordinated to the Minimi, youth, sport, that this is a matter of recovery, these are young people, these are children, these are our spheres of influence. And then there will be no such questions. And today, when the journey to Artek costs 4-5 thousand dollars and there are tens of millions of losses, I don't understand what this economy is and what this is. That's why I understand your concern. And as for Yuri Vitaliyovich, I want to tell you that his influence on young people is limited to the fact that, under his leadership of Dynamo, in which I worked, six sports schools have been closed down, where more than a thousand children have been involved. So there's a question here also about his involvement in these, in this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u120	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u121	No, he's already written a statement. I've already run it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u122	Victor Petrovich, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u123	Letters. Committee on Social Policy and Labour. How does the government plan to solve the problem of child health care at the legislative level? Dear colleagues, unfortunately today, we do not have such a specialty in the state of pedagogical colleges that clearly applies to the healing of children. There is an appropriate perspective that is introduced in the vast majority of educational institutions. But I don't think that's enough, and today most of the camps are using students, students in pedagogical schools, students in physical institutions. And today, with the aim of increasing their qualifications, we are conducting seminars, meetings, trainings, preparing methodological recommendations. Unfortunately, we limit ourselves to that. I think this level of approach to these issues is not enough. We will consider and propose more serious approaches to such an important issue as the upbringing of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u124	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u125	May I have the floor to Matthew?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u126	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Honorable Rapporteur! So I'd like to focus your attention on two things. Question one. They've already responded to it in part. The survival of children, the recovery of children with day care, is 81 percent. We are well aware and aware of what this is. Provided that there are tens of camps that are closed, destroyed, destroyed, where, indeed, the struggle for the earth is in place, we will, we will say, not entirely understood form. That's the first question. After all, do you see a strategy in dealing with this issue, leaving this particular category of recovery and moving on to normal? And second moment. Child nutrition. Let's evaluate. Here we are talking today about the fact that recovery is a whole complex, including the nutrition of children. The funds spent on the case were approved in 1947. And the numbers that we're talking about today, that we're channeling this money to the recovery of children, that's how they were calculated then, based on those norms and prices and so on. How are we today? Are we going?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u127	I thank you for such a serious question. Dear colleagues! I mean, from the last answer. So the standard is, really, approved for eating children, and it's in the range of 18-20ths for 2006. And it's not 47, it's 2006. And that's the right thing to do. Because by 47, I don't know how you imagine. So there are norms, and they generally meet the modern requirements. But the general approach of social standards to this issue, as I said before, is not implemented. And I, like you, think we understand the same thing, we need to adopt an appropriate law on which we're going to make a whole bunch of standard-setting documents. What I'm going to tell you about today's form of parenting is that it's now implemented by principle: it's better that way than nothing. Today, all working homes of rest and sanatoriums are loaded. They're involved with those who can accept it. Moreover, I am told in the report that those who have not even passed the commission have accepted the children. And today the problem is that there are locals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u128	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u129	Health Committee: How much is it planned to spend on a child’s diet? Well, I've already answered that question -- between 18 and 20 bracelets have been approved. For 2007, the amount has not yet been finalized. This is the 2006 norm. Then, if he answered, the committee also said: Is there a plan to provide extra rest allowance? Well, here I also partially answered that question. But we still have some reserves if the Crucifixion continues its campaign to help the children during the recovery period. We will therefore contact the Minister of Transport and Communications together. And as I said before, it doesn't mean there's a fee for staff services being tested before the campaign starts, local taxes, and VAT. I'm afraid I can't tell you anything more about this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u130	Please, Yavorowski Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u131	Dear Minister, since you answered my question about the element of patriotic education during your rest, I ask you to pass the word to the talented Ukrainian teacher Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u132	Please, Kurilo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear Victor Petrovich, two questions. One question is whether you will cooperate with the Social Insurance Fund because last year they compensated for up to 400 bracelets for a child's journey, while the 800 dollars less cost the trip. Is that why parents, especially from budgetary organizations, could not pay such a sum and children would not be able to rest? [[It's not real for them.]] That's the first question. And the second question, I'd like you to work more productively with the Ministry of Education and Science. What's the plan? Because in recent years the educational curriculum of the universities of education has disappeared as it was compulsory.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u134	Student practice, you mean, right? Well, I'd say the Ministry and I are very fruitful, but maybe she's a bit of a lopsided. So I will certainly take your advice. And the question is, the Social Insurance Fund. So this is definitely one of the most important reserves. He was holding back in 2006, because the Social Insurance Fund was involved in payments to children, mothers for the birth of a child, that sum -- to all thousands of dollars. This year, it's on a separate program from the State Budget. Therefore, the Social Insurance Fund’s funds for these purposes will not be diverted. And I realize that to the 110 million that the fund added in 2006, there's going to be a substantial amount that's going to reduce the difference that you're talking about. We understand and we will work on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u135	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u136	Health Committee: “Will full medical care be provided during the rest and recovery of children? ” I want to report that this question, in my opinion, is in principle at the right level. Today, all health facilities are located in hospitals and clinics that serve the area. That's the first one. And according to Ukraine’s standards for the number of restable children in each institution, there is an average health worker or doctor. To improve this work, I think we should also think about quality. And I think that better health workers should work with our children. But in general, from a normative point of view, this issue is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u137	Please, Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u138	Viktor Petrovich, the balance of public enterprises of various ministries has children's pre-school institutions, they are to be dragged into existence, I'm sorry. If these enterprises are privatized, they will be destroyed. I would like to hear your position: I would not be able to speak with your ministry as the initiator of the transfer of these facilities, until now to your Ministry or local councils. There is a question in Nikolayev about the privatization of a shipbuilding plant called “61 communes”. There's a beautiful healing center. And local councils are ready to take and maintain. How do you see this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u139	Well, this process is very important, but I don't think it's that simple. I think we need to work together on this issue with the training committees, with the government, we need to find a way. I don't think he's that complicated, in principle. Because it's in state property so far in this phase, if we intervene in this matter. If this is already out of the question, when the issue of bankruptcy has already been resolved, or if public enterprises have become already closed to shareholders, and so on, the issue is much more difficult to resolve. But I think that in the first phase, while we're with you, as ours say, means that in the only fist, we're going to direct our efforts. So can we follow the path of Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko and call the Supreme Council's decision to ban the closure and re-profile? More than that, what we do is make it the norm of the law on physical culture and sports. I think that's a normal example and, well, we need to get a team of specialists here to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u140	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u141	I'm taking it to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u142	I see you've made a deal. Let's pass the law. Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u143	Budget Committee. What was the total cost of rest and recovery for our children this summer at the expense of the budget and the contribution? Well, all I said was that, for these purposes in the state budget, all the money in the past year was spent on the rest and recovery of children, 720 million dollars. With a significant share of local budgets, 37% growth was in 2006. And it's going to be at the same level as 2007. The government budget is increasing by 2007 – 7%, and all I want to say is that there were 5 million participants in the government budget, 10 million Minoswits, 10 million Min family, young people, 33 million sport, and State Affairs, our 52.9 million accomplice. So the social insurance fund involved money, about 200 million parents' money was involved for these purposes, so we have been working with all the interested people in 2006 and we plan to step up this work in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u144	Please, Jaroslav Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u145	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. Victor Petrovich, do you know that I'm concerned about today's Government Day and on the first and second issues that you're presenting in the Supreme Council? What I am asking in the first and second cases is absolutely, I no longer ask what the Ministry is thinking, and I want to ask if at least there is an understanding in the minister that, apart from physical health, preservation and formation, in addition to good nutrition, a young person, a child needs spiritual health, spiritual education. Not a word of this was said. I know that these children's rest facilities, they're the center of the ruse of young people. And then they grow up, when they go through school and through VUZ, then they grow up like these razor-headed cousins who fill up, yeah, you don't smile, Victor Petrovich, that's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u146	Is that your question? Well, I was hoping you'd listen more carefully to my report. I was talking about that we want to introduce a special education for the people, for the teachers who do this. That's absolutely right. My colleague Redfoot asked me a question about the patriotic military. I don't see anything wrong with the fact that we want to activate physical education, sports sections, so that these 21-year-olds can see what kind of sports they're capable of. You know, I'm going through a period of Ukrainianization, for example. I lived in Kharkiv for 40 years in Russian. Now I'm trying to speak in public and I'm proud of it. I, you know, I don't see where the ruse process got you so stressed. I mean, I think the truth, as the ancient Greeks said, lies in the middle and we'll do everything we can to get them to rest, and they develop harmoniously there. I think you and I are going to be partners in solving these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u147	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u148	Budget Committee. How much funding has been made for the rehabilitation of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster and whether information is available on the number of children in this category. I report that the cost of rehabilitating children affected by the Chernobyl disaster in 2006 was estimated at nearly 52 million dollars, or 43 percent more than in 2005. And according to our information and by known figures, these amounts will increase by 2007, because this problem is very important and relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u149	Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u150	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Minister! The “Our Ukraine” faction supported the moratorium on privatization of health care institutions. Today there was much mention of Youth Guard, Artek is a famous health institution, but I would like to remind all of us of the 2006 decision of the unions on September 21st, when it comes to the decision to privatise a number of health facilities, sanatoriums, including, say, the Yellows sanatorium under Kiev. And the children's sanatorium of the '50s Yellow' in Alushta. I'd like to know your position on such actions by our trade unions, because you're cooperating with them. And finally, with regard to the healing process itself, it's very good that there's a child's recovery, but you know that this four-level tender, let's say, a little sanatorium in Tulkin, a beautiful climate to go through this four-level tender, and it's worth simplifying it all in the name of curing our children. So two questions of moratorium and tender.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u151	What I'm surprised about the positions of the unions regarding property is that those processes that you've been looking at at at the level of health care institutions are also happening in the exact same fairway with sports people. And today is a very difficult situation on the Olympic base Spartacus, where our profile committee and ministry are overwhelmed by complaints. Today, sports objects are being privatized and closed throughout Ukraine. I think we need to ask the question absolutely clearly and unequivocally about the return of the property of this institution to the state property that it is. But today the position and sports society “Ukraine” that has been handed over to the use of huge numbers, several hundred sports objects, they are closing down today, building houses, building housing. For five years now, we have been unable to solve the problem of building a bicycle in the center of Kiev, a whole test site. So you're absolutely right and I'm asking this question, I'm your supporter and I think we should go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u152	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u153	Take the right of local authorities to find a better institution. Tulkin is a beautiful place, I just came back yesterday, they deserve children to be healed there, but I still think that involving a public asset there and looking for such a more transparent form, he's going to take these questions away.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u154	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u155	Committee on Pensioners and Veterans. What are the results of the rest and rehabilitation of children with disabilities in the summer of 2006? Children with disabilities, who are self-serviceable and can be in health care facilities on a general basis, were healed on the basis of the funds provided for in the State budget by the central and local executive authorities. In the summer of 2006, 23 thousand were healed. or 35 percent of the children in the listed category. The Ukrainian Centre for Physical Culture and Sports of Persons with Disabilities, together with the National Committee for Disabled People's Sport, has developed a set of measures to improve children with disabilities each year. The annual recovery of children with severe physical disabilities in 2006 included the final “Trust in Yourself” competition among children with disabilities in the National Complex and a series of other sports competitions. I would like to say that we have a very fruitful cooperation with the National Deputy Suškević, who is leading this direction of our cooperation with children with disabilities, children with various disabilities. So I think we're also going to be combining physical culture and sports, spiritual.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u156	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u157	Thank you. Samylik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Victor Petrovich, for the first time, for several years, we've been giving a mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to order children to rest in particularly vulnerable categories. We know how many disabled people in Ukraine, how many dead militias, miners, Chernobyl children and so on. But unfortunately, it's still not solved, and it's urgent, it's needed, it's not going to be spreading money. And that's why I'd like to know and listen to your opinion on this. And one more question. With regard to the Ukrainian Law on Health and Rest, or on Rest and Recovery of Children. In fact, it's a tough bill. Why didn't you come to him? Because it was one-sided, it only applied to state-owned, completely state-owned bases of recreation, health care, and so forth. And we need to talk to those in the field today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u158	I see. What I'd like to say on these issues. As far as the law is concerned, we have studied it and, indeed, we see its shortcomings. So he is actively working today. And I think the national MPs will help us to express our thoughts and visions, taking into account your great experience. And we plan to work on it at the shortest possible time and bring it up to the Supreme Council, because without that law, it's impossible to move in that direction at all. You're absolutely right about the government order. We're already working on the formulation of this government order, we're looking at this issue, and I realize that without it, it's not possible to systematize this work either. That's why we work, totally agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u159	School. It's a written question, and then it's school.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u160	Special Privatization Monitoring Commission. Does the government have information regarding the number of privatized institutions, rest and rehabilitation facilities, as well as the legality and justification of such information? Today, there are 462 private stationary facilities in Ukraine. The process of privatizing children’s health facilities takes place in most cases, as you know, through bankruptcy, the transfer into the mortgage of these facilities to enterprises that have social facilities. Well, you know, in the '90s, the collapse of these processes went through. Sadly, it is no longer possible to influence it. And I just think we need to do everything we can to stop this process and do a lot of things that have already been done. But I also believe that the private sector has the right to life, to be a completely equal subject in healthy children. And I think it's normal. As far as the legality of these issues is concerned, we have already discussed them. I won't repeat myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u161	Okay. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u162	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Nevertheless, I would like to go back more deeply to the issue of child recovery, and it is really important to combine physical rest and spiritual strength with children. And in any country, and in Ukraine, there are so-called structures that raise citizens of the state. We're not going to argue with that here. There I would like to avoid these political, party things. There's the so-called Scout movement, there's other movements that connect and recognize, that's tourism, rest and physical skills. So how is the Ministry going to work with these structures? And in what way, let's say, develop, support, but, at the same time, it's very important to control the rest, because it's still necessary to keep the right standards, sanitation, hygiene and everything else, insurance, medical care and so on. Because I think it's going to be important, and especially now in Ukraine, a kind of recreation, because you can travel, you can get to know Ukraine, it's different, it's big and it deserves to be that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u163	I got it. What's going on in sanitation there, safety there, and so forth, I've reported this, is being done by a number of institutions that are meant to do this. What I think about spiritual issues and upbringing is, I think, when we analyze this whole situation, we need to develop and give to all of our institutions some typical programs, not just methodological recommendations, but typical programs, which are desirable, which really shapes. These criteria are known in the state. I think we're going to work on this and we're going to do it to have both the element and physical education and the element of spirituality, and the element of knowledge of the country in which one or the other is being implemented according to the region. Such programs, I can already see what they need to be done. And what they say about public initiatives is that I don't think as a minister I have to give some regulatory positions here because these processes are going on down there, and we don't have the right to intervene in public activities, but we will support them in any way. Although if you've taken part in parliamentary hearings about young people, I'm impressed by the figure that 6,000 social organizations of young people we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u164	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u165	I'm also looking for priorities right now. I want to figure them out. I'm exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u166	Letters are exhausted, then lips. Tomenko, please. Follow him, Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u167	Please give the word to a well - known professional in the field of spiritual healing to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u168	Vladimir Yavorowski. Thank you, Tomenka. Dear Minister! How you feel about that idea. We've already touched the physical healing of the children here, we've touched the patriotic wing, but I think we've forgotten a very important moment -- it's the development of the talent of the children during the rest. So, as you think about the idea, once it was tested, so that we could gather your ministry together, say, with creative associations, gather talented children from Ukraine, talented ones, and then form generations of them so that they would know each other at this early age. For example, the Writer’s Association is ready for such cooperation. How do you feel about this? I think that would be extremely interesting and original.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u169	Thank you. So, actually, this problem has already been addressed and discussed at the speech of my colleague Nikolainka, that, in fact, if there are currently sports profile internals in our country, which are now called the Olympic Reserve Schools, and we have actually taken away, if I am not mistaken, 17 of our most talented physically gifted children and we are leading them to the Olympic Summits, then I see no contradiction in that way to go for the selection and creation of appropriate conditions, specific conditions for talented children there in the field of science or art. So that's probably what we need to think about. But another question: how within the health campaign, which, thank God, has already reached 18-21 days today, are we going to be able not only to get to know these children there, but also to discover their talents or to move them there? It's, maybe, a more global, more strategic and maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u170	Thank you, thank you. You speak within one minute. Please, Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u171	Please give the floor to the national deputy Shkutka Zinovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u172	Victor Petrovich, please tell us how you view this problem, because the cost of curing children is always insufficient and will not be sufficient to make a comprehensive use of the resources of ministries that are in principle responsible for health, health care, and children’s development. This means that the Ministry of Health will fully provide health care at its expense, the Ministry of Education at its own expense, providing experts, teachers, and teachers, the Ministry of Municipal Construction with professional supplies, including water, or, say, other things. So that more of the public funds that are being used, which are to be used, are involved in the recovery of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u173	You know, I'm really glad you're asking this question, because if you've noticed, I'm so soft, considering my little internship in this position, but when I analyzed all the materials today before this report, for example, if I even give a figure that the Minagropolitans of five million used only three and two didn't use it at all, it says that this question is probably not considered a priority. And secondly, I've always felt that all things should be treated professionally. And we don't have six central executives to maintain a professional unit that fully understands the whole issue, the importance of it, the sequence of action, the influence, and so forth, the cooperation with local governments. So my view is that this is all to be concentrated in our ministry and the only methodical, organizational, financial approach to organizing all of this at a national level. I tend to feel that way more and more, and I am glad that you and I are being treated the same way. So I think we need to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u174	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u175	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Victor Petrovich, it is well known that the previous governments have not resolved such an important issue: the establishment of a government order for recreation and rehabilitation, including orphans, children deprived of parental care, children with disabilities, children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Whether this issue will be resolved and how the anti - crisis government will deal with it. And secondly, the government budget for this year, for 2007, I mean, in fact, there are no centralised expenditure and subsidies available to regions for health work with children. How, though, does the government plan to solve the problem, and this is not a simple one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u176	Well, what about the government order we exchanged here with Catherine Seminevna, I think you'll join us. We think it's an urgent and absolutely necessary question, because it's an element of the system in this, that's the system itself. There is no such system today. Today, if we analyze, even, the healing of the socially vulnerable categories of our children, there is no system. As I said before, only a few categories are 100% healed in Ivano-Frankivsky, Kiev and Winnica, to make no mistake. That is, everything today is completely subjective. And only the adoption of the law as I've already said, and the regulations, and the introduction of the order will bring about a certain order in this. And what I want to say about funding is once again, what is, in the state budget, is both direct expenditure and transfers are appropriate. And they have, as I said in the local budget, increased by 37% and is planned at the same level.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u177	Gnatkevitch, he's already writing down two questions, but he can finally ask a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u178	Dear Victor Petrovich, Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko. Recently, I attended three schools in various parts of the Plains region. And in Dubrovica's place, I was approached by parents who were concerned about a problem, and they had recently submitted documents to Kiev to heal their children, well, like the children of Chernobyl. But the question lingers, there's a pull. People are worried. There are rumours that money - money or influential parents can use their travels. And now I'm confused at all, because, well, kids, it's like the school's jurisdiction. You will report to the Minister for Family Affairs and to the Chernobyl children as if they were the Ministry of Social Protection. In short, the question is yes. How transparency is exercised in making these guidelines available so that parents know how it is done. And I want more on the tenders. People worry that by declaring tenders from the center, from Kiev, eliminating them in places, it will again be opaque.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u179	I got it. Well, first of all, what's going on with the individual complaint, I think we need to look at it in detail, and I'm happy to do it, so I'm going to do everything I can to figure it out. That's the first one. As for the fact that I'm standing in front of you on the rostrum, and many people are dealing with this issue, we've also been exchanging thoughts on this. So this is, well, the subject of discussion. Here we really need to figure out and understand all of us what is optimal about this. Because in my view, we have not yet reached the optimal form and management system in this direction as important as the recovery of children. What we've done with the tenders is we've taken off our hands this year, the ministry will not deal with our tenders, and the tenders will be conducted by local executives in the form of tender committees that are appropriate, which means that the administration and representatives of the public, the representatives of the public organizations. And it's already a matter of their honor, of their understanding of it, which means how they organize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u180	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee will comment on this. Mikola Tomenko is invited to the rostrum. Thank you. And from the beginning, Mikola Volodymyrovich, you didn't propose a draft ruling. Maybe you just think of it as being familiar with it. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I would like to express our committee's position that we have really received a lot of proposals from public organizations that have absolutely concrete proposals and, as this year, 2007, to make a year of non-formal statistical recovery of this weighty recovery, I'll talk about that later on about statistics, but really, quality, systematic recovery of all children, of all regions of Ukraine. In this regard, enough interesting ideas have already come forward from those working in parallel with the authorities and we are ready to hear local self - government, and then we will work through the week to offer Parliament a ruling on the results of Government Day. So the problem is formally statistical. In fact, statistics show that if you look at arithmetic, more children are cured by the country or by the state. But if you look at where these kids are getting better, how these kids are getting better in what institutions, I had little room for optimism. Here's what we have in government material is information like this, if you read it all. During the summer, 18,000,238 children’s health facilities were operated, including 16,000,658 day - care facilities. So 762 stationary. I mean, when we look at 18,000 so much joy overpowering us that there are so many health facilities. But I think you know what a day's rest is, especially in rural areas, it's for a few hours they can take the kids there and then they'll go home. Because in schools there are so-called day-health facilities, so healing in the fullest sense is not what you understand. So our position is this. Today we need to talk about a quality, meaningful healing procedure. What does that mean? This means that we need to understand, not just have a map of real health facilities, we need to understand what healing is. We treat children there, or we discipline them. Today, as you can see, there is no concept on this subject. I went around a few facilities in the Kyiv region, and the healing is down to the next, and the ball is given to them in the daytime, if there is a ball, and the discotheque is in the evening. During a discotheque, there is an awareness of what drugs are, of those who do not know what drugs are. Who does not know what soft drinks are, and they become familiar with heavy alcoholic beverages. That's how it goes in its mass of healing. Today, we do not have any trained personnel involved in this healing. Teachers ’ vases, no one is speaking to them today, have to go back to a practice that was clear. It's the best students in education institutions going through practice there, they're getting ready for it, they're taking classes, there's a clear concept of healing what children do there. If we today see that in some cases we need parents to heal the stationary children, we need to think about the concept of parenting if there is such a need. So today, the Ministry and the government are facing the need, on the one hand, to carry out a real inventory of what has been saved. Because it's worse for children to go to some health institutions, because there's no food, there's no conditions. We don't have to do statistics, we have to do it or we don't do it. Victor Petrovich and I were at the Young Guard. What's the problem with the Young Guard? That the previous ministry chief didn't say at all what was going to be there. We ask: “You need 18 million. What are the children going to do in the Youth Guard? They say, “They will come.” And what will they do there? Who will these children be? They'll be socially vulnerable, they'll be old kids. I mean, as long as we don't understand who we are, how and under what conditions we heal, no one needs it. Because I'm looking at Artek today, you know how much travel there is. I have the impression that the whole country is building one clinic of the future, one school of the future, and we have one “Artek” of the future, where the “gold” of young people is resting. Why don't you go to the village or our Kyiv school or, say, it's between 5,000 and 8000? This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to So I'm absolutely convinced that I'm supporting the minister here, there's got to be one institution responsible for this. In this one institution there's got to be authorization, this institution has to be today, so we have statistics that the APC Ministry hasn't used to heal, some regions haven't used to heal a meeting, the government has to decide why in some regions they're doing recovery, in other regions they're not doing it, why one ministry is doing it, and another doesn't do it. So I think the point is that this is supposed to be a system of state programs, and it's not taking children away for 30 days to report that there's been a recovery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u182	Thank you. From the faction who would like to make a statement on this subject, please write it down. Someone might want to say something from the MPs, please. Thank you. We have almost 15 minutes, and we have just about enough time. A rich guy from a socialist faction, please. He'll be followed by the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u183	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Deputies! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. We listened to the 2006 rest report. Large numbers, facts, and organizers were called. But this number is not comforting because the minister said that there is no healing system. In fact, it was much easier, and in 2006, we were dealing not with the recovery of children, but with the incomes of health care professionals. It was not children’s questions at first, but it was the government’s funds to help the homeless who acquired health care. We cannot continue to do this: to save children and children. I'm surprised how it could have happened that children from the ecologically clean country of Ternopil in 2006 at the expense of the State budget at the average cost of travel of more than 1,000 dollars were mostly healed in the Plains, Mikolaivian, Vinnitsk areas, with dozens of health facilities in the area. Clearly, these healing facilities in the Ternopil region were being flooded, bankrupt, and still in order to alienate better land. Unacceptable, but another fact. Over the past 10 years, no monitoring of the quality of recovery has been carried out. We do not have a valid and accessible list of performance indicators, the results of both recovery and summer rest. Sadly, there are other specific answers to the so - called cure. One in three children are ill during their recovery. Each second adolescent begins to smoke during recovery, continues to drink alcoholic beverages. Question number one today. I think we need to adopt the concept of healing so that everyone knows the answer to what healing is in Ukraine. The following question. It's a matter of frame for healing. The question of the principle of increasing the pay of teachers, psychologists, and health - care professionals, with various categories of children, needs to be addressed immediately. The government needs to determine the list of categories and conditions for a per cent payment of travel from the State Budget. Keep a list of conditions for differential travel payments according to family abundance. Since 2007, a simple and accessible mechanism has to be launched. Health organizers can and should be given a variety of treatments, and travel should be given in just one place, and we will arrange for our children’s elderly recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u184	School. To whom do you give the word? Smoker, please. This is Kurilo, followed by Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u185	First of all, I would like to welcome Victor Petrovich, who is fairly reasoned, in my opinion, as a young minister, and I hope that he, as a minister, will work as well. And I'd like to draw your attention to a few questions. Here, for the most part, everyone was paying attention to the moment of closure of children’s health facilities. This process acquires irreversibility, especially those facilities that are owned by various types of enterprises. First, they don't recruit children on a variety of occasions, or they don't open one or two seasons, and then they just sell or fold up, and they steal these camps. So, in my opinion, the ministry, together with the committee, should urgently develop certain legislative measures to stop this process, because I repeat, it takes an irreversible course. Another point is that the facilities that we have, especially those that have taken on the balance of local authorities, don't spend any money on rehabilitating these children's preschools. So I think the government needs to pay serious attention to budgeting for the preparation of these children's health facilities as early as next year. We shouldn't just focus on giants that on the Black Sea coast, we need to set different prices in different institutions where children can rest in different categories. And in this respect, we don't have a very effective Social Insurance Fund. The Social Insurance Fund established for 2006 such prices, compensation for travel to health camps that did not cover even half the costs. This led to the fact that children, especially where parents work in the budget area when they work in low - paying positions, simply failed to heal their children. So there is also a very serious job for the Ministry in this regard. And the last. There were many deputies who paid attention to human resources policies, such as those working in the child - care system. In my opinion, the Ministry of Science and Education should work more actively with the Ministry of Science and Education in order to work in these health camps, really, the frame, that's what was before, the students of the educational universities that are preparing for this job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u186	Thank you. Grigorovitch speaking. She will be followed by Matthew instead of Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u187	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear voters! Dear government officials! Dear citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of the faction “Our Ukraine” to the New Year’s greetings to the Ukrainian people, I want to wish that in every family, every house and every child had all the benefits of earthly and Christmas grace, and that, including our work, our honourable colleagues, we contribute to this. In the first year, Parliament listens to draft decrees before New Year’s Christmas gifts and adopts, in the summer or after the end of the year after the child’s recovery. I would like to point out that the principle of formality was changed into a realistic approach only in 2005, when, I emphasize, honourable colleagues were allocated to improving children's health in 2005 compared to 2004 to 43.6 percent more. The draft budget, prepared by the government of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, planned to allocate 25 percent more in 2006 than was allocated by the Antichrist Coalition and the government of Yanukovic, only seven percent more. Why do I speak only of money? But because when 45 percent more money in the budget than in the previous year, it becomes clear that it is an informal approach. Why do we talk about this every year? But because it's numerous, not small, but large, healthy, highly educated, competitive and patriotic youth, it's a guarantee of national progress in any society, in any country. Today, the health criteria of our children, and this is tomorrow’s youth, of course, require not only formal attention but the attention of the State. And in view of the faction "Our Ukraine" insists that the government of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov has prepared a bill on the healing and rest of children, which the government of Yanukovich has not been confirmed for consideration by the Supreme Council, has been withdrawn. So in order for this not to be formal, we need not at last every year to deal with this issue formally, but to have a law on the recovery of children, which will include: (a) both financing and form of ownership, and the return of public institutions, which we are talking about here very often, to state property. This will be the law that will be implemented, and this is the principle of the faction of our Ukraine. Many of them were mentioned in single - parent health care facilities. Of course, an interesting health care facility called Artek or, for example, the Youth Guard. But let's deal with the unions that they did in the fall of 2006 with health institutions. This is Mr. Jurken, who is in charge of a trade union that is not protesting against tariffs now, has protested before. That is why this is an assignment for our minister today. And finally, we insist that the approach to recovery, which has ceased to be formal in 2005 and 2006, is the same. We insist on both funding and the priority of preserving state institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u188	Thank you. Gardens. I'm sorry, Matthew, then Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, members of the government, distinguished voters. The fact that the Supreme Council deals with the issue each year shows that there are serious problems in organizing the overall recovery of children. Sadly, though, they remain unsettled for many years. During independence, nearly double what has already been discussed has been reduced by the network of hospitalized children’s health facilities. Today, only 10 percent of all school - age children are cured. And most of them, I think we all get it, not from poor families. Today, we are practically giving an unsatisfactory assessment of the work in this direction of previous governments, because these problems remain unresolved over the past few years in particular. And they remained so unfulfilled, unfulfilled recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rulings based on the appropriate days of the government. If so, I can say that there are still undeveloped public social standards and standards for providing children with health care. The development of an economic stimulus mechanism for children’s health facilities and their owners was also delayed. There was no solution to the issue of child health care benefits for energy carriers, utilities, transport, medical and commercial services. Unfortunately, the tax and financial pressures on children's health facilities are increasing, and all of this is well understood by you, dear colleagues, which is leading to a significant, first and foremost, a trip to children's travel, an ineffective use of an existing stationary health base. Thus, the Communist faction believes that today we need to think seriously about improving the legislative framework that regulates the issue of child health. I think it's clear to everyone that these issues need to be discussed and made by the beginning of the next, third session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u190	Thank you. Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u191	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, imagine, 9 months a student, 9-10 months a student is behind a school party. And conditions, especially today’s school conditions, are such, if age is taken into account, they can be brought closer to the working conditions of the same miner in the first instance. I certainly bring here such a rough analogy, but also humidity, and pollination, and lightness, and the furniture that is there, all of this does not contribute to health and to normal knowledge. Therefore, it is vital that children, students, and not just children and students be healed. We didn't say anything about student youth here. Students also need to be healed. We've run out of dormitory units that we've had, and so far, there's a need for APCs for these teams, and building in the state is gradually coming to life. They can also be involved. I mean, there's a place where you can do healing, and there's an older youth called studenthood. Reporters have already reported that such a system of health facilities has been established. It was certainly made up of educational health institutions, professional and prominent. As far as education is concerned, it is largely preserved. Of course, it's not clear with the union. I can only give an example like this in Kirovograd. There were two such fine pioneer camps, health camps: Ally Paroussa and Pine Pine. Where are they? They privatized and built the right facilities, and the kids were just pushed out of there. And it's not just in Kirovgrad. It's all over Ukraine. So there's this proposal that there's this problem with inventorying what's left for sure to gradually bring all of this back into the womb of our children's recovery. The problem also arose about the images, the ones to deal with the children. There is no such problem in Pedagogical University. There are appropriate programs, there are trained experts. Every school has an organizer teacher who's been able to do that and they've been doing it for years, for decades. That's why we don't have a frame problem. Plus the students have to be added to it. And the last. As for healing on asphalt. We need to get away from this, because the healing that in the summer health camps at school, it's just, it's just propaganda. We need to get away from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u192	Thank you. Ask the faction of the Party of the Regions, Anatoly Horbatuk, a word. Please. And I'm asking you, this is the second case, you can't register at the time of the announcement. Sign up, then pass on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! You know, there wasn't one serious subject today -- it's like local self-governance agencies are working on the subject of summer health and rest, and there's a huge reserve here when local self-governance agencies would be involved in this job. I'm saying this so that we can understand how important it is in places today because of the development of child tourism to develop this sector. We're talking about summer recovery, today we're seeing that in rural schools, children are in camps with daylight during the south, they're doing some kind of work, and at the end of the day, they're going on a field trip. A new mechanism needs to be proposed, and new tourist routes need to be developed at the district level to study the history of the country. To look at all your beautiful places, to study in detail all the architectural, archaeological monuments of history, and to guide the children in these places properly, it does not take a lot of money, but it will be a recovery; it will test itself in the march of many days. Correspondingly, on the territory of each village council, local self - government authorities can arrange places for these tourist groups to stand. And accordingly, we can raise this serious subject at a cost. I'm saying this because we started this work on Volina, and believe me, it'll be more useful than the summer recovery on the basis of camps that operate on the basis of public education schools. Because of the hikes, through sports camps, children need to be healed today, and those kids who today really don't have the ability to actively rest and to get the strength to do everything they can to get them through sanatoriums to improve health, these are two key moments, two directions that we all need to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m0.u194	Thank you. The time spent discussing this matter is exhausted. And I also want to take advantage of my right, and I want to bring a few pens in line with this question and the procedure for discussion. The idea here was that the government of today, the very law relating to the recovery of children, had rescinded and thus failed to continue the line that had been developed by the previous government. I would like to remind you that according to 100 articles of the Rules, all draft laws that are not dealt with in the first reading are considered reprieved if the Cabinet of Ministers has changed. So I'm convinced that as a result of today's discussion and the attention given to this issue by the ministry and the group and the parliamentary committee, we will receive this bill and it will be considered accordingly. Today we have been talking about summer rest, but children’s recreation can be organized at other times, or seasons. I will literally share with my fresh experience, after New Year's Eve, before Christmas, in Nagoyevich, in the homeland of John Frank, I met a group of young schoolmates who are resting in Truscave, not in "Artec" or elsewhere, but who are resting there, who are recovering from Preyjaslav, Borodjanka, and also have a good cultural program, which is also part of patriotic education, which today was spoken of so convincingly by the MPs. That is, if there is, but teachers from Preyaslav explain that it was not easy to convince parents that we should go, “well, to New Year’s holiday.” But it seems to me that if you organize the matter nicely, there is a responsible person, including, from the teachers, it goes well, and the children are interesting, useful, I've addressed them, they're very pleased with being able to do so. Because they still don't understand the point of recovery today, but they have the opportunity to spend an interesting time. Because the committee did not make a draft decision, referring to many suggestions, public organizations, those responsible for the subject. There's a proposal to take the information of the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the discussion here, to have the committee prepare a draft ruling. And we're going to vote literally in the first numbers of February, and in the meantime we're going to wait for the Cabinet of Ministers to draft that law that was discussed today on Government Day. Is there no objection to that? None. The morning session is closed. There'll be an evening meeting at 4:00 p.m. Please take part in it.
