ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] After the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, I propose to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly the following Work Programme for the period from 29 to 31 October 2014. At the beginning of today's plenary day will take an oath the elected representative Mr. Dobrin Nenov Danev of 19. Election area, Roussenski. "1." Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Importers are Dimitar Glavchev and a group of MPs from 28 October 2014. 2. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Importers are Dimitar Glavchev and a group of MPs from 28 October 2014. 3. Hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy and Minister for Regional Development and Minister for Investment Design on the readiness of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Road Infrastructure Agency (R &amp; D) for the upcoming winter season and the actions taken to ensure coordination and readiness to maintain and clean the roads of the Republican Road Network, with a view to ensuring the safety of the movement and preventing difficulties for the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, and to clarify the reasons which led to the lack of financial resources to prepare the Republican roads for the winter season. Importer is Lilyana Pavlova, 28 October 2014. 4. Hearing of the Minister of Health on problems with the implementation of the mandatory immunization calendar under Ordinance No 15 of the Ministry of Health. The importer is Desislava Atanasova. Point 5, which is proposed to be the first for tomorrow's plenary session, is: Hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the Minister of Interior on the measures taken by the Council of Ministers on the issues with increasing migration pressure towards Bulgaria. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. I would like to inform you here that, before the beginning of today's sitting, an additional proposal has been made to this point and that those persons should be included for a hearing and that the head of the Agency for Refugees is added to those who are proposed to be heard on this issue. It's six. Hearing of the Minister for Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria on Decision No 28-OS/2014 on the assessment of the probable degree of significant negative impact of a comprehensive and annual work project for 2014 for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block... 11 Importer is Kalina Balabanova, 28 October 2014 We suggest that this be t. 2 for tomorrow's plenary session. And et cetera. 3 for tomorrow's plenary session, otherwise. 7 in today's programme: Hearing of the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism about the deal with the German private company Kloesters, represented in Bulgaria through the company with limited responsibility. The hearing concerns the decision of the Council of Ministers of 2 October 2014 to compensate for a damage of over 4 million. EUR on an unrealized project. Mr. Stanislav Stanilov is the importer. Point 8, which we offer for t. 1 for Friday, as it depends on the work of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance, which I hope we will choose a little later today, is: Report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance on the Report of the Bulgarian National Bank on the events and the actions taken related to the Corporate Commercial Bank. And the usual parliamentary control under art. 89-101 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled from 11:00 for Friday. Please let us vote on your proposed Programme Project. Vote 212 MPs: for 211, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: REPRESENTATIVE OF THE CUSTOMER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Please, the Quaestors, invite Mr. Danev to take an oath. By Decision No 1351-NS of 28 October 2014 declaring an elected Member of the Parliament in 19. Election area, Ruseski, Central Election Commission informs us of the following: With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-70 of 28 October 2014 of the CEC received a decision of the National Assembly of 27 October 2014, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the MP Hristo Ivanov Beloev, elected by 19. Election area, Ruseski and raised by Coalition BSP left Bulgaria. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing elected MP in 19. Election area, Rusenski Dobrin Nenov Danev,..., from the list of Coalition "BSP left Bulgaria" in the Forty-third National Assembly. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. Please stand up for swearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u3	Congratulations, Mr. Danev. Here you are, Mr. Danev, to sign your vows. Messages concerning bills and draft decisions on the time from 27 February to 28 February 2014 as follows. I inform you in advance that they are not yet distributed. This will happen after our decision on the election of the two temporary committees, which are on the agenda for today, will be allocated in a timely manner so that these committees can start looking at them in the relevant committees. A bill on the destabilization of ammunition. The importer is Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Seal and the National Flag of the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state positions with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for children with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Forests Act with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code... here is probably a repetition because I read it, but it could be a second bill. Is it a second bill? Just one? Two? Okay, second Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. And third Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft bill for the annulment of the Law on private judicial contractors with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act with importers Lutvi Mestan, Yordan Tsonev and Delyan Peevski. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code with importers Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary with importers Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act with importers Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to cancel the practice of introducing summer time in the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire (1396 - 1913) with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision on the continuation of the construction of NPP "Belene" with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision imposing a moratorium on increasing the prices of electricity and heat with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to declare neutrality, not sending Bulgarian military contingents and formations, ban on the provision of territories, military bases and/or civilian facilities in connection with a possible military conflict in the Middle East with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a solution for putting into service the third and fourth units of NPP "Kozloduy" with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to settle the debt of the Republic of Turkey to the Thracian and non-Asian Bulgarians with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to impose a moratorium on the construction of mosques in the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to repeal the declaration of the 40th National Assembly for condemning the revival process as an attempt to assimilate the Bulgarian Muslims with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to terminate existing concession contracts for gold mining, precious and rare metals with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to convert electricity distribution companies into companies with predominantly state participation with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to recognise the referendum held on 16 March 2014 in Crimea and its results with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft decision against the imposition of sanctions by the European Union with regard to the Russian Federation, as well as to state the non-participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in their implementation with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to restore the activity and production of metallurgical combinat "Kremikovtsi" with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to prevent immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic, on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to break the US treaty on US military bases on Bulgarian territory with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft award decision within one month the government of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement all the necessary actions to withdraw the licences of the electricity distribution companies CEZ, EVN and ENERGO-PRO, termination of the privatisation contracts with them and return their property to the state's assets with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a decision to terminate contracts for renting, concession or lease of state municipal natural and artificial waters with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Project for a Decision on the Recognition of the Genocide of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire (1915-1922) with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 with an importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014 with an importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs with importers Dimitar Glauchev and a group of MPs. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance with importers Dimitar Glauchev and a group of MPs. Draft Decision on the adoption of a strategy for the development of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020 with an importer of the Council of Ministers. Total number: 52 bills and the draft decisions. Two messages: In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Minister of Defence informs the National Assembly that by his order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew of soldiers from the Air Force to provide air transport to a Bulgarian delegation from Sofia Airport to Elefsina Airport, Athens (Greece) and vice versa. The relevant competent state authorities have been notified in accordance with the provisions of the law. On 28 October 2014 the National Statistical Institute received information on the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in October 2014. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS. Mr. Krasimir Velchev will report on behalf of the importers of the Project for the establishment of a Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to introduce you. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs in a composition of 20 MPs, of which from the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB - 7 MPs, from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.. - 3 MPs, from the Parliamentary Group of Movements for Rights and Freedoms - 3 MPs, from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block - 2 MPs, from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front 2 MPs, from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Centre - 1 MP, from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka - 1 MP, and from the Parliamentary Group of the ABB - 1 MP. 2. The Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs shall examine and draw up reports on the first and second votes on bills as a leading committee and reports on draft decisions, reports and reports of other institutions which have entered the National Assembly until the election of permanent committees of the 43rd National Assembly. 3. The President of the National Assembly shall allocate bills, draft decisions, reports and reports to the National Assembly until the election of permanent committees of the 43rd National Assembly, to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs, depending on their subject matter. Following the election of permanent committees, the President of the National Assembly shall redistribute the draft laws, draft decisions, reports and reports as required by the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly's activities. 4. It shall select a guide and a composition of the Temporary Committee by a Chair and Members. 5.The temporary committee shall be elected for a period until the establishment of a permanent parliamentary committee on legal issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u5	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Are there any suggestions on the content of the decision? There are no speeches. Let us vote on the draft decision submitted by importers. Come in for a vote. They voted 198 MPs: 198, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let the representatives of the parliamentary groups now, according to the agreed allocation, submit their proposals. Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, to your attention our proposals for members: Dimitar Lazarov, Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov, Desislava Valcheva Atanasova, Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov, Altimir Emilov Adamov, Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov, Svilen Filipov Ivanov. I am using the case to propose on our part the chairman of the committee Danail Dimitrov Kirilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u7	Thank you. Mr. Merdjanov on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u8	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the parliamentary group of Coalition BSP, we propose to include colleagues Mrs. Maya Manolova, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and Mr. Philip Popov in the Temporary Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u9	Thank you. The next proposals are available, Mrs. Ahmedova, on behalf of the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u10	Honourable President, honourable Members! With regard to the establishment of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose the following members: Mr Chetin Kazak, Mr Hamid Hamid and Mithat Metin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u11	Thank you. From the Reformation Bloc Mrs. Kuneva, for a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u12	We offer Peter Slavov and Dimitar Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u13	Thank you. Mr. Simeonov on behalf of the Patriotic Front for the proposals for committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u14	From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front we offer Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Filipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u16	Honourable President, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I propose as a member of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u17	Thank you. A proposal for Mr. Yavor Notev has been made by the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. Mr. Mihov, please come in for your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABC Parliamentary Group is proposing for the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u19	Thank you. All the proposals have been made. In order not to repeat them, according to the protocol, the names read are part of the Commission with President Daniel Kirilov. Let the composition and management of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs be voted on. 200 MPs voted: 200, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON BUDGET AND FINLAND. Which of the importers from GERB will present the draft decision? Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you a project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? establishing a Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a committee on budget and finance in a composition of 20 MPs, of which from the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB 7 MPs, from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front 2 MPs, from the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center of Freedoms 1 MP, from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka 2. The temporary Committee on Budget and Finance shall examine and prepare reports on the first and second votes on bills as a committee responsible and reports on draft decisions, reports and reports of other institutions which have been received by the National Assembly until the election of permanent committees in the 43rd National Assembly. 3. The President of the National Assembly shall allocate bills, draft decisions, reports and reports to the National Assembly until the election of permanent committees to the 43th National Assembly, to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance, depending on their subject matter. Following the election of permanent committees, the President of the National Assembly shall redistribute the draft laws, draft decisions, reports and reports as required by the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly's activities. 4. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:...; Members:... 5. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period until the establishment of a permanent parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Are there any speeches and proposals on the proposed draft decision? I won't. Then let's move on to his vote. They voted 183 MPs: 183, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision's been made. Let us now, in the order of the parliamentary groups, make proposals for the composition and leadership of the committee. Mr. Velchev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, let me present the proposals of our parliamentary group: Menda Stoyanova, Ivaylo Moskovski, Delyan Dobrev, Diana Yordanova, Dimitar Glauchev, Lilyana Nikolova and Vladislav Nikolov. I'm taking this opportunity to propose Mrs. Menda Stoyanova as chairman of this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u23	Thank you. Mr. Merdjanov, please, on behalf of the BSP, present the proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Rumen Gechev, Mr. Petar Kanev and Mr. Georgi Turnovalyski as members of the Temporary Parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Ahmedova, on behalf of the DPS, your proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In connection with the establishment of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms proposes the following members: Aliosman Imamov, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u27	Thank you for your suggestions. In order to adhere precisely to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to draw your attention to § 3 of the Additional Provisions: The President shall be the chairman of the respective plenary sitting of the National Assembly. This is for information to all MPs. Now, on behalf of the Reformation Block, welcome your proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u28	We offer Dimitar Tanev and Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Patriotic Front, we offer Mr. Valeri Simeonov and Mr. Emil Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Mr. Kancho Filipov on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u32	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, I propose as a member of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance Mr. Georgi Kovachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u33	Thank you. On behalf of Ataka Party, a written proposal was submitted. Mr. Chukolov, please report it from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u34	On behalf of Ataka Party, we offer the MP Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u35	Thank you. And Mr. Mihov on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group is proposing to work in the Temporary Budget and Finance Committee, the Chairman of our group, the People's Representative Ivaylo Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u37	Thank you. All the proposals have been made. In accordance with the decision adopted and in accordance with the Protocol, we are voting on the composition and leadership of the Commission with President Menda Stoyanova and the members who were represented by the parliamentary groups. Vote 187 MPs: 187, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision to complete the composition of the Commission has been adopted. Moving on to point three: HEARING THE DEPARTMENT MINISTERED IN THE ECONOMIC POLICY, THE MINISTER OF REGULAR DEVELOPMENT AND THE MINISTER OF THE INVESITIONAL PROJECTS ON THE GENTITY OF THE MINISTERY OF THE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND OF THE AGENCTION OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE PRESENT ZIMSON AND THE PRESENT ACTIONS FOR THE RESPONSIBILITY OF COORDINATION AND REPRESENTITY FOR THE RESPONSITION AND RECOGNITION OF THE WAYS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, AS THE EUROPEAN TRAVEL MEETINGS WITH FOLLOW OF THE LINES OF THE REGATION AND INCOMMOTION OF INCOMPENDENCES This is Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva. I give the floor to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova on behalf of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My proposal to hear from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development is in connection with the created, especially in recent weekends, an emergency due to the winter conditions. Therefore, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, my question to you is: what is the readiness of the supporting companies, what is the readiness of the Ministry of Regional Development and, in particular, of the Road Infrastructure Agency, for preparing and maintaining Republican roads in the country under winter conditions? What is the readiness of individual companies as availability machines, such as availability equipment and materials to ensure this maintenance? What are the funds that are provided for this, as it became clear from the statements given to the media and from you, and from the Road Infrastructure Agency that, in fact, the funds for ongoing repairs, maintenance, preparation of roads for winter conditions are zero? In fact, there is no funds available in the travel agency budget for such maintenance. So my question to you is, is that correct? What is the necessary resource for this? Where are the funds for winter maintenance provided for in the Budget Act? What are they spent on if they are not available for winter preparation? What are the options for transferring funds? Or by updating the budget to provide such. What are the reasons that led to this at the beginning of the winter season, which happened in the past days, to have companies that did not come out to clean, did not provide the necessary cleaning and endangered the safe and safe journey of many Bulgarian citizens throughout the country? Definitely on the territory of the motorways it was most visible and most tangible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Before answering, Mrs. Zaharieva, I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly that this hearing is carried out under the rules of Chapter 10a, in particular Art. 107, para. 2 of the subscribing: When the National Assembly proceed to the hearing, the rapporteur of the proposal for a hearing shall make a presentation of the questions within five minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within ten minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within two minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to express their views on the response of the persons heard within five minutes. In accordance with the procedure, I am now giving the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A lot of questions Mrs. Pavlova asked. Thank you, frankly, that I have the opportunity to tell and report what really happened and what is the preparation of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the state for the winter season. The preparation for winter maintenance of the Republican road network, which is different from the cleaning itself during snowfalls, is extremely important because it is related to patching, filling the integrity of road pavement, marking, replacing deformed road accident fences, cleaning the drainage system of the road is an extremely important thing, cutting the vegetation that affects road safety and snow maintenance. The timely repair of the pavement is most important for achieving two effects: on the one hand, of course, is traffic safety, on the other hand, is preserving the integrity of the road pavement after the winter season. You know that large amplitudes are one of the most common reasons for destroying the road pavement, and also ensures the safe passage of snow-cleaning equipment. The filling of the cracks hinders the penetration of water and in the amplitudes of the road flooring. The marking, the setting of a new marking and the refreshing of the old is extremely important because it is again related to safety, especially in the case of reduced visibility, with the safety of traffic of all road users. The restoration of elastic fences is also extremely important because they are placed in places where the danger of leaving the road is significant. The most important thing is that, unfortunately, the failure of each of the listed activities poses great risks both for the final result of the road maintenance and for the efficiency of the expenditure. Unfortunately, at this time, and two months ago, when the Road Infrastructure Agency had to start carrying out these activities, it did not have financial resources for them. The main reason for this shortage is that with the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 the funds for the TRP (liquid road thawer), including winter maintenance, are approximately 50% of the collected wine fees, which is contrary to the Road Law. You know that under the Roads Act, everything API collects from road charges and wineries must be provided to the Agency for the maintenance of the national road network. In the API, the revenue for 2013 amounted to more than 220 million. lv. In the budget there are 92,500 million. lv. Apart from that,.92 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, for 2014 the additional budget of the Agency was reduced by the following amounts: - 26 million. lv. For the Public Investment Programme, growth and sustainable development of regions and regions. - 8.5 million. lv. in relation to the update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund at the last minute; - 2.5 million. lv. a reduction of the budget at the expense of that of the Ministry of Regional Development used to support the ministry, including the remuneration of the employees that took place before me; - 5% or 10.5 million. lv. for state funds you know, every year the law retains 5%, which are not released. The total reduction provided for in the 2014 budget is 47,5 million. lv. as a result of an amendment of the Budget Act by the previous National Assembly and the update of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and as a result of the funds listed above. Apart from that, 88% of the Agency's budget is spent at the end of July. In addition, for the completion of the projects of the Programme, there is a need for a reduction of the budget for this programme; apart from that, more than 3 million are not provided. lv. to apply the wearing layers of the repaired roads under this program, which again leads to poor repair. Most likely after the winter season, if these over 3 million will not be provided at the moment, more funds will be required from them, because the failure of the wearing asphalt actually leads to the destruction of the lower asphalts, and it is the strongest. In the case of these restrictions, taking into account the payment for winter maintenance 2013-2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, it is evident that de facto we have a shortage of preparatory actions and for winter maintenance of 15 million under a very restrictive regime, i.e. in carrying out the most urgent activities, and at present for all the projects that we have started and stopped, the whole shortage is from the budget and is worth 140 million. lv. And now for the specific days: for the creation of the mobilization of 25 and 26 there is no allocation, there is not a single lev in the budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, due to the fact that these activities took place before the introduction of the winter maintenance regime, which is from 1 November and for winter maintenance the money in the budget is foreseen for the next year, i.e. budget 2015. ..that is to say, all the costs that the Agency has incurred in those two days are, in fact, uncertain. For the expected bad situation, the state was not unprepared this time because it had been warning all the leaders all week. A full mobilization has been carried out for the expected deterioration of time. During the period 21st, the Road Infrastructure Agency (RIT) has held regional meetings with the participation of the Fire Safety Police, Regional Managers, Head of the Regional Road Administrations for the availability of preparations for the expected chilling over the weekend. It is guaranteed readiness by all snow-cleaning companies to get out. The last meeting was held precisely in the districts of Pernik and Sofia, where de facto, however, unfortunately, it turned out to be the biggest problems in the end. In Pernik, despite the announced by the representative of the Pernik support company 12 ready to come out snow-cleaning machines, on 25.10.2014 was noticed, and on the late afternoon, a single snow-cleaning machine. Therefore, at the beginning of the day, the Road Infrastructure Agency was mobilizing the Kyustendil company, which actually performed the maintenance of the roads in Pernishka district, the company from Kyustendil. Two eligible passes were found in the organization of the road support company in Sofia region. Again, despite the declared readiness for response, from the minimum required two snow-cleaning machines in the most neural section of Vladaya, there was actually only one machine, which is why Vladaya had to actually use the company that supports Sofia Municipality and Sofia City, and I thank Sofia Municipality, For the highways. For the highway.Lulyn: 30 minutes before the start of snowing agency employees found that out of declared four snow-cleaning machines only two carried out snow-cleaning. The other two machines did not fulfill their commitments due to lack of guides. On the highway. "Hemus" and the highway "Trakiya"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The truth is that one of the reasons for the big traffic jam is actually the unfinished repairs in this area. To conclude, there were problems, as I said, in two of the districts and these are Pernik and Sofia. In the districts with much more intense precipitation, Lovech, Veliko Tarnovo, Stara Zagora, Smolyan, companies did much better than those in the districts of Pernik and Sofia. The Road Infrastructure Agency, of course, has taken action, especially for the company that did not come to Pernik at all. We're even considering termination of the contract, he's now looking around, because when you've been declared ready for several meetings, then you don't come out to clean up, and in such neural areas, I think you should deal with sanctions for it. For Sofia there was rather a reduced number of machines out and the company will be sanctioned, according to the contract with a percentage of what should be paid. What I want to finish with is that in fact the biggest problem for preparing the winter season is the lack of financial resources in the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. I therefore appeal to the Members of the National Assembly for such funds is provided for in the budget update of 15 million. BGN, it is really essential to ensure this. We do not have the money to pay what the companies have currently done, and it is critical that these funds be provided by the budget update. Private business doesn't have to subsidize the state! There will be difficulties maintaining and ensuring safe movement on the roads of Bulgaria if these funds are not provided with the update of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u41	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Now we get to the questions. Let them be set in order according to the number of parliamentary groups. On behalf of GERB Mrs. Pavlova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question to Mrs. Zaharieva is about the information about the lack of financial resources to prepare the roads, including cutting the bushes. As a Member of the National Assembly from a multi-mandated electoral region, Varna impressed me personally and with all travelers, this was also part of the questions we receive from travelers in this region about the growing vegetation in the direction of the motorway of Hemus. This, when you mentioned that, on the one hand, there was not sufficient financial resources available to prepare the roads, including the removal of shrubs and vegetation, this vegetation along the highway of Hemus. And from this point of view, my question to you is: what are the activities that are related, are there contracts for cleaning, the removal of vegetation not only in the direction of the highway, but also in the other road sections? From earlier information it became clear that in fact some of the funds that were intended to prepare the roads for winter were spent in the summer, precisely by concluding contracts for maintaining and cutting bushes. Obviously, this did not happen where there was a need, but perhaps in places where no one saw the result of these measures. Therefore, my question to you is to give more clarification on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Would you prefer to answer immediately, after each question, as literally as it is in the Rules, or to gather a few questions? Perhaps after the first round of questions that will be asked by other colleagues. [[Noise and lines from KB.]] Do you have a procedure? [[Replyes:..]] Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In April and May, mainly in April, shrub cleaning and vegetation activities were assigned around the road of 10 million. lv. Mostly, however, this cleaning took place on roads that are mountain roads and I would say unloaded. At the same time, no vegetation cleaning has been carried out on the main roads, and it is the highways. Mainly, in my memory, shrub cleaning has been carried out in the districts of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, Pleven, of course, in each of the districts has been given, and on two roads in Montana and Vratsa the Agency has found that there is no cleaning of vegetation, with photographs and cameras, and currently the companies are invited to explain what this is due, although it is paid. But in conclusion, it's done, $10 million has been paid. It is not left to clean the bushes after the summer season, when it should be done, even more in view of the rainy summer. We're all on the road, we can see what it is, especially in the narrower road sections, you can't actually see it. It is critically important that this cleaning is carried out on the highways and on important road sections, but the funds are spent April month and there is not a single lev left to maintain and clean the bushes after summer, that is, at the beginning of the winter season.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u45	Thank you. We move on to the next issue on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u46	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Zaharieva! Clearly, the answers you give to the questions and the report itself lead to a shortage of funds. You know very well, it has been made public to the Bulgarian public with a press conference by the Agency on 17 April 2014 how and why, and how funds are spent, which, in general, are saved by the maintenance 2013 - 2014, the winter period. You said yourself that for winter 2014 - 2015, the funds are foreseen in Budget 2015. I don't know if you're familiar with this, but to the question I'm about to ask you, I'd like to get a specific answer. At the end of the administration of the cabinet Oresharski is applied by the Road Infrastructure Agency to the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Regional Development" for reimbursement of expenses incurred on the so-called "retroactive sites" implemented and paid back in time from the budget of the Agency Road Infrastructure, which recovered amounts worth about 10 million directly entering the budget of the Agency. The sites were implemented during the period 2009-2013. Why has this procedure not been completed and what are the reasons? Because if it was closed, there would be 10 million in the API budget right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u47	You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although this is quite far from the topic, the Road Infrastructure Agency is the usual bailout of funds from the risk of loss of the N+2/N+3 Operating Program for Regional Development. As the Road Infrastructure Agency, whenever possible, from the budget, however little it is allocated, performs repair activities of the Republican Road Network, which are eligible for funding from the Operational Programme. I assume that at the end of Oresharski's cabinet this was the reason why the managing authority invited the Road Infrastructure Agency to save the risk of loss at the end of the year and to submit projects that were carried out by the state budget to carry out an inspection. What has happened is that due to the suspended programmes and the doubts of the European Commission that the control and evaluation systems are not working well, the requirements for control are extremely increased................................. when funds are being paid. That is to say, in order to consider that these procedures are admissible, a full examination of the procedures under them, of the eligible roads and of what has been done in order to restore those funds must be carried out. So, on the one hand, the managing authority is currently working to recover payments on suspended Axis 3 and 1, on the other hand, verifies the costs of municipalities in order not to delay payments there, and from a third party, carrying out a verification of the sites provided by the Agency. Exactly what stage these checks have reached right now I don't know, but I'll check and let you know. What is likely to happen is that some of these requirements will not be responsible for funding, or that the checks on the new more complex control and evaluation procedures have not been completed yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u50	Just one supplement. But, see, when a budget is envisaged and when funds are being spent, you cannot count on the risk of losing European funds at the end of 2014 and the Road Infrastructure Agency will have to save, which is why it will eventually receive some funds in its budget. You have to plan the spending of funds so that with what you are given, you can ensure that the pavement for the winter is maintained. You can't count on July to be invited to provide old contracts to save the risk of losing money, and eventually you'll get the money for it. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u51	Mr. Petar Chobanov from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, money for the public investment programme is added to the budget and not reduced the budget. That 26 million has not been used is a great source to redirect them as a winter cleaning programme because the public investment programme allows such flexibility. My question is aimed at something else, namely how much was the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development increased during the mandate of the caretaker government, respectively the API, for what activities and programmes, and why is the priority not set in such increases the winter cleaning priority? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u53	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman! Twenty-six million leva are not saved. The Road Infrastructure Agency, as a matter of fact, was a winner: out of 50 million, 46 had been mastered. By 26 million are already reduced in the state budget for 2014 and are not generally given for maintenance of road infrastructure but are earmarked for this programme, i.e. the budget requested by the Agency is so reduced. There was no savings of 26 million, but only by the decree we adopted, about 4 million failed the Agency to absorb of the 50 million that was provided, but they were thus provided that the projects were de facto without the wearing-out layer, and at the moment the shortage was 3 million. 11 million were given, of which 8.5 million were committed, but not paid for months with the construction company, you know, for the "Hemus" for years continuing project, and the number of protests due to unpaid salaries of employees and employees of this company for months. Three million are given again for the Maritsa Motorway, again a project carried out by the state, in the sense the state finances it. Unfortunately, whenever the state finances, extremely short sections are built for years, because each year much less money is provided than is needed. There also in the amount of another 7 million is due to the company that builds. Only 3 million of us were able to pay off so they wouldn't stop paying. In other words, the money provided is for activities carried out but unpaid, for months without wages employees and employees of this company. And more money is due to these companies, by the way, right now. On one over $7 million, on the other, I'm guessing it's also over 3, so it's just the activities and the money that the Agency has transferred. Only the Agency, the Ministry is nothing, even we've cut our budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Is there a question from the Reformation Block? Not yet. From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Slavcho Atanasov will ask a question. [[National Representative Slavcho Atanasov kissed the hand of Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! My question relates to the following. Mrs. Zaharieva, you mentioned that he would be punished and most likely terminated the contract only of the Pernian firm. However, a huge part of the country was blocked, and it was snowed that we expected, this time according to the weathermen they recognized, we had been expecting it for a week. It was so that the highway was blocked "Trakiya" highway. It turned out that Hainboise was blocked. Right, Shipka was closed. You know, it's a high pass, but Hainboise is a key passage in the country. There was trouble there. My question is: what will be the sanctions not only for the Pernian company, but also for the employees of the Roads Agency? Have you personally checked the companies that are snow-cleaning, because from your report I understand that only assurance has been obtained that they are ready and prepared. Have they been checked personally by state institutions and, above all, what sanctions will those responsible for the fact that much of the country has been blocked and the winter has surprised us again? I am not personally satisfied with the answer that only a single feather company will be sanctioned on this issue. Thank you and I expect your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Zaharieva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The employees of the Road Infrastructure Agency were on site all Saturday and Sunday. It wasn't just an assurance. It was at private meetings in different regions of the country in the period 21-23 October. Surely some of the reasons for the complicated situation is... You do know that in two more areas the disaster situation continues, even at the present time. For more than 48 hours the snowfall continues in part of the districts. The moment the snow-cleaning machine passed, immediately after half an hour in some of the districts a few centimeters of snow cover was formed. I set out as an example that a firm's contract will be terminated, but where companies have not done what they have declared and what they are asked to do will also be sanctioned with a percentage of what will be paid according to the contracts. There is also an assessment currently being made of whether there are employees and leaders of the movement in the Road Infrastructure Agency to be punished. Most likely, one of the employees will be punished, who was responsible for organizing the road lane. This will be on the proposal of engineer Lazarov, who, you know, is Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Personally, my assessment of dealing with the agency is positive because, firstly, there was a very complicated environment; secondly, because of the uncut bushes and trees. In fact, the biggest problem was not the snow, but the fallen trees of heavy snow and the fact that most of the trees had not fallen leafy vegetation, which further aggravated the trees. What happened in those two days was that 24 hours in the agency had a crisis headquarters under the leadership of engineer Lazarov with the participation of the Road Police, of Fire Safety. Due to fallen trees and branches some of the roads were... In particular, the road Sofia was closed for two days, after which so many trees had fallen, I say again that the snow was heavy and that it took two days for Fire Safety and supporting companies to clear the road. The fact is, the situation has been aggravated. The fact is that there is not only one company to be sanctioned, but all companies that have failed to fulfil their obligations, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u59	There is a question from the Democratic Center Group. Here you go. To clarify, the first round of questions goes, and then there will be a possibility for a second round of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u60	For the record, "Javor Haytov," Agricultural People's Union, Parliamentary Group "Bulgarian Center of Democracy." Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! And in your exhibition, and in some of the questions we have heard an accusation against some companies that have failed to fulfil their duties. That is, we remain convinced that almost again the Bulgarian business is responsible for these failures. On this point, I have two additional supplementary supplementary questions for you: is it paid to the companies involved in the current repair and winter maintenance on the established schedule? Do these companies have contracts for ongoing repairs and mutual maintenance, and if I do, how long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mrs. Zaharieva, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u62	In no case do I believe that the Bulgarian business is to blame for this. It was no accident that I pointed out only two of the problematic areas. I pointed out those in which, despite the difficult situation, things were actually much better. In my presentation, I stressed that the start of snow-cleaning before the beginning of the season, as it is under the law, namely 1 November, and the lack of funds in the Agency's budget, makes it impossible to pay those funds that are currently being spent. However, the fact is that at present I still cannot tell you what is the amount that is spent because the companies are yet to declare and bill what they have spent. I call for an update because I personally believe that it is not fair for the state to always be indebted to the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian business to finance the state. You know that at the moment Bulgarian builders are owed over 500 million only under the operational programs. lv. This was one of the main priorities and tasks of the office, namely to provide funding from the state budget under the suspended two programmes and the Bulgarian business was not paid from March to mid-August nor lev on the two suspended operational programs when we started paying off. We paid over 450 million. lv. up to now under the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the European Community. lv. that must be paid off. Surely, however, the contracts are such that you must first go out, carry out the work and then invoice. So companies that didn't come out to clean, despite their obligation to do it, actually had contracts and had to come out, invoice, then be paid, and they didn't do that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. I expect a question from the Attack Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u64	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to the problem that we saw just a few days ago on the Simitli road Razlog, in which a section around the village of Gradevo fell. Thus, the winter season in Bansko is currently being threatened. We found out from the Road Infrastructure Agency that it takes about 600,000 to repair this area. BGN, and they do not have these funds. My question to you is: what actions have been taken by you in this direction to save the winter season in Bansko given the difficult situation that is currently in the whole region.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u65	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. We're listening, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yeah, the Agency's been watching this wall for a long time. Because of the intense rainfall and the existing landslides there, what we all expected happened. What has been undertaken so far is that, as soon as this happens, the agency carries out geodetic measurements where they are needed. In other words, we are currently in a preparatory phase for the start of repairs. We must find reserves and secure that 600,000. lv. for this year and an additional 300 thousand. lv. for the next, to complete all repair work on the road. We've been in talks with the Ministry of Finance since yesterday. I assure you, we're looking for all possible reserves, and I can guarantee we'll do everything we can and we'll find that 600,000. BGN, so as not to endanger the tourist season in this season. The measurements and the necessary reinforcement actions are currently being carried out. We're in procedure. You know that we have to choose a company that is an emergency repair that will do this repair so that they can start this activity. We have the assurance that within a month the repairs will be carried out so as not to hinder traffic on the roads there.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u67	Thank you. A question from the ABB group Mrs. Yanakieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u68	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! What happens is that we usually observe... we do not anticipate the events, but we follow them. As it happens after floods, so did this generally minor snowfall especially for our region. If in Tarnovo there was a 90-inch cover, or in the region of Tarnovo, Lovech and Gabrovo, this cover was not more than 10 cm in the region of Sofia and Pernik. This leads me to raise a very serious question related to the alternative of the distance Pernik, Sofia, which passes a quarter of the population of the country, I would say. Yes, the Lulin Highway is a good thing. It led the stream, which is heading towards the border, but everything that is towards the center and towards the direction of "Mladost" still passes through Vladaya. In this state, without preliminary preparation of the route between Pernik and Sofia, there is no way that congestion will not happen and not only the snow-cleaning company is the reason, although it is one of the serious reasons for the inconveniences created for people on Saturday. By the way, when we talk about snow-cleaning companies, the imposition of a sanction would hardly solve the problem. Maybe a third or fourth year with this firm has constant problems. What are we doing? We are imposing some sanctions until the next time it behaves the same way again. For information also to colleagues, this is the same company that creates discomfort in the collection and transportation of waste and waste into the district town of Pernik district. My point is, wouldn't you finally take a little more sharp action with regard to this firm with a definite non-discrimination and tolerance of such behavior in which the company gets rid of some fine, regardless of its size and leaving the inconvenience for the citizens? And one more thing is certain, it should be considered in a much more general plan about the model on which public procurement is awarded, especially on important issues, such as the issue of maintaining the road network and a number of other issues concerning including municipalities. Since we were talking about Varna, I would also like to ask the second question: when was the last time the bushes were cleaned in the section between Shumen and Varna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u69	Mrs. Yanakieva, let us understand that these are the two questions on behalf of a parliamentary group, and then you will not use them, as you have overdue the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u70	The contract with the firm in Pernik will be terminated. Perhaps I have not become clear, but this is the decision of the Road Infrastructure Agency and mine that the failure to go to any machine at all, I think only one, and the fact that the company had to be used by Kyustendil, a delegate of the same company that did not come out to support, led to our definite decision that the contract with this company was about to be terminated and it would be terminated. We are currently in a procedure for termination of the contract by the Road Infrastructure Agency with the company in Pernik. Regarding whether the snow was much or little, you are right that in some regions it was really not much, but it was heavy and wet. Unfortunately, once again, it seems that warnings, prevention and calls to prepare for the complicated road situation during the weekend did not somehow reach many people. In no case do I want to blame and say that the reason is that much of the road transport was absolutely unprepared without winter tyres, without chains, especially for the complex things. The fact is that for part of the traffic jams, especially on the highway, that was actually the main reason. Again, the contract with this firm will be terminated. I agree that, especially when awarded framework contracts that are for four years for maintenance, the conditions, sanctions, requirements for these companies must be really carefully refined. Regarding your second question, I cannot say whether they are every year, I simply do not have the preparation for this answer. In my opinion, funds are mandatory every year just like this one. Whether they were in sufficient size, unfortunately, hardly. For a reason, I also included that the State Budget Act for the year concerned violates the Road Law, which requires all the money collected by the Wine Agency to be provided again to the Agency for the Support of the Republican Road Network, including the cleaning of shrubs and trees. The fact is that on the highway in the direction of Shumen Varna, Hemus obviously has not been cut out for years. The fact is that this year, funds of 10 million have been allocated. lv. only for what is much, and it is a fact that once again important road sections have not been cleaned. You really need to make a serious assessment of the criteria by which you choose the ways in which to clean this vegetation. The most important thing in my opinion is to be on the busiest road sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Moving on to the next round of questions. You have the floor on behalf of GERB Mr. Andonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! Indeed, the subject is quite up-to-date and may be up-to-date in the next few months. My question relates to the following fact: in 2009, the Ministry of Regional Development, in particular the Road Infrastructure Agency, signed long-term contracts for ongoing repair and maintenance, winter cleaning of a large part of the Republican road network. The term of validity of most of the contracts is four years old, I'd say, even to everyone. We all know that the winter of 2013-2014 was the end period for the period of the contracts themselves. What are the actions of the Ministry of Regional Development, in particular the Road Infrastructure Agency, concerning procedures for selection of new contractors for ongoing repair and maintenance in winter maintenance? We know that in July, the previous management of the Agency launched a procedure for selecting contractors for these activities. Where's the procedure itself, how far has it gotten? What is the relationship of the Road Infrastructure Agency with the companies that currently support the Republican road network and conduct snow cleaning? The fact that there is no long-term relationship between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the companies involved in maintenance, is it a problem to obtain the necessary materials for the quality performance of the services by the companies? Will this be a prerequisite for a severe winter in terms of cleaning up the Republican road network precisely from the fact that there is no connection between the companies themselves and the Road Infrastructure Agency? What action will you take next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u73	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. Mrs. Zaharieva, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a very topical topic. Either way, most of the contracts are running out, and some of them expired this year. If I'm not mistaken, it was signed in 2010. Four-year-olds. The procedure has been delayed, definitely. I think there was almost no closed procedure when we started our work as a service office. A large part of the procedures have been completed, but there are still those in progress, and for the highways no procedure has been initiated at all............................................................................................. The procedures are being completed at the moment, but still a large part of the contracts with the old companies have not expired. We're doing everything we can and speeding up procedures. This is a top priority in order to make it so that we don't have contract-covered periods. But I say again: a very slow procedure. In my opinion, it should have started last year. You know, if there is an appeal, thank God there are no complaints from most of the regions, but because of the fact that these were four-year contracts, you know when they expire. Much earlier, at least a year before that, should have started with procedures, even at least a year, because if there is a complaint, you know that not a year is enough. Again, the highways didn't even start a procedure. We've started and we're at the end of the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u75	Thank you. On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria, please come in Mr. Svilenski
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Zaharieva! First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Lilyana Pavlova for the question asked in the section "Protection of the safety of movement and no difficulties for the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as to clarify the reasons. In your entire exhibition, Mrs. Zaharieva, and the questions that colleagues asked did not become a gram of question about what you as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria have undertaken to ensure the safety of the movement. Because you see the problem that you are asked with the question, only and only in lack of money, in several companies - one Kyustendilska and one Pernishka - in two drivers, of which one came out, and the other one did not come out, in several bushes, unhaired by several highways, but your work as Prime Minister is not that at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u77	When I'm Prime Minister, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u78	As Deputy Prime Minister. The Prime Minister may be told the same thing. He's also very interested in tracking the problem. The question I would like to ask you, Deputy Prime Minister: during these three months, while you were ruling the country, what measures have you taken to ensure the safety of Bulgarian citizens on the Bulgarian roads? Because guaranteeing this safety isn't just, as I said, cleaning companies, guards, contracts, the money they've run out of. We are talking here about coordination between the institutions of the Motor Administration, the Ministry of Interior, the Road Infrastructure Agency and even the wire. 112. You said that one week before the snowfalls you were gathering and we saw the result of both the Thrace and the Hemus. If this is how you continue to gather, hard on the Bulgarian citizens during the winter we expect. Of course, I hope an hour sooner this is no longer your commitment. However, because you talked a lot about money, and I hope you'll be sincere when you distributed the funds, reassigned the budget, and when you gave a million to the President's institution, you did so to ensure your comfort when you returned to work there, or because the Bulgarian citizens are not as kind and dear to you as the President? [[Applause from BSP LB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u80	Now what question should I answer to the first question or the second question? [[Laughs. Replies from BSP LB.]] I can answer all of them. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are obviously in the stage of political speech. Unfortunately, the office apparently continues to be... The election campaign is over. All this time, it was the perfect excuse for everything. Obviously, it would also be the convenient excuse for safety. You're absolutely right that the most important thing for safety is not cleaning, but good roads. What the office has done is to speed up some of the projects, which, unfortunately, had become quite sleepy. One and a half years after I was the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, then still, there was little change from before. You know how dangerous it is to move to people who live in settlements and to people who are road users on roads that are not suited for such traffic. For this one and a half years this highway and these 15 km could have been completed three times. We did everything we could to speed up there. Obviously, what should have happened a long time ago would have ended the contract with this company that does not. North-speed tangent. The busiest highway in Bulgaria "Sofia's ring road" I answer your first question: what do we do for road safety? He'll respond to both. More than a year and a half later, the solutions for alienating people were not even presented. I mean, they weren't handed over to 300 people. So there we have weekly meetings and do our best to complete this project and not lose 238 million. EUR from the Operational Programme "Regional Development" next year. What we are doing is speeding up major infrastructure projects, because it has been proven that the safest roads are highways and they are saving and actually lead to a reduction of only So that's what we do to ensure safety, we speed up big projects. There's no way this thing's gonna happen without money. I therefore stressed that it was really important and it was a mistake that no means were left to maintain and prepare the roads. With regard to the budget of the President's Administration. Apparently, the president was punished for his opinion of the office with a budget that led to failure... [[Heckling]] Yes, the Oresharski cabinet was punished with such a budget, which led to the inability to fulfil its constitutional obligations. So no one is nicer to me than Bulgarian citizens. It is not about whether someone is kind or not, but about fulfilling the constitutional powers of the President, and we have not provided any comfort at all. In any case, the presidential administration would have become another incorrect payer to both the Air Force and its suppliers if these funds had not been provided. So for road safety, the most important thing is speeding up big infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u81	Thank you. It is now the turn of the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u82	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I agree that the election is over. Since we have not received a satisfactory answer to the previous question, in which you should have said what measures have you taken, my specific question is: what responsibility do you take for the event that took place as Deputy Prime Minister and your entrusted agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Mrs. Zaharieva, your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u84	The responsibility I can take will always be mine. The question is what? I think the Road Infrastructure Agency is...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u85	To unfinished business.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u86	The Road Infrastructure Agency and its structures did quite well and it is not true that there was no organisation and coordination between administrations. Another week before that, there was complete coordination and organization between the DMV and the Road Infrastructure Agency and between the structures that are at the Ministry of Interior related to emergency repairs, i.e. disasters and accidents. So I believe that the state in this case did its job well, there were mistakes that I stressed and pointed out without hiding them. There were problematic sections that I highlighted and pointed out in my exhibition without hiding them. There is always something to improve in the work of the public administration, and that is why I absolutely agree. But then, when general criticism is made without specific reference, there is no way to answer what we need to improve. I pointed out the sections that were problematic, pointed out the problems that existed in these sections, pointed out also the actions that we would take when the contract was terminated with one of the companies, sanctioning the other and pointed out what measures we took to ensure cleaning of the territory in which the company did not come out. So I do not think that the work was generally not done well. I call when calling for and warning of a complicated road situation, for each of us to be responsible. You understand that when roads are blocked, there is no way that the snow-cleaning technique can get to the locations. So my assessment of the situation created is that the general public administration did not bad. Yes, there have been gaps in some of the regions that we have pointed out and, yes, therefore, the responsible employees will also be held accountable and punished. However, as a whole, I believe that the public administration has done well in view of the failure to provide any funds. As much as we talk about what you're gonna do when there's no money, I'm sorry, there's no means to fill the holes and there's no way to cut the bushes. That's the way it is. Funds should have been left behind, not 88% of the budget to be spent by July.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u87	Thank you. The Reformation Bloc group is in order. There's no request for a second question. After them is the Patriotic Front with a second question. Here you are, Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister! Thank you for the extensive report you gave here today. But in all that you have submitted as information, a fundamental issue which concerns the Bulgarian society and should be on the attention of all MPs, somehow remained sidelined. For years we have been victims of a cliché that winter has found us unprepared. However, we must clearly and categorically say today that winter 2013 - 2014 from a weather point of view was a very light winter and the funds spent on cleaning and maintaining roads were considerably less. Moreover, from the point of view of the construction of road infrastructure for years there remains an unspoken question and this is the question of the quality of building these roads and, ultimately, who pays the guarantees for these poorly built roads. This is the case with the Simitli Roads Department Razlog, this is the case with the newly completed repair of the Republic Pass, which, by the way, also became the victim of snowfall a few days ago. I'm stuck in this passage myself. Hence the main question: what is the control of the ministry regarding the millions of levs spent? You yourself said that you found unfulfilled activities in the cleaning of bushes, trees and so on around the roads. Have any files been filed in the prosecution for illegal spending? Are there people who are being punished to bear responsibility and what is more, are there responsible officials who should carry out this control of public spending? The question that today there is no money opens the other sub-stakeholder will the Road Infrastructure Agency become a bottomless pit in which there will always be no money, and the Bulgarian taxpayer will constantly have to pour money into this bottomless pit and spend it without control? That's my question. I'm hoping to get a straight and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For an answer, there is the word Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u90	Yes, indeed, the winter of 2013 - 2014 was light, and hence a lot of money should have been saved, as part of it the 10 million, obviously went to clean bushes that were not cleaned, or to clean bushes on roads that are not so important or are really of very little use. I fully agree with you that the most important thing that each head of a department is obliged, regardless of what it is, to monitor, is what money is spent on and whether it is spent properly and whether the repairs that have been carried out are quality. What I can say for these three months is that every single repair that is being done and all that is being done is under constant control. It's no coincidence that we actually found that two of the roads didn't have shrub cleaning, but paid for. An explanation is currently required from the company and the employees. Everything that comes together will be sent to the competent authorities, because in my opinion, it borders on... I can't say a crime, but it certainly has to be checked that a crime has not been committed and paid for something that has not been committed. So responsibility must be borne by everyone. Control must be very high. I agree that the biggest problem is really the quality of repairs, not even so much on the new roads. But the fact is that when no funds are provided to fill cracks and repairs, preparing the roads for the winter season, we will see what will happen to us spring and summer will be craters. Then much more money will be needed to fill these holes. So we'd better re-prevent and provide funds. I have stressed several times that it is a gross mistake and it is critical that funds be provided now so that we do not give much more money in the spring. We claim to be a poor country, and at the same time we are not spending the funds we have properly. If we walk them right and quality, I think there'll be money for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u91	Thank you. There is a question from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. There will be no second question from your group. Now it's time for the attack group. There's no desire for a second question. The ABB used their right to two questions. We move on to the attitude on behalf of the parliamentary groups, again in order according to the size of the groups. Mrs. Pavlova has the floor on behalf of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development for the information provided and for the answers to the questions we have received. Surely the subject continues to be up-to-date, we certainly have many more questions and actions to take from now on. If I can afford to sum up what has been said here and what we see from the information presented: we have yet another proof that another sphere of the public sector has been brought into financial collapse. What we can find is that there is a violation of the Roads Act, where it is clearly indicated that all funds that collect the state from wineries must be provided back precisely at the Road Agency for the provision of current repair, maintenance, repair and construction of roads. Of the funds collected from wineries sq. 222 million, we see that only 50% of them are actually provided in violation of the law on ongoing repair and maintenance of roads a fact that is extremely disturbing. There is certainly a need for timely action to address this problem. What we see in our part, precisely because of the reduced budget and the missing road funds, is that 88% of the travel agency's budget has been spent already in the middle of this financial year as early as June. This is probably due to two facts: firstly, because of the reduced budget and the insufficient funds provided for in the 2014 State Budget Act for roads and, secondly, poor management of this financial resource and the actions taken have led in fact to the Agency not having any readiness and preparation to ensure safe movement, safety of Bulgarian citizens and all traveling on Republican roads in the winter season after there is zero leva provided for this maintenance and we have, as is clear, serious problems and no preparation for the beginning of this season. Moreover, we see that there is no readiness, there are no selected performers and signed contracts, according to the current contracts for ongoing repairs and maintenance. A fact that also creates a problem in ensuring mobilization. We see that there is no mobilization of companies, as they, for one reason or another, have not provided enough machines or enough of the necessary equipment and materials. I am pleased that firm and firm action will be taken to end contracts with these companies and, most importantly, to secure the necessary financial resources in order to be able to make these roads, although partial preparation, including providing resources for the road to Bansko, which has been lowered, to be strengthened within the emergency programme. All this leads to the serious conclusion and conclusion that there is irresponsible management to the maintenance of the Bulgarian roads. Therefore, serious responsibility must be sought for those who have led to the situation in which this sector is located. The most important thing, of course, is to realize that at the end of the term of office of the previous National Assembly, the refusal to update the budget by providing the necessary financial resources for maintenance, repair and safety on the Bulgarian roads has led to the situation in which Bulgarian citizens are located to travel safely and safely on the Bulgarian roads. That is why I appeal, Deputy Prime Minister, to three things, I also appeal to you, honourable Members: to examine the budget update in very short terms in parameters that will provide the necessary financial resources in all areas of the public sectors in crisis, not only the Health Insurance Fund, but as we see in the road sector. To provide, together with you, the necessary funds in the 2015 Budget Act, as 100% of the revenue from wineries is due to be made available for ongoing repair and maintenance of roads in order to ensure this safety and, last but not least, to ensure and take all necessary action to fully mobilize companies engaged in ongoing repair and maintenance of roads for winter conditions, as well as to improve coordination between competent authorities and institutions, including the Ministry of Interior and Civil Protection, to ensure awareness of the population, including through up-to-date online information on the website of these ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. For attitude from the group of BSP left Bulgaria.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u94	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Zaharieva, Members of the National Assembly! You have all witnessed that the questions that have been asked by our parliamentary group have not been answered, so I will ask the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy, the Minister for Regional Development and the Minister for Investment Design Mrs. Zaharieva to provide us, after information received from the experts, the specific answers to the questions so asked. Because, Mrs. Zaharieva, it was no accident that I mentioned just how busy you were in this office and it probably wasn't possible to inform you that not all the axes under the Operational Programme have been stopped, in fact on Operational Axis No 1 and No 3 payments have been suspended. And what I asked you about operating axis number two, which hasn't even stopped payments. If you look back in the last few months, including the period in which you are responsible for the ministry's work and the operational programme, 130 million have been paid, right? So I'm going to ask you for a specific answer, according to the facts, not political speaking, which, first of all, is not possible for you and does not suit you. We also did not get a satisfactory answer to my colleague Svilenski's question. We were all informed by the media and most seriously the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria to explain that the citizens are guilty. There are organs that respond. It is no accident that we asked you the question of coordination with the Ministry of Interior, with the Road Police, with phone 112, with the Car Administration: where were these authorities and what coordination did you do? Because when you clean the roads from snow, when the traffic is not stopped and you rely only on the minds of the drivers, it is clear what happened in the periods back and you did not have such coordination. In fact, I read somewhere that the chairman of a political party was eight hours on the road. You must have read it and know who it's about. It seems a bit ridiculous of you to explain that citizens are guilty, since citizens have voted trust, of course, through the President's proposal, in this case as a service deputy prime minister and minister, you are responsible for not only being able to move on the roads from the Republican network, but also for their safety. Of course, you will certainly have the opportunity to reflect on the mistakes you have made in this period, but most likely it will sound from this tribune stressful and startling question: did the office spend more than 1 billion? And this cry about: no money, no money and a budget update is needed, a little too much, I think. Otherwise, it makes the impression that you and Mrs. Pavlova speak the same language, partner up. The questions that are asked conveniently also lead to the answers that are: "There is no money, there is no need to update the budget. " This is a policy of the GERB Party. Obviously this way we will have to convince Bulgarian citizens how wrong Budget 2014 is. However, this topic on which today's hearing is, I would like to repeat for everyone that in fact the maintenance costs for the winter period from 1 November to 31 March 2015 are included in the budget for 2015. This should also be clear this debate and this hearing seems a little unnecessary if it is judged by the logic that you want to convince the need for an update of Budget 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u95	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. We will now take the usual 30-minute break, then continue with an attitude on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Rest till 11:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u96	The hearing is ongoing. For consideration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mrs. Ahmedova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u97	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I was under the impression that this question is being asked not because of the substance of the question itself, but because of the expected update and the money you expect. In this regard, I would like to say the following. At the end of the Forty-second National Assembly, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was about an update of the budget, it was about buffers to be used in such cases. At least we can be blamed for the situation we are in today. You are now responsible for the state of the country, you are responsible for your actions and therefore you must bear your responsibility. I was under the impression that you are not managing the bodies that are subordinate to you, but rather being a fact-setter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. The next largest group is the Reformation Block. Are there any colleagues from the Reformation bloc who wish to take account of the answers of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zaharieva? I can't see. On behalf of the Patriotic Front Group, will the next group take a stand? There aren't any. Bulgarian Democratic Center? I don't see anyone who wants to. After them is the group of "Attack." Here you are, Mr. Yavor Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! It seems appropriate to recall the subject of the hearing, the basis for the question asked and the invitation addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister. It is formulated as follows: to discuss the actions taken to ensure coordination and readiness to maintain and clean roads from the Republican Road Network, with a view to ensuring traffic safety and preventing difficulties for citizens. We have a subject brought about by the experience of the last days, on the one hand, and, on the other, by the unconditionally reasonable expectation that winter will cause trials in this particular area. What did we hear? There is a comment on the lack of funds, which was placed in disproportions in the budget adopted by the government of Oresharski. It is only worth reminding that the government of Oresharski left after a resigned resignation and the office came to remove and intervene, so that some errors that the Bulgarian citizens saw in the management of Mr Oresharski would not continue. If it is also true what we heard in the response to the hearing that during the time during which the office manages, there is talk about the fact that non-performing works are found, including paid shrub cuttings, removed repairs and repairs on the road network, patrols and other factors that matter to security. If it is true that we all know that the winter season is approaching, for which they have been warned, including the participants in the movement, so that they personally prepare and take measures. If it is true that it is known to the caretaker government that there is no money and cannot be spent for any emergency measures, it is asked: what exactly happened during the summer months of management of the office? That was the point of today's hearing. This was the expectation that we would hear detailed, clear information richer than what has been shown in the media and what citizens know from personal experience and analysis that we needed to gain confidence that something was done in this period, which really must precede the winter to give us the corresponding guarantees for what is to come. In a way, I disagree that there is no answer to these questions. There's an answer and it's scarier than the coming winter. The answer is that nothing has been done. The answer is that from now on we are left again to the circumstances, again in the position of observers and those who will find the consequences of winter, God willing, that it is more gracious and softer towards us, only for whom again? It seems to me that the answer that we have heard today gives rise to another idea in relation to the finding of the actions that he has taken or, in particular, has not taken the office in this particular area. It is that it is perhaps a necessary and appropriate revision of the overall activity of the cabinet how the funds, which although insufficient, were still available and were spent and paid for certain activities and results in this field. We need a comparison between the funds spent and the results achieved by the caretaker government, and only then should we look back to see if there have been traps in the work of the caretaker government, which should have been given, otherwise it would not have interfered with the government, would not have come to power if everything was copper and butter before it had been so. In this regard, the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" takes the view that the answer to these very important questions has not been given. We didn't get a convincing explanation as to why we survived what happened last weekend and why it didn't drop the fear that this would continue throughout the winter season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u100	Thank you, Mr. Notev. On behalf of the ABC Parliamentary Group Mrs. Yanakieva for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u101	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! I'm gonna start again with what I started a little while ago. In fact, we always stay running after events. From what you have said, I do not understand what is the readiness to welcome the winter season, regardless of which office will be. It is important to know that at least I, and apparently my colleagues, have not been as impressed by the package of measures that have been taken and should have been taken so as not to surprise us winter as every year. I didn't actually get the answer I expected to ask you: whether the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency have any intention, plans, projects in the budget for next year or other possible means of repairing the important section of Knyazhevo to Dragichevo, where the road is three-track and the flow of vehicles is very large. When and how this is going to happen, whether in the foreseeable future, or whether it will remain for another time, I did not understand. I hope there are more options in the budget for next year so that there is no justification that there is no money. Funds are always lacking, but some of the things that should have happened, such as events, are a matter of an organization that does not always require a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Yanakieva. This ended the hearing procedure for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zaharieva. Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva, for treating the work of the Forty-third National Assembly. Moving on to the next point: HEARING THE HEARING MINISTER OF HEALTH PRINCIPLE MIROSLAV NENKOV ON PROBLEMS WITH THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE DEFINITELY IMMUNIZATION CALENDAR BY THE MINISTERY OF HEALTH. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Nenkov to the hall. The word to develop her question has Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. [[The Minister of the Service Mr. Miroslav Nenkov.]] Good afternoon, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I asked my question about the problems with the implementation of the mandatory Immunity calendar. A question that has long been waiting for its answer and has been asked repeatedly to your predecessor. Unfortunately, so far, not only is there a crisis situation with the lack of vaccines on the mandatory Immunity calendar in Bulgaria and all newborns, and all personal doctors do not have access to vaccines on the mandatory Immunity calendar, but this is also an issue that the official or the next government should put on the agenda and decide immediately, as it really concerns a change not only in the Ministry of Health's Ordinance No 15 but also a change in the Budget Act of the Health Insurance Fund voted on in 2013. Then, honourable Minister, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly and approved a change with which the vaccines paid by 2014 by the National Health Insurance Fund passed for payment to the Ministry of Health. We also had concerns at that time "to December," when we discussed and amended the Law on the Budget of the Casa and the State Budget accordingly. Unfortunately, these concerns proved true because neither NHIF, respectively, in the face of the manager Dr. Rumyana Todorova, nor the Ministry of Health, in the face of Minister Tanya Andreeva, did they at that time comply with the signed written agreement between the two institutions. All this is long gone, but it is a fact that the many procedures, the many letters, the large exchange of lines mainly through the media between the different institutions who is guilty and who will remedy the problem did not lead to the solution of the problem. At present there are still no vaccines for immunization and reimmunization under Ordinance No 15 of the Ministry of Health. Worse, all newborns after 1 June 2014 according to the requirements of the Immunization calendar are not immunized with the hexavalent vaccine as required by the regulation. My question to you is: what action has the Ministry of Health taken consistently in these few months before and after you are the Minister of Health? Is the state, in the face of the ministry, committed to solving this problem within the time frame and within the time frame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Minister, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mrs. Atanasova! I'm going to start a little bit further to make it clear to the people's representation exactly what the problem is with vaccines. When I say "vaccines," I mean the mandatory vaccination of newborn children against five severe and socially significant diseases against which our children have been vaccinated for years. I'm going to start by saying that the production of vaccines is a very specific process. This is not usually the formation of tablets.. it is a biological product that is produced by a very heavy, special technology and with very strict quality control. Manufacturers. In Bulgaria we use the vaccines of two producers. The quality control and the production of vaccines is such that they have a cycle between 18 and 20 months. In most countries of the European Union, contracts for this type of vaccine are concluded for a long period of time in the order of two or three years, they have framework agreements with these producers. This means that when they start producing a particular type of vaccine, manufacturers know how much they will need for this year. Transferring the payment of vaccines from one institution to another, as has happened with us over the years, puts us in a situation where our needs, our number of vaccines are surprising to manufacturers. Now the situation we're looking for. In 2014, one of the manufacturers informed the Ministry of Health that he would not be able to deliver a petative vaccine. "Petvalent" means by one puncture, in one vial or syringe to contain antigens, or with a single injection to protect the child from five significant diseases. In this letter, the manufacturer, note, advises the Health Ministry to re-evaluate its Immunization calendar to assess whether to switch to a hexavalent vaccine. The Ministry of Health, when transferring to it the authority to purchase vaccines, shall declare a tender, a contract for the supply of petative vaccines. Then this is the immunization calendar, petal vaccines are administered. In the Ordinance, in general terms, for vaccination of children writes a petative vaccine. Neither of the two producers appeared in this contract and it fell. For reasons that I do not know, the Ministry of Health does not announce a direct negotiation, as it provides and enables the Public Procurement Act, for delivery and provision of a petative vaccine. I have a report from the Directorate of Public Procurement at the Health Ministry that the Directorate of Public Affairs has been ordered orally by the management, and I quote in a verbatim manner, not to organise direct negotiation. The Ordinance on Immunization calendar is changing very quickly, where it is recorded that in the Republic of Bulgaria children will be vaccinated with hexavalent vaccine. One step back, I'll go back in time. At the beginning of the year, one of the manufacturers introduced its new product into the Positive Drug List. The same manufacturer says he can't deliver a petative vaccine. Both of them aren't at the petative vaccine auction, I recall. The immunization calendar of a hexavalent vaccine is changed, a new public contract is announced, where only one manufacturer appears and, of course, wins the position. Here comes the management of the Ministry of Health, whose head is now me. When the documents were opened, it became clear that there was only one participant. We're getting a letter from this manufacturer that the hexavalent vaccine they want to deliver is actually in another pack. For the sake of clarity, the contents of the vial, they want to sell us a vial, is exactly the same as in the syringe with a needle ready for use. However, this type of packaging does not appear on the Positive Drug List, that is, this type of packaging cannot be paid by public funds. He can't be paid! An absolute requirement in the tender documentation is that the products offered are part of the Positive Drug List. Since the manufacturer has had some difficulty with the syringe that is ready for use, it is his problem, they offer us and insist that we buy vials. Naturally, this cannot be done and we are ending this position from the contract. We make a contract for the petative vaccine, as they win their tender by the rules, write a request and wait for delivery. With this delivery, I'll introduce you in a moment. The termination of the contract in this part with the hexavalent vaccine is a logical thing that has no alternative because the proposed drug cannot be purchased by law by public means. We have prepared documentation for a direct negotiation of a hexavalent vaccine, as is the order in the Public Procurement Act. I was very unpleasantly surprised when, in the last possible minute, a distributor of the manufacturer who won the petative vaccine and failed in the hexavalent, filed a complaint with the Commission for Protection of Competition. This complaint blocked the process of directly negotiating the hexavalent vaccine. To the logical question: why are they doing this, I can't answer that. I had two alternatives to sit around and wait to see what would happen to the Commission for Protection of Competition or to take a step that threatens to some extent my legal certainty and continue to seek a hexavalent vaccine for our children. As these processes flow, we started a change in the immunization calendar, using the example of working immunization calendars within the European Union. That is to say, in this document, the Ministry of Health writes: "We are inoculating our children against these diseases and we do not specify what kind of vaccine we are inoculating them with. We don't write............................... we don't That is, we untie the hands and give freedom to the next leadership of the Ministry of Health, which will negotiate for the next vaccines, and to some extent we also assist manufacturers, because over the years they have had difficulties with one or the other type of vaccine. These processes run simultaneously. Despite the appeal, the Ministry of Health on my orders, of course, announces direct negotiation of a hexavalent vaccine, I repeat. One manufacturer cannot appear for objective reasons because it cannot offer a medicine that is on the Positive Drug List. The other manufacturer, being extremely worried about my legal certainty, apparently they like me very much and very much worried about me, found all sorts of bypass roads to call me to tell me how dangerous it is, to remember Dr. Nanev, some things like that. After all, hidden behind some legal catch, they didn't show up, no one showed up at this direct negotiation I had announced. These two actions by the producers.. the appeal to the KPC from one and the absence of the other, the only possible one who can deliver us a vaccine, made me angry. I asked and wrote letters to the plants and to the two producers companies, in which we detailed both the situations of their major, major managers, wherever they are located somewhere in Europe. Then I asked the Council of Ministers to authorize me, to stand with its authority behind me and to allow me to negotiate directly again. In the meantime, I made a meeting with the entire management of the Ministry of Health and the representatives of these two producers in the Ministry to sit down at the table and tell ourselves who wants what, what they can deliver and how quickly they can provide vaccines for our children. It was a very positive meeting. We were banging on each other's shoulders. We agreed that we would direct an invitation to everyone they wanted, including a taxi company, if they wanted someone to participate and deliver vaccines. As a result of this meeting, a direct negotiation of a hexavalent vaccine was announced yesterday. According to the promise of the winner of the petative vaccine auction, November 10-11 this year we will have delivered perhaps about 30,000 doses of petative vaccine. It's the auction we've already won. By the end of the month, perhaps another 30,000 doses of the petative vaccine. All these stories that I'm telling you now have led to the fact that we have children who have been missed and have not been vaccinated as a first vaccination, we have children who have not been vaccinated. Why did this happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u106	Mr. Nenkov, I'm sorry. Since you have delayed the time by about a minute and seconds you will have time and opportunity on the specific questions that the MPs ask you to complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u107	I understand, Madam President. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u108	Guide yourself to closure if you need a sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u109	I'm done!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u110	Thank you. The rotation of parliamentary groups on the right of two issues from a parliamentary group to the Minister is next. First is the group of GERB. First supplementary question, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the situation seems much more dramatic than some of the MPs allowed it. The fact is that since last year with the adoption of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund is confused not only the procedure itself, the requirements of the law have not been met, the bilateral agreements signed by the Ministry and the National Health Insurance Fund are not met and therefore someone has to be responsible. There is still a governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, elected by the government, who proposed the Budget Act of the Health Insurance Fund and the State Budget Act. Unfortunately, the Minister is no longer the one who confused the procedure itself and should have been in your place and answered these questions, but in this situation the most important question, and I hope that you will complete your answer is: where has the negotiation with the producers companies reached? Indeed, the situation is very serious and it concerns all newborn Bulgarian children. We have repeatedly, probably in the programmes of all of us - the parliamentary forces represented here - recorded in the sector..................... that immunoprophylaxis comes first. So far, immunoprophylaxis has been so abandoned and nothing has been done to protect Bulgarian children from really socially significant diseases. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to continue your presentation and to really present all the conversations that have resulted from the meetings with the producers companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Minister, we're listening to your answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u113	As I said, the direct negotiation was announced yesterday. In the next few days, the procedures for the hexavalent vaccine will be completed. A petative vaccine for the contract, as I said, we're waiting on the week 6-11 November. Currently the situation is this: with general practitioners, this was checked yesterday, there are 22 thousand doses of 4-component vaccines available, in the regional health inspections in the country there are 4800 doses of 4-component, and in the warehouse of the Ministry of Health there are 30 thousand doses of 4-component. We have a problem with the fact that general practitioners, for reasons I don't know, refuse to vaccinate children with a 4-valent vaccine. We have phone calls, maybe dozens a day, from worried parents asking, " What are you doing with the vaccines? Why aren't you doing anything? Why shouldn't we do anything? In your jeeps, there is a 4-valent vaccine, and in the next call, thank you. We understand there's a 4-valent vaccine. The children covered in the month VII, VIII and IX, i.e. July, August and September, are 47,59%. This is too low a percentage compared to the previous months, where the percentage is about 87-90. I would rather call this a problem of interest. We have 4-valent vaccines available that can be made to newborn children. A real, real delay due to lack of.. we have a problem with the re-inoculation of 6-year-olds, which is a problem, let's say, not so serious. This re-inoculation has been delayed for months, so it's not a problem. At this stage, this is the situation with the vaccinations of our children. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u114	Thank you, Minister Nenkov. The group of BSP left Bulgaria is on the move now. Dr. Raynov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u115	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I agree with absolutely everything you've listed so far, just not with one thing that the conversations and letters to the central offices have left them for last. This, I think, should have been after the first failed tender, because the practice shows, and such cases in the new Bulgarian history there were many, I recall 2009 how was the case with vaccines for hepatitis B. The companies are always two, the same. The numbers they play are the same. The practice shows, however, that the central offices do not know what the local offices in Bulgaria do, so when a question is asked to the central offices: The direct question that I would ask, since it's registered on the Positive List, the 6-valent vaccine, is how was it registered? We know that in order to register, there must be reference countries, i.e. there is production of this vaccine, there is a sale around the world. And I do not accept the story, the statement that, you see, the companies were surprised by the required number of vaccines in Bulgaria. They, believe me, know very well, to the nearest decimal point, how many are in Bulgaria. So directly the answer is: "How was it registered on a Positive List?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u116	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u117	Registration in the Positive Drug List of the Republic of Bulgaria according to Regulation No 15, if I am not mistaken, is carried out under the international non-proprietary name of the drug concerned, the so-called "INN." The positive drug list of the Republic of Bulgaria for years included a 6-valent vaccine of one of the manufacturers. The other manufacturer, when present on our market with his vaccine, expressed the desire to upload it to the Positive Drug List, and the Price and Reimbursement Commission perceives the INV of the new vaccine as exactly the same as that of the one that has been uploaded long ago on the List. That is, they make no difference that it is about a different type of biological product. The two vaccines differ according to quantitative parameters, the antigens contained in them are quantitatively different, i.e. these are quite different vaccines, but it is assumed to be one single vaccine, with the same INN and this new one, which is practically reimbursing in one or two countries in Europe with public funds, is uploaded to our Positive Drug List. This vaccine, which is uploaded to the Positive Drug List this year, is sold in Europe on the free market. They have many sales, they have realizations, but they are not paid by public funds, and the requirement to upload one drug to the Positive Drug List is to have it in 5 out of 17 referee countries. Thus, the vaccine of one of the manufacturers is uploaded to the positive drug list of the Republic of Bulgaria. The letters to the two plants were written very soon after the failed first direct negotiation with one of the producers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the DPS, Mr. Hassan Ademov will ask questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Health Act and in particular in art. 58 it is said that the Minister of Health is the one who issued the so-called Order No. 15s for immunizations in the Republic of Bulgaria. According to this Ordinance, bioproducts for the execution of immunization and reimmunization are purchased by the Ministry of Health. You have been quite correct by exposing the factual situation around this case. It is obvious that there are many problems here and they are not only problems of the current composition and of the current management of the Ministry of Health. You rightly noted that there have been such problems before, it is obvious that there will also be in the next configurations of the management of the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, however, it also creates problems in other social systems, because under the Social Assistance Act and the Rules for its Application and under the Family Aid Act for Children, receiving social support under these laws is bound by the issuance of a medical certificate by personal physicians that specific immunizations on the immunization calendar have been carried out. If there is no such certificate, it is obvious that social workers do not have the right to provide the relevant social support In this regard, my question is related to this: can the Minister of Health make personal doctors issue such a certificate, provided that the relevant immunisation or reimmunization has not been carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u120	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u121	This question, Dr. Ademov, was asked by Prof. Dr. Ademov. Christkov as soon as this vaccine story gets heated. There are instructions sent to regional health inspections. Where there are really no vaccines, documents to be written to people whose children have not been vaccinated, that they have not been vaccinated for lack of vaccines, so I hope in this regard we do not have a problem. But as I told you, you just heard the four-valent vaccine numbers we have shouldn't have a single missing child. Again, for the reason that I do not know what it is, general practitioners are waiting for their hexavalent vaccine and, how to say, resist some of them, of course, to vaccinate our children with a quadruple vaccine. Regarding the fact that there will still be a problem with vaccinations, I neglected to say earlier that the current management of the Ministry of Health is preparing a framework agreement with the manufacturer who won the public order for vaccines for the next three years. We do not have the right to prepare a contract with such a deadline because the budget of the Ministry of Health is formed year by year, but we have the right to make a framework agreement so that this producer can include us in his plans and not be able to use such arguments that we have surprised them with our 90 thousand needs, were not prepared, did not know. That is, in this framework agreement, to write what we will need for the next three years, not to be so surprised by the producers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u122	From the Group of the Reformation Bloc? come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Without being an expert on the subject, I would like to ask two questions that I personally am deeply concerned about. First of all, Minister, have the necessary vaccines already been delivered to the Bulgarian children, and do they meet the standards you spoke about? And second of all, something very disturbing, Mr. Minister. In this room I heard from the Bulgarian minister to say that pressure had been put on him. Mr. Minister, who put pressure on you, and did you alert the prosecution about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u124	Mr. Nenkov, please answer Mr. Nenchev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u125	Vaccines that are available in general practitioners I am talking about the quadrivalents at this time, in regional health inspections and in the Ministry of Health are absolutely fit and meet all quality criteria for vaccination of our children. As regards delivery, I also mentioned that the week 6 11 November 2014 will be available perhaps about 30-40 thousand doses of the petative vaccine at the auction. In terms of pressure, I'm not under pressure to close or not sign a contract with anyone. The producer who gave up the direct negotiation of the latter, one of the arguments he used, is that this direct negotiation is not transparent enough because the other producer was not invited. As I mentioned earlier, the other manufacturer had expressed in writing its inability to participate and deliver any vaccine. In fact, what we can say is that it is pressure was expressed in the following: various people, my friends, close friends, acquaintances, distant people, to call me and tell me that this is very dangerous and that I have to invite absolutely everyone who participates in the market, as I have already said, and a taxi company, so that I can be protected. They were worried about me. I don't have pressure in the sense: buy one of those, buy one of those, or at that price. At the press conference I held at the Ministry of Health on vaccines, the question was raised about the prices at which new vaccines will be bought. By law, they cannot be higher than those mentioned in the Positive Drug List, that is, they will certainly be lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u126	On behalf of the Patriotic Front, come in with the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! What the Minister gave here today as information is the least disturbing because it turns out that Bulgarian children have become hostages of corporate interests to not say a stronger word to the structures of pharmaceuticals. At the same time, however, dear Minister, you know that in every district centre there is a committee that exempts children from immunization. I would like to ask you today: how many children are released from such immunisation; what is the statistics on the basis of which you have formed the contract for the number of children who should be vaccinated? Is it not high time for the Minister to be the initiator of a change in Regulation No 15 by which parents would be given the right to an informed choice? I am convinced, and certainly not a little of the people present here, that not all parents are passionately willing to immunize their children, especially when it comes to vaccines that are not known what the consequences and results are. At the very least, I can say it as a person who suffered with one of your children from such a vaccine. It is high time to give the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to get the right to choose. In addition, since the children are not immune to this hexavalent vaccine, could you tell us what the consequences of this non-immunization are? Are there any children injured, any sick persons, any epidemics? By the way, when we are talking about an epidemic, it is appropriate to remind you, Mr. Minister, that in regional health inspections, and especially in Burgas, in a very strange way all epidemiologists doctors were released. The same thing is happening in Plovdiv, and we are on the threshold and we need to protect ourselves from a more frightening epidemic, a more scary disease called You know about this thing. You received a letter, but there are no reactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u129	At present, the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is defined by Regulation No 15, is not mandatory for any parent. I mean, if someone doesn't want to immunize their child, they won't be forced to. No medical manipulation can be done by force to any person. There are really people who do not want to immunize their children for different reasons. Here, however, we turn to impartial science statistics. It has been proven absolutely certain that I am opening a clamp: the modern vaccines that are used in Bulgaria are a high-tech product of the pharmaceutical industry. They do not contain diseased organisms. They contain particles of diseased organisms so that a person's immune system recognizes them and can react quickly and effectively in a new encounter with them. The side effects of the vaccines that you are talking about are the fact that they are present as with any medicine. But statistics say that the application of certain types of vaccines prevents the development of these scary diseases in society. On your question, whether there are any such cases, there have been 1993 Diphtheria, single cases in non-immunosised patients -- tetanus, three cases of polio in 2001 in unimmunized children. Polyomelititis is an extremely cruel disease that takes life and mutilates children. We are facing, albeit at low risk, the introduction of polio into the country through refugees coming from outside. People entering the Republic of Bulgaria are very strictly controlled. They're passing through Turkey. They're also immunized with a live polio vaccine. The risk isn't too high, but if it does, it'll be terrible. There are people, unfortunately, I have friends who do not want to immunize their children in our program. Nobody's obliged to do that. With regard to Burgas there are two inspections. Both checks have ended by establishing that there is no violation of those colleagues' removals there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u130	Thank you, Minister. While I give the floor to the next one, perhaps we should really consider those diseases that affect public health, too, to change this liberal regime. I don't want to get into the essence of this discussion. The next group is the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Are there any questions on their part? I won't. Mr. Chukolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, it must have been very difficult to negotiate with these companies. You've been pretty scared. You didn't even tell them their names here. Go out and name the distributors and the names of these manufacturers! Let the Bulgarian society know who these companies are who make profits from each of us. When we leave this tribune, you know, it's written in the rules, it has to be declared whether there is a conflict of interest. Please declare whether or not your family members are in a healthcare business. See, here I'm telling you that my family members in this business don't have any, but I have a huge personal interest because I'm a parent. You say that these immunizations are not mandatory, but actually mandatory. In fact, they are mandatory because both the laws and the rules for fulfilling the laws there are such bonds that children should be immune to. If this does not happen, as the colleague said, there will be no social benefits, there will be no enrollment in schools and so on. We have to be clear, immunization is mandatory at the moment. And Bulgaria has signed many international documents. In the field of medicine and biology should be respected in a specific way. The information consent of the person concerned under the terms and conditions laid down by law. This is written in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. I'll give you another quote. This is from the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine: Any health-related intervention is carried out only with free and conscious consent of the person concerned. This person shall receive the necessary information in advance on the nature of the intervention and on the consequences and risks arising thereof. We are very strongly saying that we are going to introduce the relevant changes to the relevant laws in order to make sure that every Bulgarian parent has the right to an informed choice, that every Bulgarian citizen has the right to know clearly the risks that these immunizations carry. We're talking about a hexavalent vaccine here, how important it was to buy it. Right now, my colleagues tell me there's a ten-valent vaccine in the U.S. In a year, after two years, these manufacturers will begin to develop the thesis of how if we don't have a ten-valent vaccine here, how bad it will be for our people. And do these manufacturers say what risks these vaccines carry?! Have they informed the Bulgarian society about this? Do you require this of them? Let's start there, not who cornered you. They will naturally push because it is their job. Because they abuse you! These are people who run a fear business. Of course, every parent, every person wants to be healthy. It's a fear business! We shouldn't let people like that racketeer us! I am graduating, I say clearly and categorically...................................................................................................................................................................... Let's not make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u132	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u133	I just mentioned that immunization in Bulgaria is not mandatory and no one obliges parents to do so. You are absolutely right, Mr. Chukolov, that no patient can and should not have medical manipulation of any kind without his consent. This is enshrined in the principles of good medical practice, in general and in our country. In terms of immunization. My daughter is immune. Personally, as a doctor and as a person, I am emphatically responsible for dealing with these horrible, horrible, terrible diseases. With regard to the names of these companies, which, thank God, I didn't feel fear. My legal advisor insists I don't say their names so we don't put them in an ad campaign. That's what he says. That's why I can't mention their names from this tribune, Mr. Chukolov, on the advice of my legal advisor. Thank you. [[Replication of MP Stanislav Stanilov. Rejoice in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u134	I'm asking you to calm down. ABB's group is the next question. Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, you have started with the vaccines since the beginning of the current crisis. I'd like to start a little early. There have always been problems with vaccines and there will probably still be problems until there is a unified and lasting concept of who delivers, who finances, who performs this extremely important activity. Unfortunately, regulations are so common that we people who are doctors and who are in health care sometimes get confused about the responsibilities of individual institutions. Your response revealed that there are still vaccines, but there are no vaccinations. You know that among the performers of vaccinations there is an unspoken neglect, not to mention a negative attitude towards this manipulation. My question is: after there are vaccines and after the Ministry is informed that for unknown reasons the general practitioners do not implement the immunization programs, what measures did the Ministry take against the people who do not fulfil their duties in the entire health system of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u136	Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the answer to Mr. Kuchukov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u137	All received signals at the Ministry of Health that general practitioners refuse vaccination with a quadrivalent vaccine, are immediately forwarded to regional health inspections. There are fined colleagues. At this stage, I am unable to answer how many these fined colleagues are. Regional health inspections shall be kept in constant contact with this particular issue. Indeed, the tensions in our society are great. In fact, we have some volume of vaccines, and we are left with none. I hope that with the new delivery, when it becomes clear that we have a five- and six-valent vaccine available, this issue will be resolved once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u138	Finish the first round of questions. Do you have a second question from the GERB Parliamentary Group? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u139	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I declare that I come from primary medical care, I carry out vaccines and I am fully aware of the problem and delay of the immunization calendar, which is realized in the Republic of Bulgaria and its change since 1 July 2014. There was a real problem with the delivery. It is currently decided and immunizations are being made against four diseases and the fifth additional. All this is arranged for newborns after July 1st, but the problem is that this leads to problems with the implementation of the mandatory immunization calendar for the six-year-olds. Vaccines given to newborns are seized as amounts needed for this age. The great concern of both practitioners and those working in the system is that the regulation has not changed. Regulation No 15 has a six-component vaccine and it is assumed that once this regulation is up to date, doctors should work with it. The concern is that, working with the new vaccine on documents that are an indication from the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, this leads to a certain regulatory risk. Those working in practice can be vulnerable because the officially published regulation in the Official Journal of the European Union is as from 1 July. This regulatory inaccuracies and misconception really does cause difficulties mainly to workers and parents using vaccines. I am particularly worried because, unfortunately, such unpleasant phenomena as the vaccine trade, even in certain places in Bulgaria, can be realized and registered with imports of vaccines from neighbouring countries. I very much want the Ministry of Health to clear this problem and very clearly give instructions before the colleagues are punished for the fact that the regulation is currently such or that it should be changed in a timely manner, because it is in the Ministry of Health's commitments so that the period in which the negotiations of new bioproducts are under way can be sufficiently smoothly overcome without creating tension in society. I would remind you that since yesterday it is 100 years since the birth of Dr. Jonas Solk, the creator of the polio vaccine, a disease eradicated from Europe. Bulgaria is also an area free of polio. Vaccines are the greatest achievement of modern medical science, as well as antibiotics, and all doctors who have the understanding that scary diseases are not precisely due to vaccines should pass this belief on to patients. We, from Parliament, who are committed and concerned about the health of the nation, must definitely hold on to prevention and promotion as the main element of a stronger Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u140	Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u141	At the end of August, Dr. Daritkova, there was a warrant issued by the Minister of Health for withdrawal of a quadrivalent vaccine to general practitioners for re-vaccination. Pretend it's better to suffer a little re-inoculation of the six-year-olds than of the newborns. There is a document that allows colleagues to work with a quadrivalent vaccine. Their concern is that children should be stabbed twice. It's really very unpleasant, but that's the way it is right now. I fully join what you said about immunoprophylaxis, both as a doctor and as a health minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u142	The next question is from BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Raynov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm going back to the first question I asked you. There was a problem with the registration of the hexavalent vaccine on the Positive List, as you said by international name, under the so-called ICN, only the vaccine that was registered ten years ago, if I remember correctly, its permission was suspended five years ago. So clearly there was some problem with the registration of the hexavalent vaccine on the Positive List. From now on, I do not accept what you have said, not to mention money, and that the price will in any case be lower than the one registered in the Positive Commission. Finally, without quoting companies without quoting names of vaccines, just say multiple: what is the difference between the amount paid for the quadrivalent, petvalent and now the hexavalent vaccines? Do you know that since 2012, when they are actually registered, hexavalent vaccines have a centralised European permit, that their permission is conditional, that is, there is a black triangle on the packaging, which means that within two years data on possible side effects of these vaccines must be collected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u144	Come in for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u145	Looking at the letter of the law, Dr. Raynov, the registration of the hexavalent vaccine is absolutely pure, legal. The fact is that the European Medicines Agency has placed this vaccine under special surveillance, marking it with the triangle you are talking about. This means that anyone who administers the vaccine should carefully monitor their patients for side effects and for incompatibility. This requirement of the European Medicines Agency, this triangle will be removed in two or five years' time in case of monitoring of the patients to whom it is administered. This vaccine has undergone all the necessary tests and procedures to be registered with the European Medicines Agency. By registering it with the European Agency, it is automatically registered in the country. Her uploading to the positive drug list, I said it a little while ago, and by the letter of the law, it's completely legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u146	Again from the group of DPS Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, obviously the topic, if we allow ourselves to sum it up, will be in complete harmony with the status of Bulgarian healthcare at the moment. In view of this, I would like to congratulate the importer of this question to this hearing. The subject is so extensive, it would take a long time. I'll settle for just two aspects, two points of view. In the first place, I think it is unnecessary to politicize the topic of vaccinations. Obviously, the specific case has occurred due to the accumulation of several circumstances, and here again we can summarize: there is no innocent. In this regard, I have a specific question. You said you didn't know the reason for the direct negotiation of the ex-minister in the spring that the direct contract was not made. A suggestion at least about whether you do not have, because it sums up the allusions that once again compromise the Bulgarian political class. Secondly, the second aspect of you have been a minister for several months now, you have a view not only on this topic, but also in a broader one, I suppose, an aspect of the National Assembly may not only through its control functions to the executive power, through legislative activity, influence this process, on this case, so that there are no problems from now on? Your particular opinion. I mean, in exceptional, exceptional, force majeure circumstances, if there is a change in the legislation..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There cannot, in my opinion, be an informed choice provided that public health is at risk, as is the case in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u148	Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u149	The possibility of direct negotiation, Mr. Kardzhaliev, you know very well, is provided for in the Public Procurement Act and this is the next step when a specific contract cannot be executed. I did it this way. I assume that's a logical step. I have no idea why Dr. Andreeva didn't do it. She was right by law. There's no reference to the political class. I told a story. It is very nice that you open the floor on how the National Assembly can be useful to the health system. Very much! In the particular case of vaccines, however, I believe that the situation for the next management of the Ministry of Health will be much easier for two reasons. First, we changed the immunization calendar, which no longer contains six valence vaccines. That is, the Ministry of Health will be able to negotiate vaccines with whatever producers can participate, and not so that the immunization calendar can be changed every month. Secondly, what I mentioned earlier about the Framework Agreement with a producer or producers on the delivery of vaccines for the next three years will provide security of supply and will probably prevent such crises. That is, at this stage, for this situation with vaccines, I believe that the intervention of the National Assembly is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u150	Thank you. The Reformation Bloc has the floor for a question, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, of course, there is no doubt about me in your kindness and desire to resolve as soon as possible the matter and our children can be provided, as we are all convinced and I as a father of three children and already four grandchildren, as well as my colleague Chukolov am personally interested. Otherwise, by his call, I don't deal with any vaccines or anything like that. But from what Dr. Raynov mentioned here, it seemed to me that I had heard something different about prices in terms of announced, claimed, talked about 4 million for 70,000 doses, and 9 million for 90 thousand doses. I suppose there's an explanation for these questions. If you have these numbers in your head, be so kind as to clarify a little bit more, as indeed, as my colleague Kardzhaliev here mentioned, we want to help the National Assembly. That's the goal, I suppose, of the importer of this questioning colleague Dessislava Atanasova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u152	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. Here you are, Mr. Minister, to answer, as once again the question of the price difference is raised according to the volatility of vaccines.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u153	Higher valence vaccine, which means with more antigens inside it, of course, is more expensive. Standing here on this stage, I can't afford to improvise. Unfortunately, at this point, I can't mention exact numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u154	That's the subject of the hearing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u155	Of course, but I can't mention exact numbers right now. I am ready at every moment from here on, when you invite me, ladies and gentlemen, to appear before you with absolutely accurate figures for this and for last year what has been spent, how much it costs, which is on the Positive Drug List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u156	Welcome from the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u157	Good afternoon! Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Colleagues, I just want to say a few things. First of all, Bulgarian mothers do not care about who is the Minister of Health. They're interested in what they do for their children. They are also not interested in who finances the purchase of vaccines. "Whether the National Health Insurance Fund or the Ministry of Health. In this context, I've always wondered why when one thing works, we should spoil it? However, I ask myself: how can 100,000 vaccines, according to the data given by the Minister, not be used? What are you waiting for? Waiting for the contest to come, which should provide the hexavalent vaccines, to expire the term of the quadruple and then scrap them out? Dear Minister, my question is: who will take responsibility for the inconveniences created by Bulgarian mothers and Bulgarian families?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. For an answer, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u159	I fully agree with you, lady, that Bulgarian mothers should not be interested in who is the Minister of Health and what his problems are. I assure the people of the country that no vaccine will be disposed of by the people we currently have. One of the indicators under which contracts for purchase and public procurement are concluded is the shelf-life of vaccines. Let's say, during my term of office, no vaccine will be disposed of. I am sure that during the term of my heir, no vaccine will be discarded either. About responsibility. I have come here to tell the people who have chosen the series of events that have led us to this crisis. Since I am now the Minister of Health, it is obviously my responsibility at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u160	Thank you, Minister Nenkov. There is a question from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Is there a wish for a second question? I can't see. Ataka is giving me a sign that there are no willing ones. Come on in on behalf of the ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u161	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, my second question is related to vaccination and immunization prevention in general, albeit in a slightly different aspect. From your presentation and from the speech of colleagues it is understood how important immunization prevention is, how many diseases have been avoided, how many human lives have been saved and at the same time that this cannot be absolutely mandatory for each one. However, the last months and years have impressed me that more and more parents are either giving up or trying in some way to avoid this immunization, or at least they face it with great doubt. This is due to the random or not campaign that describes all sorts of apocalyptic stories when using vaccines: dead children, paralyzed, comatose and so on. Does the Ministry of Health and, if I do, when and in what way, make it clear to the Bulgarian public the benefit and risk of these vaccinations so that each parent is truly informed and not informed to decide on the immunization of their children?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. For an answer, Minister Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u163	In recent years, there has been, how can I say, such a rather media tendency to show cases of children who have suffered from the administration of vaccine. However, the study of these cases showed that some of them were not at all related to a vaccine problem. Like any medical manipulation, like any medicine, vaccines have side effects. These side effects are described in the documentation of each medicine that enters the Republic of Bulgaria. Doctors who vaccinate the children Dr. Daritkova, you will confirm, are familiar and acquaint you, I hope, the parents of the children with these effects and the need for immunoprophylaxis. That's a great idea you're giving me. Unfortunately, I won't have time to carry it out, but it is a wonderful idea for the Ministry of Health to have its own information program in relation to the immunization of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u164	Thank you, Minister Nenkov. The round of questions on behalf of parliamentary groups has been completed. We're moving on to the Minister's response. From the group of GERB Ms. Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I'm using Mr. Chukolov's call to declare that I have no conflict of interest, that I neither have any members of my family's relationship with pharmaceutical companies. With regard to today's question, it is good that the National Assembly has examined and heard the information provided by the Minister of Health because this topic is speculated. The bad news is that the debate on how the current problems can be solved has been slightly shifted with the debate on the.................................. I think it's indisputable, Mr. Minister, that our society has appreciated the benefits of immunoprophylaxis. Dr Daritkova noted in his question that yesterday they were 100 years old from the death of the discoverer of the polio vaccine. About what Bulgaria's immunization calendar is, I am obliged to say, and it is a pity that I have the honour to educate some of my colleagues "Regulation No 15" concerns the mandatory, recommended and targeted vaccines for immunoprophylaxis in Bulgaria. And yes, right, every patient or his guardian is entitled to informed consent and choice and sign for it. But in Bulgaria, as a country that adopted a number of conventions, including the World Health Organization, all our legislation is aimed at having a mandatory immunization calendar. It was good that it became clear to all of us in this House that because of bad management decisions it came to this situation, but it is good that there is still a way out and that the team of the Ministry is trying to take different actions to ensure all mandatory vaccines and those for reimmunization on the mandatory immune calendar of Ordinance No 15. I hope, Mr. Minister, that very soon, as you have announced in your exposition, within a few days, all procedures will be completed and vaccines for immunoprophylaxis and newborns will be provided after the second month, and the vaccines necessary for the reimmunization of the 6-year-olds. We, as a legislative body, are always ready to discuss in the various committees of the National Assembly any legislative initiatives related to easing the public procurement regime and direct negotiation when it comes to the life and health of Bulgarian citizens or those that create conditions for a framework agreement and overcome any problems that would arise from such a situation. Thank you for your attention and for your comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. For attitude from the group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you are, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Yes, the answers were comprehensive, but let's say something else. It is now time for the state to become in its role so that such cases in healthcare are no longer allowed, the bending of the hands, the pressing of any minister, no matter what political power, because when the state is in place, when the laws are respected, problems are not or are kept to a minimum. For reference, look at the fines imposed in countries of the European Union, even in America, on companies that have been inadequately correct, on companies that have not properly advertised in order not to get what you yourself have said in the event of quadruple vaccines that colleagues do not wish to immunise with them. So, dear colleagues, it is the responsibility of the state and it must be in its place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u168	Thank you. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Ademov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In our view, the meaning of this hearing, the meaning of this discussion, is that we should also hear the actual factual information about this case and its decision, and in trying to bring the National Assembly together around proposals that would enable each of the next Minister of Health to have flexible instruments in order to be able to realise the public interest. In no way can any commercial or commercial interest dominate the public interest. In this case, the public interest is to ensure the immunization of organic products to realize the immunization calendar. In this sense, I and the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are prepared to support all initiatives of the MPs from all parliamentary groups, initiatives of the Ministry of Health to arm the Ministry of Health with flexible response tools in such cases. Because, again, it is not possible for commercial interest to dominate the public interest. And the public, the public interest is linked to eliminating any possibilities for allowing the spread of socially significant diseases. Thanks to the mandatory nature of some of the vaccines, such diseases have been eradicated, which were mentioned earlier as polio. Therefore, we must do everything possible within this Chamber of the National Assembly if we are to amend both the Public Procurement Act and any other laws that treat this matter in order to give the Minister of Health the flexibility to resolve these issues. And as for whether they should be mandatory, recommended or targeted, as stated in Ordinance No 15, part of immunizations and reimmunizations, it is here that we refer to the question which is within the scope of science called deantology. Dentology is the science that deals with the relationship between a doctor, a doctor, a patient, a doctor, a loved one of the patients. In this case, we should not avoid legal procedures which regulate indications, contraindications and delay the administration of one or another vaccine. So the public interest is to have a significantly high level of immunization coverage to protect all Bulgarian citizens. In this direction, I think that the discussion that we have today can help solve the problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. On behalf of the Reformation Block Group, there are no willing ones. Next, the group of the Patriotic Front will not take sides, then are the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u171	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, from what I've heard so far, I have the impression that you are competent, understanding and conscientious minister and doctor. My line from the place was about your refusal to name the pharmaceutical companies with which this story was played and their owners. Your legal advisor has forgotten to tell you that this is a National Assembly, not a media, and we want to know who, what games he's playing. From all the things that you have put out, I have concluded that these companies have been playing a cartel, it has another name - a mafia, for example, or something of this kind - a healthy octopus, as you call it a television station and so on. And the place of this game is in the Competition Commission, where you should be signaling. You didn't probably do it out of correctness and there is a relative doubt whether this committee will take action, but this is the way. As for the moods in society against vaccines, this is produced from the outside, because there is such a problem in the world: the major pharmaceutical companies around the world sometimes fake false concerns to sell their products at very high prices and mass. This is some work, even cases are being conducted in the United States, in Europe. Everyone knows that, and you know it, and from there in our society there is such an attitude to the harm of vaccines. Otherwise, as Dr Daritkova said, vaccines and antibiotics are the greatest achievement in the history of medicine so far. Our attitude towards vaccines is such that our political power has always kept parents from making a personal decision and they have the last word. And the right last word they will have if they are well informed and in this regard many words have been said so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u172	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. To inform you that the Minister already has specific numbers that are requested in the questions asked and after we have finished the attitude of colleagues from the ABB, he will take the word again for two or three minutes from the procedure, I repeat, but in response to these specific questions, which have been asked by MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u173	Madam President, colleagues, Mr. Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive and reasoned answers that I personally received from them. The only thing I would recommend in connection with vaccinations and in general in the entire healthcare system: the Ministry of Health to be ready and to react in advance, ahead of all malicious, false and misleading rumors that are released in the media, in society and which indirectly endanger the health of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u174	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer specific questions, as it is specific information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u175	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. The petal vaccine is about 43 leva, the hexavalent vaccine of one manufacturer is 124 leva and the other one is 73 leva. In 2012, when the vaccination was completely carried out by the Ministry of Health, 180 thousand doses of about 8 million were made. lv. If I say "if" because it is not clear, in 2015 our children are vaccinated with a hexavalent vaccine, the Ministry of Health will spend approximately 11 million. lv. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-29.u176	Thank you, Minister. That's what we're running out of agenda for today. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
