ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose as a point. 2 today to discuss a draft decision to elect President of the Committee on Culture and Media. Such a proposal has been submitted, No 454-01-62, from 11 December 2014. The essence of the question is clear. This is the only Commission that so far has no legitimate leadership. I ask you to vote on the proposal to include the item on the agenda. Vote 158 MPs: 155, none, abstention 3. Let's move on to point one for today: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE LOAN AGREEMENT BETWEEN BULGARIA AND EYES BE A BANK OF ELE, THE SOSYES GENEAL, SITIBANK, EYES (CLON LONDON) AND THE UNIQUEDIT BULBANK. IN THE ROLE OF REGISTORS AND FULL-MANDERS, AND THE UNICHEDIT BANK. AG (CHON LONDON) IN THE ROLE OF AGENT, No 402-02-7, PUTTED BY THE MINISTRY COUNCIL OF 10 DECEMBER 2014 There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance and from the Committee on Foreign Policy, which will introduce us to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and EHEU BI BANK PI ELI, SOSITE GENERAL, SITIBANK, AE (Blon London) and UNICEDIT BULBANK At a meeting held on 10 December 2014, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy jointly examined the said Draft. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Vladislav Goranov The bill was presented by Mr. Goranov. The purpose of the signed contract is to provide the Republic of Bulgaria with a bridge loan of EUR 1 500 000 000, which is planned to be repaid with the proceeds of a planned issue of government securities (SCB) on the external markets in 2015 under a medium-term programme for issuing the SCC on the international capital markets. The contract is drawn up according to the standards of the credit market association (LMA) and regulates the obligations and relationships between the parties to the loan. According to the distribution of functions between banks, the bridge loan agent will be UNICREDIT BANK AG, (London branch). The loan was agreed for a period of six months, with the possibility of extending it by another six months at an interest rate set on the basis of EUR 6mIBOR plus an allowance. The taking of the debt shall be carried out on the basis of art. 68 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, the loan funds will be used to provide funding for the state budget, related to expectations for a higher deficit, the need to provide a loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks, as well as to secure liquidity support. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: Committee on Budgets and Finance:...... 11 Members of Parliament................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Foreign Policy Committee:.... 11 Members of the Parliament...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote the Law on the ratification of the loan agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and EJC BI BANK PI ELI, SOSITE GENERAL, SITIBANK, AE (Cloud London) and UNICEDIT BULBANK (AD) in the role of registrators and authorized leading organizers, and UNICEDIT BANK (London branch) as agent, No 402-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the importer, would anyone like to present the bill? No. Debates are open. Please ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in them to make an application accordingly. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov is opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u4	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor for a brief statement on the important subject that is of our attention. I hope it will cause at least as much attention as the next point. I say this because often in the Bulgarian society on issues that are widely available and easy to share opinions, lively discussions are heated, and sometimes the most important issues seem to show restraint or at least the need to pay attention. We are now facing a topic that affects the whole Bulgarian society and the development of the country over the next few years. The loan the government proposes to receive is worth 3 billion. lv. I will not discuss the financial conditions under which it works, as this is a job for the specialists and I expect my colleagues from the parliamentary group to pay attention to this issue as well. But the more important and the first question is why is this loan coming?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u5	This is what we have already answered with the adoption of the budget of the 2014 update, Mr. Stoilov. This is not the subject of discussion today. There is a law in force on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u6	Madam President, do not edit me, because in the very opinion of the committee, this issue is affected and cannot be completely removed from the reasons that dictate it. It is said that it will serve to provide funding for the state budget, the need to lend the Deposit Guarantee Fund to banks, as well as to secure liquidity support that costs at least one third of the total amount provided for in this additional loan. We have reason to express our negative attitude because this is also what we have done with the budget change in question when authorising the government to conduct these negotiations, and today we are in the final phase, as the constitutional procedure requires that Parliament rule on the ratification itself, which ends the country's debt process. As a result of this debt, every Bulgarian citizen who is already born will have to pay over BGN 3400 in the coming years. The cost of debt interest is more than the aggregate funds allocated for the following year for science, culture and sport combined. Let the awake cultural conscience wake up here as it sensitively and rightly responds to other questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u7	Why did you sleep for KTB?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u8	Let me also remind you that when the right puts the issue of budgetary discipline and deficit levels, it is even ready sometimes, at least in Bulgarian conditions, to cross the law, because the deficit voted, which you will probably confirm at second reading of the Budget Act, is 3%, while according to your adopted Public Finance Act, it cannot exceed 2%. I believe that we do not need to limit ourselves more than the European conditions require, but the fact is, anyway, the gap between the basic law that regulates public finances and the specific budget for next year. I would recommend that you propose, in the course of the second reading procedure, such a change that allows the deficit to reach 3% on an annual basis in terms of gross domestic product. Since in recent years there have been some persistent attitudes that say how the left was spending freely, how right-wing governments came to establish stability, to accumulate funds that the left-wing ones would then spend again, I should note that usually in the last two decades when there are governments with the participation of the BSP or with the support of the party, the debt of the country is falling and not increasing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u9	They're shutting down EU funds. They're shutting down the EU funds now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u10	I will quote you data because the biggest reduction in public debt Bulgaria has in 1995 1996. It is true that the significant reduction in this debt further aggravated the financial situation of the country, but this is the largest amount by which in a short period the government debt, which you know, in the management of the NDSV and partners began to grow significantly again. It was refinanced in 2013, when the then government received a loan somewhere around 1 billion. lv. That was highly discussed. It was said how much the next Bulgarian generations are burdened, and interestingly whether with these 3 billion and those over 5 billion, which are planned to be taken as government debt next year, how will they be relieved?! We are on the verge of a critical financial situation. I mean not just the balances that show us the financial estimates, but the combination between the state of the economy, the general economic trends and the financial indicators. Let's do another parallel that's important. Bulgaria's external debt in 1989, according to official data, is 9.2 billion. The dollar. The World Bank confirms precisely these indicators, which is less than half of gross domestic product. Then the state of Bulgaria, I think, is quite exaggerated, is defined as critical and that it is facing the inability to serve this debt. However, the debt is even smaller because the foreign exchange reserve needs to be deducted from it, as well as the claims from other countries, so the net debt is 5.3 billion. The dollar. In comparison, as of August 2014, the external debt here should already be talking about a combined external debt... state and private, because our economy is predominantly private, is 37.4 billion. EUR, which is already approaching 100% of gross domestic product. These data are eloquent enough. To them, when we start adding what is voted on today, you understand with what economy Bulgaria is facing this external debt no longer large government assets, no opportunities to participate in promising economic projects and with accumulated systemic problems in the financial sector and in the real economy. We should also note that this debt is taken at a time when the European Union is practically largely abandoning Bulgaria when it was cut off from Russia and therefore only the possibility remains for us, if we are able to do so, to seek a particular national union, as long as we can formulate what is necessary and if there are responsible politicians and parties to achieve it. This is a real necessity because with economic momentum, with the promises of accelerated economic growth, which were offered in the election of the government, and real new obligations and with the momentum of the current financial and economic policy, Bulgaria will continue to sink. It will lose even what it has achieved in the last year.. this economic growth around 1.5%, anyway, in the average of the European Union. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] You planned it to be reduced almost twice. Why do you object to the indicators you offer us and which determine the parameters of the development of the Bulgarian economy for next year? I want to finish with what I think is well enough to justify our motives not only not to support but to oppose the further debt of Bulgaria at least in these sizes, because some of the funds that are wanted can be justified, but the overall attitude, the assessment of what is being done now, at the end of the year, and what will follow in 2015, will bring Bulgaria to a critical financial and economic situation. Apart from her becoming one for a number of years now. This should be taken into consideration by Bulgarian citizens, because, in everyday life, we understand what happened, years later. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members of the National Assembly? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u12	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there are words that we cannot leave unanswered because a BSP colleague has just set as an example of good governance Jean Videnov and the period 1995 1996. I'm sorry. Education does not allow us to remain unclear. Each management of BSP in the last 20 years at least ends with an excessive deficit, but along with this ordinary and severe financial crisis. Let's start with Lukanov. At the end of his term of office Bulgaria is in total international isolation, suspended payments, total blockade, national disaster. At the end of Jean Videnov's term there are at least 14 bankrupt banks, severe depreciation of the Bulgarian currency. Bulgaria is facing a national disaster again. At the end of Stanishev's mandate, notice, Bulgaria for the first time after the year 2000 there is an oversize for the first time after 2000 in Stanishev's term! Each term of BSP ends with a result which, among other things, I will not list, is an excessive deficit. Every term of BSP! Now, to a colleague who spoke just now, whose name I will not mention, in order to avoid the excessive deficit, there will be no excessive personal explanations. [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] What does the excessive deficit lead to? How is he financed? Maybe lawyers have the excuse not to know, but for every economist it's clear with debt. The deficit for every year how it is financed by debt. In other words, the inheritance that left BSP is now financed by debt. There's no other way. That's how the financial system works. In other words, every government of BSP in the last 20 years, ending with an excessive deficit, has increased Bulgaria's external debt. We can say it this way: when it manages BSP, then it does not happen immediately, the debt, of course, increases because the deficits must be financed in some way, and the way is only one In this situation, colleagues, now to come out representatives of the BSP and explain to us that they had almost managed well the last 20 years and others were guilty of the current levels of debt is somehow obscene. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It's just obscene! Since it is indecent, it cannot remain irresponsible, because in Parliament, in the end, truths must be said and the right things to say, the right things to say. The other very important question. The important indicator is the gross government external debt........................ government external debt! There was a big bag here that collected private with state, and when it's profitable only when it's profitable private with state. The indicator observed by the European institutions, by the International Monetary Fund, is gross external debt. That's the indicator. In early 1989, the problem is that it is 50% of the gross product, except that the economy is planned, ruined, it is 50% of the gross product. Now it's about 26 " 27%," that is to say, the difference is significant. All of this is said as follows: the reduction of debt from here on as a strategy goes through only one thing As long as there are budget deficits, debt can only grow. Period! And there's nothing else we can do. That is, if we want to reduce the debt and in general the debt of Bulgaria, the trend of budget deficits should be crossed. If we look at the last 20 years, it's only happened one way. Only right-wing governments in the last 20 years have managed to have even surpluses and no budget deficit. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] That's the result. I reminded you the final result of Stanishev's mandate to be clear. So what we need to do next year, and this is the trend that is at stake, the heavy inheritance that Oresharski left the excessive deficits to be limited and overcome. I wish this Parliament and this government at the end of the term of office the deficit as a problem will be resolved, which will be a sign of stability and a sign of a new road for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u13	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u14	Madam President! Mr. Dimitrov, I'm going to do better and give you a line because your whole speech was a slightly longer line of my speech. We are certainly more intelligent to understand that when only I have spoken, your address has no one else to be addressed to. I'm not going to go back a lot, I'm just going to use the line to put additional questions to which you, if you want, will answer. We have left, without exaggerating this fact, the currency reserve over 8 billion. lv. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] We have left Bulgaria talking already, not one government or another, towards the beginning of the changes assets, which are calculated over 100 billion. The dollar. The largest privatisation that was carried out in the management of the SDS and the next government for this period, according to the Privatization Agency, occurred between 8 billion and 9 billion. BGN, with one third of them in compensatory instruments, i.e. unavailable. So let everyone make these comparisons and judge. [[Noise and lines.]] The government debt you only want to talk about is 24 billion. BGN, but we are mostly in a private economy and I do not know why you insist on talking only about government debt after the economy of Bulgaria is formed in the dominant part of the private sector. And finally, answer me now, by voting on this new debt, how much of it you will distribute to the various social groups and what measures you will offer them. You will vote to increase retirement age, to freeze social expenditure, so that again those who form gross domestic product will be damaged. So be good to tell all these people what you're offering them in exchange for your debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u15	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Dimitrov, you have saved some of the facts and truths of history from the governments of BSP, that is, major deficits, major structural economic problems were not solved with reforms and only with external debt, but also with printing of money and hyperinflations, which led to total impoverishment, a collapse in the well-being of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Noise and lines on the left. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u17	Mr. Yankov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, despite your dynamic speech, the timbre with which you have tried to subsist does not give you the ability to insinuate, because it is clear to all of us that the retrospect you have been doing for the past 25 years is selective. I support my colleague Yanaki Stoilov, he marked, but let's still be correct and when we talk about governments' governments for the past 25 years, let's not go back so far and look at the last seven-eight years. You, correctly, if you are aware, to share with us how the reserve left 2009 was used, because February 2013 it was at the critical minimum and this was recognised by ministers in Borisov, including debts. In fact, Bulgarian citizens in this particular period began to realize the mantra, which is repeated for financial stability, collapses. In fact, this responsibility for the stability of the state must be shared among all the political parties on which it depends. You are currently taking responsibility, greater than the political party GERB, for what will happen with the financial situation of the state. You're aware of that, aren't you, including that statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u19	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u20	If you were listening carefully, honourable colleagues, Mr. Stoilov in several sentences gave a clear recipe for the rapid bankruptcy of the state, as only BSP can do it. No one else can, in such short and synthesized form. He said: "Let's borrow and give it to social policy. The shortest model for quick bankruptcy is this one. [[BSP LB.]] Social policy can be spent on what is produced. It must produce and grow the economy and what is produced can be a social policy. The idea of BSP to borrow and make social policy has the following disastrous effect, namely: increasing debt, only problems and ultimately creating expectations to take new debts with which to again make social policy. [[Relations from BSP LB and DPS.]] It is this model that must be stopped. These loans are now being imposed because in 2014, Bulgaria experienced, unfortunately, an unpleasant accident and when you have experienced one, then you know who was driving it "Oresharski" with the support of, of course, the DPS, and when you have experienced a crash, you have to pay the bill. We're paying the bill right now. It's not our account, but it has to be paid. There's no one else to pay for it but this parliament and this government. As for Jean Videnov, who you recalled again, we had just forgotten him, honourable colleagues from BSP. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] We were a bit rusty, but you yourself stressed his successes. In this regard, let me tell you just one thing - the hyperinflation, which was thousands of percent in Videnov's mandate, which was again from BSP, led to a reduction in the well-being of Bulgarian citizens in times. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] If before him one person had 100 leva, after him in a real purchasing power he had hundreds of times less, hence the impoverishment of Bulgarian citizens from hyperinflation and printing of money. Here was a legitimate line of Korman Ismailov. Dear colleagues, we're paying someone else's bill. It is not pleasant when they make you pay someone else's bill, it is not pleasant, but at least those whose account we are paying today - BSP and Oresharski's office - at least to keep quiet, paying their account, at least to act more correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u21	Mrs. Stoyanova, you asked for a procedure. By the way, I guess. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u22	Thank you. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Madam President. I would ask you to really try to return the debate on the subject to the point we are looking at, namely the loan agreement. What we have been debating so far, we had it a few days ago, when we adopted the State Budget Act 2014. Not to mention that even the debate is not on this topic, but on the subject of development, the economic and financial, of our state over the last 25 years. I think it's not the time and it's not right for the items on the agenda to degenerate into disputes that have nothing to do with the essence of the point. I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and return the debate where it responds to the point we are debating, namely the Loan Treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. At first, I tried to react, and it didn't work out for me. I'll try again. Are there any other MPs willing to participate? Mr. Gechev. [[Noise and lines.]] It'll be almost impossible for me here. I hope you're on the subject, Mr. Gechev. Right?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! On the contrary, it will be very easy for you, as I will not enter into right-wing religious or any other statements that I suppose even our students who listen have sincerely enjoyed, as all those who study economic theory and practice very well know how deficits move and what governments. I mean, here's the thing. We have good news and bad news with this bill. Mr. Finance Minister should be delighted and we are delighted, on the one hand, that international financial markets are in a position where interest is record low The agreement made in the contract plus 1% means that a loan contract will eventually be concluded on favourable terms, for which we do not have any merit, but this is the time and perhaps under other conditions we should have taken advantage. The bad news, however, is really bad news, and they are that Bulgaria enters the debt spiral. Dear colleagues, I just want to tell you two or three sentences. If we look at the statistics next door, Greece has 63 billion in 2004. Euro debt. In 2008, colleagues, there was 505 billion. I'm going to repeat 63 billion in 2004, after four, 505 billion. This means that entering a debt spiral, these massive withdrawals from this year and next year, whatever the reasons, obviously, that we will interpret them differently, put us in a debt spiral. The other bad news is that in the motives of the Ministry of Finance and the government there is no explanation of how from 2017 the share of this government debt in gross domestic product will start to decline. I don't believe this beautiful dream and I'll tell you why. Because the third bad news, colleagues, is that of this debt not a penny goes to the Bulgarian economy for investment, for jobs, as some of our colleagues rightly said. This is the main problem of debt policy and the demands for increasing debt in Bulgaria. We wouldn't have any worries if any country, including Bulgaria, is borrowing, as business does, and through public-private partnership the majority of these loans go to stimulate Bulgarian production and Bulgarian exports. Not at all! So entering the debt spiral is obvious and it will have severe consequences for the Bulgarian economy. I won't fight with any other colleagues, nor will I mention names, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u25	However, you can increase the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u26	That's the last sentence. Similarly, a few days ago, a colleague explained to us how the bluff was ending the South Stream. Do you remember? Well, unfortunately, my colleague, it's not a bluff. The South Stream is buried by some people. I won't mention names; Belene is buried; is buried. Alexandroupolis is buried; is buried.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u27	We're here on the subject now, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u28	... which is now coming from the South Stream. At these funerals of large investment projects, this debt spiral starts to look extremely not worrying, but scary, which is why we will vote hard, pushing the dark red button. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u29	Are you with different consoles, Mr. Gechev? All I see is a red button on this console. [[Laughter and excitement.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] There's a line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u30	Madam President, if you could extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u31	I've already done it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u32	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gechev, you sounded quite scary from the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u33	Not scary, funny.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u34	My question is: is the state turning into a pyramid from the government that is coming with the first steps they take?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u35	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u36	Thank you, Madam President. As I understand it, the line is a means to argue with the speaker, not to compliment him. Perhaps in the Rules of Procedure we should introduce a hypothesis that the MPs of the same group should make them each other. I apologize for the detour. I'd like to say something. In the debates on the adoption and the update of Budget 2014 and Budget 2015, there is a lot of comment on the need and why it is necessary to actually conclude such a bridge loan contract and the need to achieve diversification of lending in this situation in order to achieve an optimal interest rate. That is the point, in the way in which this contractual agreement has been formulated, and I see nothing scary about it and nothing different from what we have already voted in the framework of these two votes on the state budget. I can't understand the BSP colleagues in this case why they jump, why they talk about hyperinflation and so on. I, by the way, when I hear hyperinflation, admit it, and without them talking, I immediately think of them. The same way I remember seeing Mr. Gechev, but that's another topic, I won't open it. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I see nothing disturbing in this vote and in this item on the agenda, and I think we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u37	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u38	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, since colleagues have submitted to each other to have more time to talk, and I have to tell them something, the only way to control the increase in external debt is for BSP not to manage in the coming years. [[Laughter at GERB.]] That's the economic logic of things. And I don't know what kind of eyes you come out with and talk about here, why do we draw debts? Of course we're going to draw on the condition that you were in charge. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u39	A hole, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, with just one sentence I will say that they are absolutely unfounded, contradict not only the facts, but also the common sense, the world history and the Bulgarian how budget deficits and debt are moving. When you look at the past 25 years, you will see that there is also hyperinflation with Finance Minister Ivan Kostov of the right, without any reforms and 0,01 privatisation with the government of Mr. Philip Dimitrov. So let's not go into that data. Children study them in economic technicians, universities and so on. I want to tell you this: I hope we don't get to a financial pyramid. I do not wish, because we are, first, Bulgarians and then we are from different political forces. But I'm telling you macroeconomically that we're going into a debt spiral because the government doesn't give us any arguments as to how we get out of this spiral in 2017. And the facts say that once we enter the debt spiral, the examples of Ireland, of Spain, and especially of Greece around us are quite indicative. And what I say can't be objected, it is known by every person, you don't need to be an economist until we start the Bulgarian economy, we don't stimulate the business and we don't expand the public-private partnership, we can't get out of the debt spiral. That should be clear. And without big investment projects that we've been talking about for a few days, without stimulating the business, I'm afraid that we might actually get into a debt spiral in a financial pyramid, which I don't really want to do, but it's a danger that we all have a duty here to work so that it doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will abstain from this bill for the following reasons. Firstly, I think the subject is serious enough to treat it so lightly and to extract arguments that have nothing to do with the dangers that such a trend poses. The problem, colleagues, is not in the debt itself, because Bulgaria is very far from the reference values of Maastricht in terms of debts of 60% compared to gross domestic product. From this point of view Bulgaria has nothing to worry about. That's not what I'm worried about. It is worrying that debt is becoming a habit and that this is the easiest way to solve the financial problems of a country. Let the budget be cleaned up a little bit, to see the reserves, and there are, and only then to decide on such a withdrawal of debts. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, our position in terms of borrowing is very clear and very relevant to each loan must lead to an increase in gross domestic product by a certain percentage and this is a guarantee of its effectiveness. Otherwise, any loan that is not directly aimed at increasing growth has the dangerous consequences that colleagues have shared. That's why we're holding back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u43	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u44	Madam President, honourable Members, whenever it comes to ratifying a debt agreement or any government debt document, I have always said that we should be very careful what signals we give, what analysis we make, what references and so on. Of course, these apps have hardly ever been followed by the Assembly, it is not obliged to do so, but I think we really need to be careful. I'm sorry the finance minister got out. I would like to make an appeal to him: that the government and its team develop some debt strategy for several reasons. What we see from the three-year programme is that the deficit, although there is an intention for financial consolidation, will be at least 1.5-2 billion. per year. This means that in the next three years we will be going to undertake new debts anyway. This one first. Secondly, to disagree with colleagues who are trying to politicize what this debt is needed for. To remind you that this debt is taken not because the Oresharski government has spent this money or caused something, but because a banker had decided that the money of the depositors was his personal property and decided to spend it just like that and to do with it whatever he wanted. There was probably no quality supervision either. But there is no fault in any of the political forces here in Parliament or outside them. So this debt is for this. To be made clear here, from this tribune. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Mr. Atanasov, if you have any line, you'll come and give it to me. Don't yell in there, or I'll tell you like what.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u45	Colleagues, if you're having a free dialogue like this, there's no place for us here at this table.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u46	Well, Madam President, I expected you to make an observation. I apologize. But he's yelling at me from there and distracting me. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u47	Well, you look the other way. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u48	I'm listening. Let's be serious. The debt is really due to the payment of these deposits and because of the deficit that is within the framework of what this National Assembly has adopted. With regard to the strategy, we are really obliged to say in one such strategy when exactly in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Parliament and any Bulgarian government will begin to draw up budgets in which there is no deficit, and, say, where there are surpluses. I just want to remind you that at 6% growth, Bulgaria managed to save about 2 billion a year? 1.5-2 billion. There are no requests in this budget, in the policy that such growth can be reached in order to start coming out of the deficits and to go back to the old levels of debt. This is the real debate, when it comes to debt, if we have a strategy, first; how we will manage debt in the coming years when there are deficits; how we will reduce the deficit and go out to growth to start repaying the debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u50	Madam President, Members of Parliament, I cannot understand why we are doing this to each other. We only heard all these arguments two days ago. I feel like we're either masochists or we're retarded. The exact same arguments we heard two days ago. There's a problem and it's called a exploding bank. Millions, billions of Bulgarian people disappeared there. At the same time, it was as if this problem had already been completely forgotten, we did not do what was most necessary, and experts said that we should hire a company that is doing financial research and tracking to see that the money of the Bulgarian people is currently in offshore areas and attractive islands in the Caribbean. Why didn't we do that? Right now, we're pouring from empty to empty. The truth is that this pit of KTB must be filled and the truth is that this debt, however unpleasant, must also vote on this loan. I'm just amazed. In this Parliament, the claims are that everyone is above the average intelligent level. Please, let's not do these theaters. These are theaters right now. I suggest we move on to a vote and ultimately fix an evil that, let's say, for this bubble that exploded, is responsible for all parties of at least three governments back. Let us not forget the power of KTB in which government has reached its peak power. At the same time, in which government... [[Radio.]] I guess everyone's level of intelligence is good enough and you know where KTB reached its greatest economic power, under which management. And at the same time, at what other station she blew up and exploded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u51	First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Tsonev, you're right that we're not all responsible for the situation that...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u53	But your line is to Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u54	Slavcho Atanasov was making a line of Mr. Tsonev's.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u55	You're right, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u56	Personally, I don't like having to vote on another loan today. But when you're talking about CCB and that banker, it's good to say that that banker said it was the DPS who was responsible for this incident. It is good to finally reveal the answer to the question: who? Because today we have to vote for a billion and a half euros in debt and I am sure that no one is pleased that instead of this money to go to the economy, to health care, to support the Bulgarian pensioners, we have to pay another insanity that you created the three coalition a few months ago. It is good to recognize these things because it is the truth and it is known by all Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u57	Third line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, there is talk of the KTB case as some case on the other side of the globe as if some bank had blown up in Japan or Moldova. As if this did not happen within the term of some government in Bulgaria, within the framework of some supervisory authorities that should have been watching to not blow up a bank. And it's like the hole that opened after this bank isn't in the order of four billion. This is a sum with which we could re-arm the army, not talk about NATO monitoring procedures. This is a sum with which we could solve all the problems of emergency care, a large part of the problems of pension reform that people outside protest. All this happened during a certain management. It happened, according to public data, with a very large participation of at least one member of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. This isn't a bank that blew up. This is a bank that was blown up. I am convinced that the committee will establish this thing and then perhaps we will talk again about this topic in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. It's a hole, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u60	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Back and forth. Mr. Stanimirov, it is clear who the banker, majority owner of the bank [[Reciprocation in RB and GERB]] who, among other things, is accused and, among other things, is hiding from justice. And a man like that throwing accusations at political forces?! To come here, to appear before the authorities, and to defend these people, to tell them where the money of the depositors is and then to make accusations against anyone. We're not worried about charges like that. You're right about Mr. Atanasov. And in the law that we introduced from the DPS, there is such a text to hire such a company. Thank God the National Assembly in another act adopted as a recommendation to the BNB, BNB has made the appropriate actions and will probably soon be concluded such a contract.................................................................................. we are for this........................................................................................................................................................... So we don't have any contradictions. The attempts of colleagues from the Patriotic Front to pass some guilt on to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are absolutely in vain and unstable in the case of the CCB, because many times in the media and with their behaviour in the previous Parliament, and with their behaviour in this Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms follows a very consistent policy. Everything about KTB should be made clear to the Bulgarian people. Everything about banking supervision needs to be made clear and this supervision needs to be improved. Anything you can do has to be done to get the money back. So make your accusations to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the deliberations? There aren't any. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the loan agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Eich EU BI BANK PI ELI, SOSITE GENERAL, CitibANK, EN AE (Cloud London) and UNICEDIT BULBANK (JSC) in the role of registrars and authorized leading organizers, and UNICEDIT BANK (London branch) in the role of agent, inc. No 402-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2014. Vote 169 MPs: 106, against 39, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Yordanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Since during the speeches we have not heard any concrete proposals... in general, it was an overview of Bulgaria's development over the past 25 years, I am making a procedural proposal for a second vote on the Draft on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u63	Back-up offer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u64	Madam President, honourable Members! We are not in a situation where there is full agreement in the plenary on the proposed draft. We will consider forming proposals between first and second readings, so we need to be given such an opportunity. Otherwise, the act to be taken by Parliament will be an attack due to a violation of the text of the Constitution, which says that the bills are adopted in two votes in separate plenary sessions. The exception is only in cases where there is agreement in the plenary and a declaration by the Members of the National Assembly that they will not make proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u65	I put to the vote Mrs. Yordanova's procedural proposal. Vote 166 MPs: 105 against 56, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We're listening to your second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u66	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the loan agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and EHEU BI BI BANK PI EL, SOSYET GENERAL, CITIBANK, EN AE (clone London) and UNICEDIT BULBANKS (AD) in the role of registrars and authorized leading organizers, and UNICEDIT BANK (Cloud London) in the role of agent Art. 1. It ratifies the loan agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and EHEU BI BI BANK PI ELI, SOSYET GENERAL, CITIBANK, EN AE (clone London) and UNICEDIT BULBANK (AD) in the role of registrars and authorized leading organizers, and UNIEDIT BANK (Cloud London) in the role of agent, signed on 8 December 2014. Art. 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u67	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Law on ratification of the Loan Treaty with its article. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 by importer. Vote 169 MPs: for 107, against 39, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. We move on to the second item of our legislative programme for today: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION OF THE COMMISSION'S CULTURE AND MEDIA PRESIDENT. With an I.V. letter. No 454-02-62 of 11 December 2014 the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Valeri Simeonov on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure submitted a draft decision on the election of the President of the Committee on Culture and Media. I present to you the draft decision on the election of the Chair of the Committee on Culture and Media: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova as Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media. Followed by an importer who was the chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Are there any MPs who wish to take up the proposed draft decision? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, from the Reformation Block, we will vote on conscience and the reason is not related to a specific candidate. The issue is principled, as we have tabled proposals for amendments to the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly at the beginning of the week. According to these proposals for changes, it is envisaged for committee chairmen to conduct a public procedure for nominations and hearing, i.e. this is the procedure that we signed in art. 89 and it applies to the positions elected by the National Assembly. We believe that it is also appropriate for our own committee chairmen to apply a similar procedure so that there is no double standard and thus meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens. Given that this proposal has not been dealt with in committees and has not yet taken place in this House, obviously this change has not been voted on, this is the reason why we are voting on our consciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u69	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! I fully support the proposal of my colleague Peter Slavov. Their political group has made proposals in this sense. However, I would like to clarify that it could not be applied at present both technically and factually and legally. This is a solution that would work in the future. Its application in the particular choice is also impossible because the reference to these rules requires the existence of a commission of such choice. So again, I would like to stress this is a path in the right direction, but in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u71	Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Slavov, I personally understood your statement very well, and since I have no doubt about your conscience, it was a form of support for our candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u73	Third line? I won't. Mr. Slavov. You won't use it. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision with the content of which I introduced you. They voted 122 MPs: 91, Against 19, abstention 12. The proposal has been adopted, and with this our legislative programme has been implemented for today. Dear colleagues, at 10.30 in the northern lobby will be opened an exhibition dedicated to the 200th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. At 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u74	The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 5 December to 11 December 2014 as follows: - from the National Representative Julian Angelov to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the application of an interstate agreement of 1961 between the Republic of Bulgaria and Tunisia and the situation of Bulgarian citizens working in Tunisia. The plenary sitting on 19 December 2014 should be answered; - from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, on the application of the bans and restrictions on smoking introduced by the Health Act. The plenary sitting on 19 December 2014 should be answered; - by National Representative Cornelia Ninova to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on the policy of the government for the conservation, control and restoration of the Bulgarian forest. The plenary sitting on 19 December 2014 should be answered; - from the National Representative Boris Yachev to Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the renewal of the activities of the projects providing opportunities for disabled people to provide affordable services in the home environment under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." The plenary sitting on 19 December 2014 should be answered. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MP Desislava Kostadinova. Until now, there have been requests for declarations from the parliamentary groups. According to the procedure of the parliament's leadership they are the first of the Reformation Block. Shishkov, then by the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Lutvi Mestan. Now the request is given by Mr. Volen Siderov from the group of Ataka and Mr. Vigenin from BSP left Bulgaria. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u75	Mrs. President, Mrs. Kuneva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Protecting the health of the nation is a joint activity and a higher form of policy, and policies are for living and healthy people. The diagnostic-treatment process is not an easy occupation and requires a normal environment, so at present the aggression aimed at medical teams is interfering with diagnostic-medical activity and its quality. Not only doctors, but we as politicians have the difficult task of restoring trust in Bulgarian medicine and in the Bulgarian medical community for quality health. How did we let ourselves get to the beatings of doctors, and instead of uniting ourselves around this problem, we started calling ourselves xenophobes, fascists and communists? Why do we hate those who care about our health, and why do we respect the uneducated? Being a doctor in Bulgaria is like fighting against the entire tribe, although you are a member and you can always be expelled. Professor Ivan Moskov rightly argued and taught that medicine is science, art and profession, I would add a calling from God. Doctors have always been part of the elite of every society, but apparently after the 9th September coup all efforts were aimed at turning the Bulgarian doctor into a cheap servant of the laborer and not so laborer. Medical science was forced to reorganize itself on a Soviet model and to be fully subordinate to the interests of totalitarian government. Let us recall that so far, documents and data have been collected for 618 doctors and medical students repressed at different times, grade, type and duration. In total, 71 doctors and students were detained in prisons and 86 in concentration camps. More than 45 doctors and students have been killed or missing, and others have not been identified with the cause of their death. To other victims, the death sentence was changed to life imprisonment, but they were placed under such severe conditions that inquisitions and disease occurred in the Zadani lived for a short time and were formally declared dead in prison or in the camp respectively. On the death certificate of the executed in 1969, Dr. Radan Sarafov did not even mark the cause of death. More than 300 students have been expelled from the Faculty of Medicine, including my father. Much greater is the number of dismissed and restricted in professional growth, including obtaining scientific degrees and titles or holding executive administrative posts. Prominent professors, professors, docs, assistants and others were declared national enemies. But let us also remember all 220 thousand people who have passed through the concentration camps in Belene, Sunny Beach, Skravena, Bogdanov Dol, 2000 Gorians, most shot without trial and sentence; 11 thousand people tried by the People's Court and so on. Is it xenophobia, or do some politicians say the number is small, and what the hell?! This, ladies and gentlemen, is communism in action. It's just the murder of thinking people. He hasn't been punished yet. Is it xenophobia compliance with the Constitution? Is it xenophobia when you want to put the law in place and apply it? But let's remind ourselves what xenophobia is. Xenophobia means constant, stressed hatred, fear or hostility towards other people's things, but also accepted as foreign cultural units. And what is the term when you exploit a part of society only for your own purposes, especially when there are elections? What do you call those who rely on the lower-educated part to achieve their political goals? What do they call those who buy voters? Ladies and gentlemen, a man who is ready to be bought is worthless. Do we understand gypsies as ethnics, or do we only understand them when we need them? Why don't they hit medics in the other countries of the European Union? Very simply, first, they will be punished and second, politicians in these countries do not expect political dividends from them. Is it xenophobia when you violate the Constitution? Apparently not. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is written: "All citizens are equal before the law. Apparently, according to the reading of some of us, some citizens are more equal, though less educated. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is written: "The study of the Bulgarian language is the right and obligation of the Bulgarian citizens. Then why doesn't one part of the population of the Republic speak the official language of the Bulgarian? Why is it promoted in another language and not to the official, which is a clear violation of our supreme law, the Constitution? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is written: The school training until the age of 16 is mandatory. Then I ask: why do the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria not know the Bulgarian language and do not comply with the laws? Well, how are you gonna buy an educated man? He thinks he doubts, so we'd better blame anyone who wants to have educated and replace the law of the uneducated. Is xenophobia the instillation of hatred towards a community? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is xenophobia when you smash and terrorize a community that cares about the most precious of human health. Doctors in all countries are national wealth, but not in Bulgaria. All over the world, the doctor is respected and valuable, but not in our country. We use it most often for political purposes because they are not allowed to protest and complain. They only have duties, but they don't have rights. Read the Health Act and you will be convinced that over 100 members of the Law are related to obligations on the part of the medical community and only 4 members of this law are the obligations of the patient, which I will quote: To take care of his own health; not to harm the health of others; to assist medical aid contractors in carrying out the activities related to improving and restoring his health; to observe the established order in the medical and healthcare establishments. The doctor is always guilty, but the patient who touches him is innocent. What kind of people and National Assembly are we when we don't defend our institutions like police, teachers, doctors, lawyers, government, the President?! We only place obligations on them, and we don't place obligations on citizens. I would very much like to see one of the so-called human rights riders sitting in an ambulance and cheering up with a team of ambulances. Then I'd like him to talk passionately about xenophobia. Was xenophobia the removal of the Bulgarian Turks and the change of their names? Obviously, it is not because very quickly some politicians have forgotten what their fellow believers have been through, and they have probably actively participated in these events of the BCP. And unlike the infiltrators of State Security in prisons, most politicians and their relatives on the right side of the hall were lying on the ground, precisely because they fought against xenophobia. Who is more easily manipulated by the thinking physician or the uneducated, purposely uneducated? Here I recall some articles from the Constitution. And how do doctors handle it? Very simply, they leave their homeland. I am a doctor and antixenophobic at heart, in understanding and upbringing, because I am anticommunist and anti-Nazi, and I am proud to pursue the noblest profession. So please don't insult me, don't insult the minister who wants justice. Don't insult the Reformation Block. Democracy is order, discipline and clear rules. When a politician has the courage to name the truth and try to establish order and rules, don't call him xenophobic and fascist. That's no way to run a country. Education, healthcare and national and internal security should be a national priority, not a political dividend. Finally, as a doctor, let me remind a term to some Members of the National Assembly to remind them what it is. It's an unstoppable overexcited talk, a lot of talk. [[Applause by MP Martin Dimitrov.]] In neurology and psychiatry is a symptom of speech pathology, a combination of speech speed and at the same time multi-story, empty talk or senseless flow of words. As a symptom is seen in sensory phases, manic conditions and schizophrenia. Please don't be such politicians! [[Private applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u76	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr Lutvi Mestan, the Chairman of the Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My statement on behalf of a parliamentary group is on another topic, but only one sentence to the European face of the Bulgarian government. No one in the DPS has any claim to Minister Moskov's efforts to ensure the safety of doctors in the performance of their duties. Our claims to Minister Moskov are not about that. But we continue to have a very strong claim, expressing a strong disagreement with terms such as "If someone has decided to live like a scot, he will be treated as a scot." It's about the thesis I'm quoting. And secondly, when a minister in European Bulgaria allows himself to call himself a whole ethnicity "population" it is xenophobia. I repeat, this is xenophobia! Population is a biological term. Population is also found in cows, population is also found in pigs. You can't call an entire ethnicity a population. This has nothing to do with the humanism of the medical profession! So much for xenophobia. And everything else, indeed, is a logoria, because we did not hear a specific word of consent or disagreement with the insolence of a minister to call an entire ethnic Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! For another year, the tobacco buying campaign is late. With the expression for another year, I am already identifying the systemic nature of the problems in the industry and I am making a clear request that my speech is not intended for any political exploitation of the protests that started today in Southwestern Bulgaria. The problems of the industry are systematic. I take the floor to appeal to all the parliamentary groups, first of all, of course, to the cabinet and the parties behind it, to make extra-party efforts and to solve the chronic problems of the industry. They concern tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. The fact that this year's campaign is late is particularly dangerous because the weather conditions are unfavorably high humidity, frequent precipitation. The process of natural fermentation of tobacco has already begun at home. Tobacco is moldy and may soon become unsellable, which I repeat, tens of thousands of families, over 100,000 Bulgarian citizens of hunger. You're in charge today. Today the protest will most likely be for the address of the country's government. Yesterday, however, we were in power. There were protests against our government as well. In just one day seven thousand people in January 2014 blocked the Bulgarian-Greek border. Our MPs went to the protest and did not welcome another example that the problem is not at all party and is definitely not subject to party exploitation. The fact that the campaign was late is one side of the issue. It is more worrying that the average buying-in prices are outrageously low. Maxulas for BGN 3,20 are purchased, others for BGN 3,60 to BGN 4,00, maximum of BGN 4,20. Let's assume that there is a buying-in price of 4 BGN. About a kilo. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the son of tobacco producers. You can believe me. The maximum amount of dry tobacco produced by a family is an absolute upper limit of 1 ton, 1000 kg. 4 leva each. 4,000. BGN, of which the statutoryly recognized costs are 60% and they are real. 2,400 leva. is the cost of production. There's £1,600 left. income for a family. Now I would like to remind you of the debates on the state social security budget. With these 1,600 BGN, even if only one family member is registered as a tobacco producer, he has to pay social and health insurance for BGN 1,700,80.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u78	He has to get credit to pay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u79	That is, we are facing a tragedy. The income of the family is not sufficient to cover the obligations to the DEO and NHIF. The family has no income to cover its obligations to the state against the grueling year-round work. He's got to take £103. borrowed to fulfill his duties. Those are facts. Please check the facts and then respond to the call, to the statement. What should be done? There is a need for extra-party efforts to solve the systemic problems of the industry. We need to analyze the application of the amendments to the law adopted by the Forty-first National Assembly by GERB in 2011. With these amendments the sector was completely liberalized. In no European country there is such a total liberalisation of the salesman's relations when it comes to raw materials such as tobacco. In the first year following the amendment of the law, the market situation was favorable. The purchase prices were about BGN 6.50. That is why during the crisis last winter, we observed a number of colleagues from today's leaders are not in the Chamber, so I will not mention their names. Otherwise, I would have deliberately mentioned their names to give them a chance in the form of a personal explanation to take a stand. These colleagues with a very inappropriate pathos, aplomb, said to the voters: When the DPS rules, the bought-in prices were BGN 5 when we were in power were BGN 7-7.50. And if we come to power again, atonement prices will rise. With that promise, you made your campaign. I ask: are you able to fulfill this commitment? Will you provide £7,50? A kilo of tobacco? How are you gonna do that? This is an example of how we should all have learned our lesson and stop partaking these heavy problems of the industry. Therefore, I propose a very responsible and very specific: firstly, immediately, the Minister of Agriculture and Food together with the Minister of Finance to hold a meeting, may also take the form of a meeting of the Tobacco Advisory Council with all traders, with the participation of the Association of Tobacco Producers, both of Oriental Tobacco, and of wholesale tobacco. A clear timetable must be agreed at this meeting to accelerate the tobacco buy-in campaign and to agree on a sufficient tolerated amount of average buying-in prices. This must be done. Secondly, we must definitely put on the agenda of the Fortyth and Third National Assembly radical amendments to the Tobacco and Tobacco Act to find a lasting solution to the sector's systemic problems. This can happen, including through [[the President signals that time has run out]] removal of the figure of the Association of Tobacco Producers as counterparty to traders. Because now the relationship is between the individual small producer and the huge corporation of a tobacco dealer. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, it is very important to give a strong sign that we have a strong awareness of the difficult situation in which producers will fall if we do not reconsider the amendment adopted at first reading in the Law on State Social Security, with which the minimum insurance income on which tobacco producers are provided increases from 240 to 420 BGN. This text needs to be dropped. Otherwise, we're going to starve, repeat, over 100,000. Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u80	With the agreement of Mr. Siderov we will first hear the statement of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, as it is on the same topic Mr. Mestan spoke on. Mr. Vigenin, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, tobacco producers across the country are protesting the weak buy-out campaign, low production prices and raising the insurance threshold. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is solidized with this protest, which aims to put the problems of over 200 thousand. Bulgarian citizens. In its previous term GERB declared war on tobacco producers, which continues today with new funds. In areas where there is no other livelihood, the current majority of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front and the ABB, introduced new rules that condemn thousands of people to misery. You refused a total income tax for people with the lowest income to be reimbursed, raised the minimum insurance income from 250 to 420 BGN. Only these two measures lead to that from 1 January each tobacco producer will have 100 BGN. less per month, and for one family, that means between BGN 200 and BGN 400. less available income per month. This comes as an addition to the anarchy that you created in your previous term and which you call You have created rules in the sector, which have put in the weakest, defenseless position producers... those who need the support of the state and on which the whole tobacco sector is based. A sector which, contrary to political propaganda, is a promising sector, brings only excise and VAT around 1 billion. lv. in the national budget, funds by which hospitals, schools, kindergartens can be financed; funds by which other agricultural sectors can also be supported. And that against 100 "120 million support per year," which was provided for 2014, but for next year there is still no clarity whether there will be national payments for tobacco production and what they will be. We call on the ruling majority to exercise responsibility and not to look down on people's problems; to provide national payments in the amount that has been guaranteed by our government for this year; to start urgent work on the Tobacco and Tobacco Act. We are ready to support the legislative proposals that were tabled in the summer of this year, but were not adopted by the previous National Assembly because of GERB's unwillingness to engage with them. Now is the time, given the request for a different approach to power, to seek broad agreement in parliament on them. We demand that producers be protected by establishing mechanisms for controlling buying-in companies, putting legal limits to the beginning and end of buying-in campaigns -- by the way, only 25% of Oriental tobacco has been bought out at the moment, which creates a serious problem. To ensure that the State takes on its role in assessing the quality of production. Dear colleagues, let the people understand that they are not alone, that there is a state, that it is in this House that representatives of the people have gathered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We will now hear from Mr. Volen Siderov on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the speech of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka is dedicated to national dignity, to the dignity of the political elite, to the institutions in Bulgaria and, first of all, to the institution of the National Assembly. It is about masochism, which we have been observing for maybe 20 years in Bulgaria. Masochism, I mean, you know what masochism is. There were doctors here, and they just defined it. It's to love being beaten, most often, the shortest, unprofessionally. For 20 years, ambassadors of foreign countries have shown absolutely unacceptable conduct for diplomacy in our country and are not receiving any reaction. These days, the Ambassador of France, someone named Caban, has taken the liberty of saying that a Bulgarian judge has wrongly convicted. I suggest that you think for a few seconds what would happen if a Bulgarian ambassador to Paris said that some French judge had wrongfully ruled in his case. Exactly how many days will he be given to leave the country as a persona non grata and whether or not he will be indicted and charged with something? I know the French people hold their authority. But we don't have a reaction. Not only is there not, on the contrary, this man is given a tribune all the time, his statements, absolutely unacceptable to diplomacy, are greeted without reservation, uncritically by both the media and the political class to call it. There is no reaction from the National Assembly. As leader of the Ataka Party, I proposed, in an open letter to the media, that the foreign minister make a note at the French Embassy about this man's unacceptable behaviour. It's not a first appearance. We remember how the same ambassador has rudely intervened in Bulgaria's internal affairs several times, including during elections he has indicated which party to vote for, which party not. I remember very well this statement on one of the televisions before the European elections. This person constantly comes out and says who is good and who is bad in Bulgaria and he is not alone. His colleagues, representatives of England, Germany, the United States and other countries, are also interfering in the Bulgarian internal affairs and, unfortunately, are not receiving a reaction. I do not know what this lack of reflex is due to, but I also advise the Presidency of the National Assembly, and the representatives of all parliamentary groups to unite around a declaration that makes it clear that we, the MPs, do not allow foreign officials to interfere in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria in such a rude, unacceptable way. It would be the only way to protect our dignity. Everything else means admitting that we are some colonial territory where any foreign clerk can say what he wants, point out what he wants, lobby for who he wants and leave it unpunished. The French ambassador in question must be declared persona non grata and expelled from Bulgaria. This is what respectable countries do. If that's who we are, we have to do it. I also told your Minister of Foreign Affairs the other day that he should do this. What he does depends on the ruling quadruple coalition. Obviously, this coalition is ready to swallow any insult to Bulgaria, I do not know for the sake of what in the name of power most probably, because in the name of something else I do not see. These events have been going on for a long time. I said I've probably been watching them for 20 years and not only watching them, but commenting on them. I don't know how many of you remember the odystic personality William Montgomery, American ambassador to Sofia in the early 1990s, who just said we should change the Constitution no more, no less. Why? Well, because she was banning ethnic parties, and he had come here with a job to make a handyman's party. He didn't hide it, he said it clearly and openly. He had the charm and the appearance of a Field Sergeant. That's how she behaved, that's what she talked about, and she said ultimatively, that we should change the Constitution. Thank God, it did not come to this in the vassal behavior of the then Bulgarian political class, but this ambassador was followed by other American ambassadors who in the same rude, arrogant way indicated who was good, who was bad and what should be done. There was an ambassador, Mrs. Bowlan, who was just saying that Bulgarian pensioners shouldn't complain because they own homes. They have to sell them. What are these big homes they have, and they're complaining that they don't have the money to pay for the electricity and the heat? Sell their homes! They were real estate owners, and that means they were rich people. This bully with Bulgarian pensioners also remained passed by Bulgarian politicians. No one even made a note to the lady and she so went away with the complacency that she came here to give instructions to the Bulgarian society. I could mention a few more names. There was this James Pardew guy. He said what to write the Bulgarian media and what not to write. When there were protests called "Protests," the illegal occupation of Sofia University, the same Pardew was admitted there through the cordons, otherwise no one could enter, he was admitted to go to give instructions on how exactly to conduct the illegal occupation of the university. The English ambassador also likes to speak and interfere. It is also very open, like a monastery gate, and always speaks and says what should be done and what is good. He advised, for example, that when there were paid protests, I say it with complete conviction, because in my TV show I showed young people who admitted that they were paid by organizers associated with one of the ruling parties now in the coalition I will not say who they are, you know, to carry out what was called the protests of the peaceful, intelligent and beautiful, wonderful young people. In fact, outcasts, stoned and stoned young men who threw stones and wounded would have killed some of my colleagues. These people, paid, were advised by the English, French and German ambassadors. They openly went out in the media, said how to hold the protests, went to them and consulted them, including when, again, Sofia University was occupied a second time, absolutely illegal from 10 to 15 people with anticonstitutional demands for changing the state structure. This also passed and went very well and there was no reaction from the main political forces, except from the "Attack" of course. When I point out in my order that in solemn sessions, here, when the ambassadors of the Western European countries of the European Union line up and I point to them and tell them that they stood indifferent and watched the whole robbing of Bulgaria, they continue to see that they have no idea of the life in our country, that they have no idea how the ordinary Bulgarian lives, I become a target. There's been a flood of insults and attacks against me over the past few months that I've somehow offended them with their excellences. I didn't use insulting words, and I never insulted them. I just told them in their eyes that they do not know what life is like in Bulgaria and, if they love, not to give advice on how we live, but to make their leaders and their government guides better put Bulgaria, not only to go out on the helpful media and to give further instructions as some governor general of colonized territories. This behavior, ladies and gentlemen, has always irritated me. I don't know why there's no reaction from the other political forces.! Perhaps they like to be instructed by foreign officials. Probably something in the Bulgarian gene may have broken over the decades and centuries. I do not know. This is already a complex topic of pedophysiology. But when you have become a politician and express the vision and trust of thousands of people in Bulgaria, you should react for them. We are representatives of our constituents here. Our constituents resent it. They have asked me many times: "Okay, Mr. Siderov, how is it possible to come out American or French, or someone's ambassador and tell us how to live, given that this man lives in some other sky, gets, for example, 10-15 thousand. euros a month? He has no idea of our lives at all. He has no idea of our judicial system, nor of our health system, nor of how the Bulgarian really lives, but he comes out and teaches us in an insulting, humiliating way. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Has humiliation become a permanent state for Bulgarian politics? I don't know! But any case, if we do not react now to the last arrogant act of the French ambassador, we do not react with a request that he be extradited from the country, to be declared persona non grata, we will show as politicians that we agree to be humiliated. Such a country simply cannot have a good future, such a country can be anything but sovereign. Ladies and gentlemen, as a summary, I urge you to draw up a joint declaration by Parliament that says that such manifestations are unacceptable, condemn them and we will not tolerate them in the future. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u84	We're moving on to Parliamentary Control. The Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Mrs Meglena Kuneva will be the first to respond. Question to her by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Dimitar Lazarov and Plamen Nunev regarding the implementation of a Plan adopted by Decision No 45 of 6 November 2013 of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Lazarov, you have an opportunity to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u85	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, Bulgaria as a member of the European Union is also an external border for this Union, measures were taken back years to join Bulgaria in the Schengen area. The estimates of technical readiness and technical implementation of these measures are positive, positive, but in view of the events and processes in the Middle East and North Africa last year the migration pressure in the country has increased, which caused problems in Bulgaria. They were also the subject of discussion in the National Assembly, were also the subject of a broad public discussion, with a view to the demand for national, financial, legislative, for dealing with these problems. I would like to point out here that this pressure was not only on Bulgaria, but also on other Member States of the European Union that have an external border. By Decision of the Council of Ministers No 45 of 6 November 2013 a plan was adopted to tackle this crisis situation as a result of the increased pressure. I ask you to answer how these measures are being implemented so far, adopted by the Council of Ministers' decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u86	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lazarov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue of the implementation of the crisis management plans, as a result of the increased migration pressure, includes two aspects. One is the one about which you mentioned the crisis situation that was caused by the large number of foreigners entering the territory of the country to seek protection, and, on the other, no less important, and no safer area for us in terms of politics, is the issue of integrating the beneficiaries of alien protection, those with refugee status. Since this is a very important guiding debate for me that we should have on refugee policy, I will try to address both of them briefly. First things first. Two plans have been made: one of them is to tackle the crisis situation that occurred due to the increased migratory pressure that you mentioned. It was adopted by a Protocol Decision of the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2013, between September 2013 and March 2014, and the currently in force Plan for further measures to increase the readiness to respond to expected increased migratory pressure, adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 April 2014, for the period April 2014 in which we are currently present. I provide your attention with data on their implementation. According to Plan 1 which I mentioned, money of 22 million has been allocated. Five hundred thousand. BGN, 33 measures are laid down with 129 activities, 95 of which are implemented within the deadline. Four are continuing their implementation and are set in the current plan, eight of which are missing. The main initiatives implemented are: the construction of an obstruction facility of 30 km long, the so-called "city" at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Secondly, conducting a police operation by the Ministry of Interior for enhanced security at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. 1564 employees were posted and were later reduced to 1460. The capacity of acceptance of foreigners has been extended. Fourth, living conditions are provided in detention and accommodation places, as well as health insurance for residents. Fifth, guarantee hospital and outpatient care. Sixth, outpatient care and hospital care are guaranteed. Building of the Trilateral Centre for Cooperation with Greece and Turkey in Haskovo has not been implemented. We have had talks with the governor and so far the situation is this: there is no finished construction. There are eight of the activities that need to be dropped. The current plan for additional measures confers 35 million. BGN, 11 initiatives are set, 65 activities are implemented, 36 of them are completed, the rest are in process, two are with a negative need. Specifically, the main initiatives implemented are the impeding facility, the intensive security, border control, the capacity in a special home for accommodation. 54,000. BGN, one-way tickets are provided and so on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Health and social security. Financial resources are provided for the activities of support for foreigners, a draft plan has been drawn up to implement additional measures for 2015. It is to be agreed with the Ministry of Finance. However, this is not the case with the implementation of the state integration policy. It seems to me that we have a lot of work to do here and I am very worried about this myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Lazarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I will formally take advantage of the right to reply, as the topic is extensive enough. Taking advantage of this right, I would ask you to actually complete your answer to the second part of the integration policy about its state? If there is still time to add to the financial and organisational measures in Bulgaria, what measures are still being taken by the Bulgarian state in relation to our neighbouring countries to prevent this pressure, as well as with Member States of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u90	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u91	The state policy for integrating the refugees who have received protection in Bulgaria. Let me share with you what is to come and what has not been practically addressed so far. We have a National Strategy for Integration of beneficiaries of international protection. It is also connected, of course, with the way we cooperate with other countries in the European Union. It is for the period 2014-2020, however, no action plan has been adopted for integration for 2014, i.e. measures remain on paper somehow, there is no plan for their implementation. The functions of the National Council on Migration and Integration established by the strategy have not been defined. I spoke with Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin this morning, and we have drawn steps that we will present on this matter shortly before the government. Before starting this Council, the National Council on Migration and Integration was closed at the beginning of 2014 the National Council on Migration Policy, which was led by the Minister of Interior, established in 2011. As a result, the Council of Ministers did not approve an implementation report on the 2013 action plan under the previous strategy and we are in a very uncharted territory. I believe that these are literally errors that have been made in the management of the entire process. Given the lack of this action plan under the last National Integration Strategy of July, this year, it is obvious that it will be very difficult to make a report on what has been done in the implementation of any of the strategies in 2014, and we cannot move forward unless we know where we have reached what has been implemented and what has not. To deal with this obvious chaos that the government finds, we will propose to amend and improve the cabinet's approach now with the reconstruction of the National Migration Policy Council. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Currently, the focus of the State Agency for Refugees is completely shifted from the issues of integration to ensuring acceptance of foreigners seeking protection, their service, the full and lawful conduct of procedures for assessing the grounds and granting protection. I believe that, given the completeness of the measures and activities to be carried out by the State and the increased number of asylum seekers, the efforts of several ministries should be combined. I will therefore propose that the National Migration Policy Council be co-chaired by two deputy prime ministers. That is precisely what I have spoken to Mr Kalfin about, and otherwise the expected readmission agreement with Turkey actually solves a small part of the problems. Only for 2017 is there intended to be fullness of the application of all types of refugees coming from Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to the next question to you, and he is from the MP Desislav Chukolov on express support for the Transatlantic Agreement. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov. [[National Representative Dimitar Lazarov spoke with Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u93	Mrs. Kuneva, do I have your attention? Thank you. Mrs. Kuneva, ladies and gentlemen! I am going to ask a question that concerns the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (COMMERCIAL) - a treaty that the European Union is about to conclude with the United States of America. A treaty that is very little spoken of in the Bulgarian and European public space. What exactly is this contract? This contract makes the supranational corporations equal at the level of the state. A transnational corporation can sue which a state chooses in so-called international tribunals. This means that a corporation, if it does not like the legislation in Bulgaria, can feel damage from this and sue our country. I'll give you a few examples to make it clear. Corporations are suing countries for damages. The examples are: Egypt, imagine, decided to raise the country's minimum wage in the country, a corporation is suing it for this; imposed a moratorium on shale gas, a corporation is suing Canada because there was such a moratorium; Salvador, imagine, decided to ban the extraction of gold because it is an environmentally dangerous corporation suing the state of Salvador; freezing the price of electricity and water, such a social measure as Argentina has introduced. Our opinion of the "Attack" is clear that we are strongly opposed to the conclusion of such an agreement. I very much hope that the Bulgarian society will understand what danger we are facing and will stand on our side. My question to you, Mrs. Kuneva, is: Why do you, as Deputy Prime Minister, go to this conference, organized, naturally, by the American Chamber of Commerce, and say that Bulgaria needs this treaty? I think the exact quote is: "Bulgaria needs this contract." Did you get a mandate from anyone? Did someone authorize you to do this? Please answer me this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. I answered these questions and the blitz control. I hope that now with the additions and explanations I will give to you, the honourable Members, you will have fullness of this information. First of all, I am glad that you are following this agreement, but you have not set a single European example. You talked about Salvador, about Argentina, about Canada, but you didn't set an example for any European country. I think this isn't an accident, and I'll tell you why. Absolutely, as soon as he took office, the President of the European Commission said that in no way "this is part of his programme, publicly promised to all European citizens and governments, will not allow, one of the things that will not be admitted is precisely the opportunity to choose a court outside the European. So rest assured that it has entered the highest European level as a public commitment. Since you have asked me the question, it seems to me that it is important to be aware of what powers I have, and I will tell you so far what the country has done, I think it will be useful for everyone. The Bulgarian position in connection with the negotiations on the trade agreement, called CTI, is prepared and proposed by the Ministry of Economy. The positions shall be drawn up in relation to the participation of Bulgaria in the meetings of the Council of the European Union on Foreign Affairs, the format of - for an informal meeting of the Council on 17 and 18 April 2013 in Dublin at a meeting of the Council on European Affairs, I now chair this Council; - at the meeting on 14 June in Luxembourg, again at a meeting of the Council on European Affairs on 10 June 2013; - at a meeting on 18 October 2013; - at a meeting on 28 February 2014 in Athens; - at a meeting on 8 May 2014 in Brussels; - informal meeting on October 15th, again in Athens; - on 21 November 2014 in Brussels, examined at a meeting of the CEV, I have already presided over it; - on 17 November 2014 and approved by a decision under that decision. 14 of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 19 November 2014. The written reports of the Ministry of Economy on the discussions and results of the Council meeting were reviewed and approved by the Council on European Affairs of the Council of Ministers. What's in our position? The Bulgarian side sees the negotiations as an excellent opportunity to build an integrated transatlantic market based on the convergence of regulatory approaches. This is one pillar of this agreement. Eliminate remaining duties and barriers to trade [[the President signals that time has run out]] , promoting trade and investment, competitiveness and sustainable economic growth, creating new jobs. Topics that are absolutely important to us are related to small and medium-sized enterprises. According to forecasts made at EU level, exports to the US are expected to rise by 28% and the total exports of the European Union to third countries by 6-8%. It is expected to have a similar effect of this agreement on Bulgarian exports, both in view of the traditionally positive balance with the US and because of the higher share of exports to the US in the country's total exports in the period prior to the accession of the European Union
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u96	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you're running out of time for more than a minute. I would like to draw your attention to the deadlines provided for your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u97	Sorry, I wanted to give you more information.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u98	Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kuneva, yes, there is no condemned European country simply because this agreement has not been concluded yet. I hope it never happens. As for Juncker's position, you know about the scandal that is currently raging in Europe. The other day, his spokesperson had fainted when they asked him a question about Juncker's past, and how he, as prime minister of Luxembourg, worked for years in the interests of these international supranational companies. Juncker's position is clear! You said how you presided over certain meetings, structures dealing with this problem. If, in the same way, you approach the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" to close the blocks of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" if in the same way you defend the Bulgarian state interest in this situation, "God forbid!" The trend is also visible that not only you, I have done my hard work and I took out the President Plevneliev at the opening of a conference, organised naturally again by the American Chamber of Commerce, expressed support; Deputy Prime Minister Bobeva, the former government of Oresharski, also at such a conference, expressed support; Daniel Mitov's statement after a meeting with the US Ambassador again expressed support; this year in November
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u100	Please, Mr. Chukolov, no such qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u101	Okay, I respect your request. He was naive enough to think that visas might fall for the United States of America if we supported that. Mrs. Kuneva, my request to you is when you read this contract, because I highly doubt that you have read it, then give position. And again: who gave you a mandate? When during the election campaign you were running around villages, cities, standing in front of the garage TV shows, did you say that when you become a representative of the National Assembly, I refer to you and then Deputy Prime Minister, you will support this treaty and its conclusion, and this position? I highly doubt you've done that. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My advice to you is: Do what you have promised your constituents, not what your masters command you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u102	Here you are for the doppelganger, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u103	Mr. Chukolov, I very kindly want to tell you that I have always opened the campaigns from Bulgaria and will continue to do so. So the idea of what I promise the voters has a very direct link to them. I have promised them growth of the economy and jobs something that, with what I have told you, I can prove it will happen. By who has read what, I am absolutely ready with you to compare our knowledge, including under the Trade Agreement and who has read it. I can do it, of course, in public. Who gave me the mandate? The Bulgarian citizen gave it to me with the fact that I am a directly elected politician. By the way, you, Mr. Chukolov, as a representative of the National Assembly, are true that you were opposed to the formation of the government, but the choice of ministers comes from here, from this Chamber. So the answer to the question of who gave the mandate, I think, is clear with the foundations of parliamentary democracy. I assure you that at no time have I been out, as you yourself have noted, from politics, and I would say from the continuity of policy in terms of the Trade Agreement with the United States. And when you have listed so many previous and present ministers who think in the same way that I have now presented it to you, and only you do not think that way, perhaps somehow you can calculate that you are in a minority and accept the fact that most people think differently from you. Of course, I assure you that in the same way that the negotiations are being conducted, I will finally present the results to you and you will have the opportunity to ratify the Treaty relating to the Trade Agreement, God forbid it will, of course, progress, as you have ratified it for Kozloduy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next question, I would like to remind you that, according to our Rules of Procedure, parliamentary control time will be extended over time for declarations that have been read from the stands. Now we move on to our next question. He is from the MP Mr. Georgi Bojinov on the opportunities and possible benefits for the Bulgarian small and medium-sized business from the Transatlantic Agreement on Trade and Investment between the European Union and the United States of America. Mr. Bojinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! My question is a short and specific question: what are the possible opportunities and the expected benefits for the small and medium-sized business in Bulgaria in the agreement? This was also the topic of the conference in question, at which you, Mrs. Kuneva, stated the following: The main principle for Bulgaria in the negotiations is the achievement of relief for small and medium-sized businesses. In this regard, in Bulgaria, I stress that an up-to-date analysis should be carried out and a strategy should be proposed so that the sector is not unprepared for competition and the requirements of the new markets. After so many conferences, participations and mandates, it is strange that Bulgaria does not have an analysis and a strategy to pursue and achieve the interests of the backbone of the Bulgarian economy. What are they doing on the other side at the same time? For the period 2012-2013 alone, the total number of so-called stakeholders who have lobbied in connection with the Agreement amounts to 298 lobbying corporations. Only a few have lobbied in the public interest. Everything else has protected the conscious and consciously persecuted corporate interests. I would like to add that about three thousand of the most expensive people in the world, the so-called corporate lawyers, have worked for the interests of corporations. It is therefore no coincidence that the forecasts for the effect of the Agreement are becoming increasingly darker. I graduated, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u106	Mr. Bojinov, you've invested in exactly two minutes, and I thank you for that. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u107	That's because you already warned me you wouldn't give me a second more.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u108	Mr. Bojinov, I have to tell you that I share your concern about small and medium-sized enterprises and the need for a very deep analysis. The Ministry of Economy has taken up this job and I hope that we will soon have the effect of his efforts. On the issue of lobbying in the European Union, this is more the work of private companies than something I can discuss with you. Lobism is the choice of one or another multinational company. If Bulgaria needs to lobby for its biggest economic entities, I am sure that they themselves are aware of the opportunities they have in this direction. In the European Parliament there is an open procedure for lobbying by recording the people who do it, that is, there is no obstacle to Bulgaria if it decides to do the same. Some of the more important concrete measures in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises that have already been taken. Let's talk about what the European Union and the United States has done or in the process of considering: firstly, creating portals and specialized websites aimed at small and medium-sized businesses; linking small and medium-sized enterprises on both sides of the Atlantic into a common network; creating electronic databases; promoting benefits for these enterprises; implementing business partnerships with the mediation of the European network of enterprises; participating in public-private partnerships; legal advice; very important thing that you have practically addressed; providing access to finance; supporting technology transfer; supporting innovation and development of research activities; stimulating clustering and cross-border cooperation; supporting participation in the exhibitions; linking the portal for unique brands with that of the European Union and the United States into a common portal for intellectual property; promoting e-commerce. These are measures, twelve in number, which will be pursued through the Agreement. Otherwise, at this moment, small and medium-sized enterprises of the European Union hold about 18% of the EU's exports to third countries. The share of Bulgarian export-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises is extremely low. Only 1.8 per cent of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises export goods and services to countries outside the European Union and 3.8 import from countries outside the European Union. I hope that changes. This is one of the driving motives of the Trade Agreement. The internationalization of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises, their involvement in transatlantic trade and the diversification of their exports are priorities for Bulgaria. This is the first Free Trade Agreement, which will have a separate special chapter dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore particularly welcome your interest in this area.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u109	Thank you. Mr. Bojinov, would you like to take advantage of the right to reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u110	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, none and all of them combined, small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria do not have resources and the opportunity to provide the necessary lobbyist support and presence at this level at which the discussion is held. Only the Bulgarian state with its position, realized interest and realised strategy can be on their side. I want to tell you that the forecasts are really bleak. Authorial institutes predict the loss of 600 000 jobs in the European Union. This cannot be without affecting Bulgaria as well. The forecast is a loss of salary for labor and for France the forecast is 5500 thousand. EUR per person employed in production who will lose from his salary because of the fact that competition will be exported in the direction of the strong. It's a crucial job. And besides that there will be benefits for those who can achieve them, there is no doubt in my mind that the Agreement is, among other things, an instrument for subjugating national states to corporate interests and blocking state policies in the interests of these corporate interests. I will tell you just one quote from the book of the Director of the Publishing House, the Yumani-Dimanche, who is also a MEP, and wrote the book Dracula against the peoples and for the first time published the supersecret document for the mandate for negotiations of the European Union. He writes: The society and the European peoples have no chance of succeeding if they do not choose incorruptible and subjugated to the big money of corporations politicians and statesmen. It is in the hands of politicians and statesmen to stand up for the interests of the peoples, the backbone of their economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u111	Thank you. Would you like to take advantage of the right to the backrest? No. The last question envisaged in today's parliamentary control to Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva is from the MP Christian Vigenin. The question is about an investment plan of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Six years ago, the European Union entered into an unprecedented financial and economic crisis, and today it faces slow economic growth, the risk of permanent deflation, the accumulation of high government debt and unacceptable high levels of unemployment, especially among young people. The Bulgarian Socialist Party and the Party of European Socialists, as our partners, since the beginning of the crisis, have criticised the implementation of austerity measures and have challenged the austerity approach. Instead, BSP and our partners have called for the promotion of public and private investment by implementing concrete ambitious investment plans in Europe. Thanks to our constant political pressure today, we are seeing a change in policy orientation and understanding that only through the development and implementation of a powerful investment strategy will the European Union have the opportunity to promote economic growth and create new and quality jobs. One of the key commitments of the new European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker was the presentation of a European investment plan to stimulate growth and employment in the European Union. By the way, this was a key condition on the part of the European Socialist Party for its support for the President of the European Commission. As Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies, you have direct responsibilities in preparing and presenting the Bulgarian positions on the nature, instruments and objectives of this Plan. My question was submitted before the plan itself was announced, but I think it still retains its relevance. First, is there an official Bulgarian position under the Investment Plan of the European Commission? If so, how is it formed and what are the main points of it? Do the views presented by the President of the European Commission meet the expectations and needs of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian business? Secondly, how will Bulgaria's preparation be coordinated to make the most of the opportunities provided by the European Commission's Plan? How will the objectives of European policy be reflected in the programme and policy of the Bulgarian government over the next four years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. For your answer please, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Under this procedure, your response time is up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u114	Thank you. Perhaps I should start with the ECOFIN Council on December 9th, which mined where Bulgaria was represented by the Minister of Finance and some of the debates were exactly on the so-called Plan Juncker. It really enjoys support from both right and left in the European Parliament. It will also be the main topic for discussion of the European Council on 18 and 19 December. Within the European Union, understanding of the need for more efforts to support investments is shared in order to stimulate economic growth and employment in the European Union. The position of the Bulgarian participation in these discussions was prepared by the Ministry of Finance. They are the coordinating ministry and approved by the Council of European Affairs and the Council of Ministers. In October, the ECOFIN Council adopted a decision establishing a working group involving the Member States, the European Commission and the European Investment Bank to identify potential investment projects of European importance and a high degree of maturity. They will be dealt with on a case. On the Bulgarian side, a representative of the Ministry of Finance is involved. The working group has identified a significant amount of potential investments, a total of EUR 1.3 trillion, over the next three years, which can provide added value for the European Union. They are mainly for infrastructure investments and can be launched in the period 2015 - 2017. The list, I stress, is not comprehensive and does not involve any of the Member States. Undoubtedly, stimulating and attracting investment in the economy is key to increasing its growth not only in Bulgaria, but also in the European Union as a whole. What are the priorities set? At this stage, coordination, as I told you, is carried out by the Ministry of Finance, which, in addition to participating in the working groups at European Union level, gives an expert assessment in the selection of projects to be offered for support. At its operational meeting, the Council of Ministers, the first Council of Ministers, in fact, approved in November this year a list of projects to be presented for funding the European Fund for Strategic Investments. They're not once and for all. At this stage, the European Commission wants to know what type of projects the countries consider the most important. This list is not exhaustive and may be amended. We have expressed support for an initiative to start work on the European Investment Programme and its implementation in line with the principles of subsidiarity, convergence and achieving European objectives. Here are the projects in our opinion: "Climate", "Climate", "Physical infrastructure " road, railway and information, "Science infrastructure". Support for the results of the work of the special working group we have expressed, led by the European Investment Bank and the European Commission, aimed at presenting an overview of investment trends and needs in the public and private sectors. Since this plan is more of a financial instrument, we are about to recalibrate all our thinking in terms of the absorption of these funds, how to mobilize the possibilities, first of all, to bring them together and then to master them. It is essential to ensure a level playing field between Member States, taking into account the objective of cohesion and providing for opportunities for priority obtaining funds from less developed regions. This stems from the fact that under other equal conditions investments in poorer areas have the potential to generate higher added value. That is, as an example was given, it is better to finance a village in the Pyrenees than Paris to build a project under this programme. It is extremely important that the new initiative is complementary to the Structural Funds and does not lead to a shift in investment. It should be borne in mind that underdeveloped countries such as ours have very little experience in the field of public-private partnerships - this is a topic that you should follow through your control, financing with alternative financial instruments and risk funds. Bulgaria does not have much experience in attracting private investment in large projects. Our projects are more risky than our more developed countries because of our peripheral location. Access to the Single Market is difficult for us, so additional tools are needed to align them with projects from more developed countries. With regard to the effect of applying the initiative to public finances, we have invited the European Commission to provide more information on the assessment of the risks of materialising guarantees. As for Bulgaria's preparation for participation, much depends on our own efforts to improve the investment environment in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u115	Thank you. Mr. Vigenin, you have an opportunity for two supplementary questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, dear colleagues! Significant clarity has been made about the government's measures, positions and decisions that have been taken. Since you mentioned the subject, I must say that for us there are several important elements which should be monitored by the government, as far as the legislative basis on which the implementation of this Plan will begin will be developed from now on. With regard to the criterion, you mentioned cohesion and convergence, it is very important for us to have criteria on this Plan to ensure that imbalances do not increase, as long as perhaps the interest in investments in the more developed economies will be higher. In other words, we need to find a way to stimulate investment in countries like Bulgaria. Secondly, there is one element that runs as a discussion in the European institutions, but I think it is important here too. As far as this Strategic Investments Fund can practically say that there is no fresh money, some of the member states have shown interest in putting additional funds into this Fund. The discussion is ongoing that these funds should not be taken into account as a deficit, i.e. this is also what I think is a very important, albeit small step, but which can make this plan unrealistic. Finally, something that is very true for us, too, to a large extent, we cannot only talk about infrastructure, as the main projects that the Bulgarian government has presented are in this direction. There are also others, but they are energy, infrastructure and very little has on the other elements. For example, high technology. They're more risky. It makes sense that the attention should be focused on them. You have basically said what is to come from now on, but first I would like to ask: will you engage Parliament more seriously with this policy? These projects I found on the European Commission's website. We didn't see how they were selected or why.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u117	I'm asking you to focus on closing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u118	Secondly, how will the Bulgarian business be engaged? How will this program be effective and the Bulgarian companies can benefit from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u119	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you are, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u120	Mr. Vigenin should have reacted to the Bulgarian government within a day. This was the first meeting and it was the day when Bulgaria was due to present these projects. I think it was the 14th. That was the deadline. I'd like a more serious discussion. I hope we will have it from now on, so I stressed that this is not a list that is not subject to change. On the contrary, in our position we are insisting all the time, and it is expressed at the General Affairs Board, we are insisting that this list of projects will be opened to correct all the time, which will select a special group in the European Commission. A lot of things we have to admit are still under construction on the Juncker plan. Indeed, I would say again, we have limited experience in providing this public-private partnership. It is not only in the direction of infrastructure, which usually comes to us first as an opportunity to implement a project with European funds. Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin insisted and this entered into our proposals, the possibility that guarantees for businesses created by young people, because of youth unemployment, would be covered by this Fund. It seems to me that this is a measure that will probably find its support, as well as the construction of infrastructure sites, however, with private partnerships. That is what the Bulgarian government is thinking right now. There are specific issues related to the selection of projects, system management, which will be presented with a legislative proposal and on the basis of it discussions will be held. That's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u121	Thank you. For your treatment please, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, dear colleagues! I think it's become an important and interesting discussion. Again, I recommend that these issues be discussed more widely with the Bulgarian MPs. Let me say that the President of the European Commission went and announced this plan precisely in the European Parliament, understanding the importance of parliaments in realising this plan. Here only Mrs. Kristalina Georgieva tried to do something. He plans a meeting with Bulgarian MPs and then cancels it, but I call on the Bulgarian government to work more actively with the relevant committees in the National Assembly. I would say that it is very important that this plan can be implemented effectively, in line with national policy. Here I would like to say that from my point of view, what is being done at the moment is about to be adopted and the budget, but it is generally going in the opposite direction. First, we take huge loans that are not investment loans, but to spend. Secondly, the public investment programme has been terminated, which has shown that it is producing results. And I think that if it had been further developed with the commitment of the Bulgarian Development Bank, we could have made a national investment plan that would lead to further effects from what will be done at European level. And I think there's a special field to work here. You said that the details are yet to be specified, but think in this direction too, because without such national efforts, throwing simply projects to fill, so let's say that for several billion we have submitted projects, it does us no good. We need to identify our needs well and see what really goes through the operational programmes so that it doesn't turn out that we're actually submitting projects that we can't finance under the operational programmes. That's not the point. And let us, together with Parliament, develop such a strategy. Otherwise, the coordination was pretty much settled. I admit that it is a little difficult for me to navigate these questions to whom to address, but I believe that step by step we will identify which one of you is responsible for exactly what and ask adequate questions to adequate ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u123	Thank you. With this, the questions to Mrs. Kuneva were exhausted. Thank you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are answers to questions asked to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. He will answer two questions. The first of them is the MP Dragomir Stoynev, on arbitration proceedings by EVN AG Austria against the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on 21 June 2013, EVN filed a case at the International Centre for the Resolution of International Disputes in Washington against the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR for damage to the company for the period from 2005 until now. Here, honourable Members, are included absolutely all parliaments since 2005, all governments who have had the honour to lead the country. In this case we are really quite worried about the opposition as Mrs. Svetla Todorova, who is currently Chairman of the State Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory, in 2004 actually led the group of experts who had talks with the potential investor EVN and are promised real parameters which unfortunately cannot be met in any way. My question to you is: is there evidence in the case, lists of questions and answers from a meeting between representatives of EVN and the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission from 16 April 2004 to 22 April 2004 and was the current Chairman of the SEWRC Ms. Svetla Todorova involved in these meetings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u125	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, this is not the first time we have spoken, I would say, and not the first time we have argued. You know well that I've never been afraid to call things by their real names, no matter who gets uncomfortable or uncomfortable with it. The case is a little different here for a simple reason. The issues concerning the substance of the dispute at the moment are very delicate, with delicacy derived from the fact that any action and omission, as well as any statement by a public authority can be and will probably be used in the dispute against the state interest. Yes, we are talking about the evidence in Arbitration case ARB/13/17, registered by EVN, Republic of Austria, against the Republic of Bulgaria in front of the International Centre for Resolution of Institutional Disputes in Washington, USA. You were correct, the amount of the claim is almost 600 million. Euros. If you have reason to be concerned, I think that any of the colleagues in this room, as well as in any state institution, can not remain indifferent and also not be worried. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the arbitration cases and decisions of the arbitration tribunals on international arbitration are confidential, and confidentiality and disclosure of information are governed by complex rules and precedents, including as regards the evidence provided in the case. It should be borne in mind that disclosure of confidential information, in violation of the established rules, can lead to major legal complications in arbitration proceedings and serious adverse consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria in resolving the arbitration case. I made an effort to investigate the matter. I have certain information. My request is, if you want to know more, to satisfy the information to be provided in writing. Let us not give reasons for the transcripts of the National Assembly meetings to be used in one way or another, and the greatest risk is to use them to harm Bulgaria. Thank you in advance for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u127	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Stoinev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I understand you very well, because a few months ago, as Minister, I refused to give information about the arbitration about Belene. But, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, this is about shorthands that are public, which are uploaded on the website of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I will not dwell precisely on the specific figures because they can be detrimental to the country, but very please................................................................................................. because we are talking about certain rates of return to the technological costs of the cost of technology costs that do not correspond to normal European and world practice. The problem is, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that this is the woman currently running the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and in what way can we trust that the country's interest is really being defended? Personally, I'm concerned in my capacity as the MP. I do not say this as an opposition, I say this in my capacity as a Member of the National Assembly, because I have doubts that it is working for the good of the country, because when some things are promised with such ease, it is quite normal for someone to want to be fulfilled. They cannot be fulfilled because this is contrary to any European and global practice. I will listen to what you have said, and I will not go any further, but I pay attention to you to keep a closer eye on this particular arbitration case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u129	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? You will not take advantage of your right to the backrest, for which I thank you. Let's move on to our next question. He is again from the MP Dragomir Stoinev to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev on actions related to the results of the audits carried out by the SEWRC of the electricity distribution companies CEZ, EVN and Energo-Pro. To develop your question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Donchev! In May, reports on the audits carried out earlier this year by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of CEZ, EVN and Energo-Pro were made public. More than 2600 violations have been found in connection with which my questions to you are: are they made up, how many and what acts to identify the administrative infringements found in the reports? Have they been issued, how many and what penal decrees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u131	Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u133	We can do it by roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u134	Yeah, unfortunately, it's a roll call. In relation to the findings of administrative infringements, reflected in the audit reports on the activities of the three electricity distribution companies, Commission officials have drawn up or at least this is the information that was provided to me, 1805 the act establishing administrative infringements. Of these, the distribution of CEZ Bulgaria.The distribution of CEZ is 981 pieces; the energy distribution of Bulgaria is 374 pieces; and of the Energy-Pro Networks is 450 pieces. The types of violations are different, and in the short time I have, I will try to summarize them. There are several general categories of cases, undoubtedly the most mass is the case in which the user is not present when creating a constitutional protocol, or refuses to sign a constitutional protocol. The same shall be signed by two witnesses who are not employees of the company. For CEZ we have 714 acts in this category; Esc.. 260 acts; Energo-Pro. 67 acts. The other, so to say, in a typical category of cases is when the energy distribution company is obliged to give written responses to complaints within 30 days and this is not done. CEZ has 11 acts for this reason, Energo-Pro 20. The Regulation on general conditions concerns the cases of expiry of the period for carrying out a follow-up examination of the measuring instruments. CEZ has 176 acts in this category; Energo-Pro has 18 acts; and Energo-Pro has 204 acts. Of course, we also have a number of specific cases, and I won't be able to list them all. There have been a lack of complete files of electricity-connected objects, so for example, the CEZ has 46 acts. I'm not going to read all the information. It's okay to get the written reference I'm using right now. Finally, I would like to inform you that 226 penal decrees were issued at the beginning of December, knowing that the administrative criminal proceedings procedure initiated by the relevant acts establishing administrative infringements must be followed. The information I have is that 200 projects of criminal decrees are currently being processed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u135	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Donchev, you are absolutely right and this coincides with what Mrs. Todorova said yesterday in the committee, which oversees the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I mean the parliamentary committee But what's the problem, Mr. Donchev? That Mrs. Todorova didn't sign any criminal decrees. All these acts stand at her desk and she refuses to sign them. Yesterday, he even tried to mislead the parliamentary committee by saying: "You see, there are 226 penal decrees. The chairman of this parliamentary committee is also here. When Mr. Valeri Simeonov asked her, "How much, to what value are these penal decrees?" Finally, cornered, she admitted that she de facto did not sign the penal decrees to the electricity distribution companies. Mr. Donchev, many of these acts have a limitation period. Mrs. Todorova admitted that a large part of these acts expires this week. If they don't serve by today, it's over. Now I have really doubt that someone is protecting the electricity distribution companies. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm not saying that we somehow made them. We want them to respect Bulgarian institutions and Bulgarian citizens and to work as they work in their own countries. But at the same time, when there are violations found, and refusing to sign them... She said herself: "Abe, they will hardly change anything in the work of the electricity distribution companies. Here we, all MPs, regardless of which political forces we are, were extremely surprised. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. This can't go on like this. That's why my two questions were put together. First of all, I refuse to stop anymore. But given the information I am now giving you, and what happened yesterday in the Monitoring Committee of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we do have enormous doubts that corporate interests are almost protected...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u137	You're running out of time, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u138	...in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u139	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here's your coat, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u140	Dear Mr. Stoinev, as soon as I learned what debates were taking place yesterday in the Energy Commission, I tried to learn more about the case. I'm not pretending to know the whole truth right now because, for example, two hours ago I spoke to Mrs. Todorova, who convinced me rather of the opposite of what you say. I don't get to judge who's right and who's wrong. These are things that are checked in any case, something that, as a subject, will be difficult to close. Besides, it shouldn't be closed within today's debate. On her part, she had the assurance that she followed strictly the provisions of the law in the issuing of the criminal decrees in question. Whether it is or not, I can't commit to téza right now. Two other shades that don't matter. I just want to mark them. Apparently there's an argument in the regulator, which is not bad. When there are professionals, when a solution is cleared, it is good to have an argument. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the dispute is not quite expert, but rather there are political nuances, which is no longer good. And one more thing. You have also happened before we argued on the subject, including related to the ERPs, including years ago on the issue of a word which should not be pronounced in a country like Bulgaria related to nationalisation. I don't think we have much reason to argue here. In addition, however, there should be no dispute, at least in this House, whether the state should properly fulfil its rights by introducing order, introducing discipline, especially in the part regulating such a market as electricity, in terms of the rights of Bulgarian citizens. There shouldn't be an argument here. In conclusion, as we commented yesterday on the Commission's meeting, I am pleased to note that the Commission has adopted the amendments to the Energy Act at first reading. Let us get to this state where the regulator will be elected and subject directly to parliamentary control. I hope for a great deal of consensus, no doubt about the independence of the regulator. Dependence can have different dimensions. Maybe it's political. Maybe it's economic. The hunted state is this. I hope this happens as soon as possible, but it's up to you, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u141	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. With this the participation of Mr. Tomislav Donchev in today's parliamentary control is exhausted. We move on to responses from the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin. In the planned programme, he will answer two questions. The first of these is the MP Maya Manolova on the measures of the government to support mothers in 2015. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kalfin, for the first time Bulgarian government... [[Deputy Prime Minister Ivailo Kalfin and Tomislav Donchev are talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u143	Please, Mrs. Manolova, wait. [[Applause to the Deputy Prime Ministers]] . Please focus on the question asked. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u144	You're eating my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u145	I'll consider it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u146	For the first time, the Bulgarian government has a deputy prime minister with a portfolio of demographic policy. For the first time, a Bulgarian government in its programming declaration states openly that Bulgaria is facing a demographic disaster and that a major priority in the government's work should be to counter this demographic disaster. So far so good, I'd say excellent. There is also a deputy prime minister who is also responsible for social policy and has a portfolio as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. It is therefore not surprising, dear Mr. Kalfin, that both the retired and the employed and, in particular, the mothers have set their eyes on you. They have huge expectations of what will happen next year if they have work and income, will the state stimulate the birth of children and their upbringing. With such questions, mothers from Kyustendil approached me and asked me to ask you this question. Because the picture seen in the budget supported by the majority is startling. In addition to freezing the economy and income, nine social payments are also frozen which are directly directed at mothers. The maternity allowance freezes at 340 BGN, children freeze at 35 BGN. And 50 leva. for a second child, freeze single-use during pregnancy, freeze single-use during birth, freeze single-use for a disabled child, freeze single-use for first-graders, freeze the additive for a disabled child. It's freezing for twins. It freezes the one-time help for student moms. And as a cover, an increase in the period over which maternity of working mothers is calculated is proposed. The question of the mothers of Kyustendil, which I am asking you from the parliamentary tribune, is this how you will counteract, dear Mr. Kalfin, the demographic disaster? Is this how you're going to support mothers and raising children?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I thank you for this question, including for its emotional setting with the townation of the word "freeze." However, I would like to tell you that not that many were thawed in 2014 mothers' incomes and they can hardly boast of any heavy social payments they received this year. On the other hand, everyone in the country has to pay for a huge deficit that was accumulated during the year. So social policy is a function of the economy and you know it well. Another thing. We saw a budget that was completely unrealistic last year. Then it comes out much harder for all Bulgarian citizens to cover these payments. So what happens in social policy is the result of what happens in the Bulgarian economy. There's no other way to do this. There's something else I want to tell you. I'm glad you appreciate the commitment to demographic policy. By the way, it is also in the program of BSP and in the programs of the other political forces in Bulgaria. It's a really important problem. But does social policy alone solve the demographic issue? You know very well, and I suppose you will support me, that demography means living conditions, means quality of life, means income. They're created in the economy. It means a job perspective. It's created in the economy. It means the level of health. It means dignified retirement insurance and so on. So demographic policy should actually be included in all other policies. I am saying this very seriously as a policy that must go on for many years. Specifically, your question. In 2015, you already mentioned several types of payments. There are nine types of payments that children's parents get. In itself, it is a question of whether mothers should be helped in this way. You mentioned them. The next year of the budget will be allocated money for family aid amounting to 568 million. 683 thousand. lv. This is a little over half a billion leva, which is over 12 million more than in 2014, which means that the funds are increasing first, on this feather. Secondly, there is an additional 16.6 million under the Child Protection Act. Moreover, next year, the new European Programme is coming into force, which has a number of measures relating to social integration and especially to people with lower incomes, and the possibility of either getting a job or being supported by this system. Today, there is a Monitoring Committee for this programme, the first to determine the specific measures that will be spent on next year. In addition, within the framework of the Social Inclusion Project financed by the World Bank [[the President signals that time has run out]] , work and next year there will be additional results in another 66 municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u149	Please, you're running out of time by about 30 seconds. Be brief with closure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u150	Mr. Chairman, what I'm saying matters to a lot of people. I'll keep the seconds you give me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u151	That's why I'm giving you more than a minute to delay time. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u152	Thank you. On the World Bank Social Inclusion Project, we expect more than 1500 new places for children to open up next year, for families who have severe social problems in institutions, kindergartens and so on. All these funds, both national and European, will be increased next year. The question is really whether only with social policy we could solve the issue of birth rates in Bulgaria and the question of Bulgarian mothers. And another thing that many mothers not only from Kyustendil repeat that motherhood requires perspective in life and not social benefits. We should indeed, together with the efforts of the entire parliament, try to do our best for this thing. Otherwise, we will closely monitor the demographic statistics in Kyustendil for the birth rate in 2015 and compare it to 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u153	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in the first part of your response you spoke to me as a finance minister or as an economic minister, but in this plane your arguments are more than inconclusive. I agree with you that quality of life, including solving the problems of the demographic crisis, is much dependent on the development of the economy, on incomes and on prospects for young families. But also in this direction, the proposed budget, which will outline the government's policy next year, is more than gloomy. The economy freezes with 0.8% economic growth we cannot talk about economic development; employment freezes; income freezes. On the pure plane of the economy, young families are not expecting anything encouraging. The tax policy that imposes this government with your participation as Deputy Prime Minister also hits young families, hits young mothers and those who work and receive high incomes, and those who are at minimum remuneration. Those who work highly qualified labor and have decided to become mothers, by extending the period of calculation of maternity will surely be damaged. It doesn't make any sense that the term should be increased by 6 months to 24 months. Those who receive a minimum income by removing the non-taxable minimum of those young mothers who are on minimum wage will be harmed by your government by BGN 444. next year due to the growth of the minimum wage. In this direction, the crumbs you throw at them with the changes in taxation for the birth of one, two or three children will in no way compensate for what [[the President signals that time has run out]] You take them. On the contrary, in practice you give 20 leva. For a child, you give it to people who get 2,000. lv. income for which these are crumbs. To those who receive a minimum wage instead of these 20 levs, you take 444 levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u155	Mrs. Manolova, my kindness is not limitless. Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u156	In other words, you take away the crust of bread from the hungry, and to those who do not need it, you give a whole warm coat of bread. [[GERB lines.]] Low-income young families will really be hit hard by your policy, taking into account both the freezing of maternity and children's and all the other social payments they need. After the CNS, after the tobacco producers in front of parliament, the mothers will come.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u157	Mrs. Manolova, I'll take your word for it, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u158	You must have an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u159	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I meet mothers not only in front of parliament, but in many places and I know very well what the problems in families are. Those things you just said, you know they're speculation! At least because the minimum wage is increased next year and you can't say that people are taken away from income after the minimum wage is increased. The tax discounts for people who have children are improving. There is no way to say that they are getting worse. For next year, more funds are allocated from the state budget to care for people with lower incomes, for next year there will be much more money related to European programmes, which are also aimed at people with lower incomes. So for next year, especially for people who have children, there will be more expenditure than this year's budget. One more thing to remind you of, because you said I was speaking as a finance minister, which I am not. You, as a member of parliament, should know the deficit is over 3 billion this year. lv. for planned, incurred costs, without taking into account our options. How much do you think the deficit should be next year? And is this a sustainable system? Or the sustainable system is to give someone 15 leva, which happened, for a second child, and to say: "We will then make everyone pay for it through the state deficit. Obviously, this is a frivolous policy. We are talking about lasting policies and once again I say: they must be related to the overall policy on young families and on birth rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u161	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Another question from the MP Iskren Veselinov about the problems of people with disabilities related to maintenance, repair, time limits of use of medical devices, gadgets and facilities (MESS). Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am doing this question at the beginning of the term because I think it is very important to mark at least the direction of policy towards people with disabilities who have certain problems and who are often invisible to society. The reason for my questioning is a specific meeting with a representative of the National Network for People with Disabilities, Mr. Deyan Gospodinov. These things are repeatedly the attention of the Ministry during the last term. My question has seven points. The first is about increasing the number of competent service facilities for wheelchairs and hearing aids, as well as aids containing the most electronics and needing the most intensive support. Building at least one service base in every district city. Would your administration assist for such a policy? Secondly, to remove excess links along the chain between the main supplier and the final customer. Third, in order to reduce the period of use of the aids described in the legal base " because the period of use for example for 10 years for a wheelchair is huge and it does not in practice have such a life. Fourth, active state intervention in the market of medical devices, gadgets and facilities, as is the full name of these products. Because of the status of the participants in it it cannot and should not be 100% of the market, the amount of limits and the way they form in terms of the purchase of such funds, maintenance, repair and consumables for them must be categorically reviewed as well. These limit prices must meet market prices, as disabled people usually cannot boast of good income. At the same time, it should be well assessed which items and consumables should be subject to limitation payments and which ones should be paid on an invoice from the Social Assistance Agency (SPA) as there is practice. The fifth position of my questioning is market liberalisation so that spare parts and supplies can be purchased for these funds on the free market, and not just from certain intermediaries, which would greatly ease maintenance. In sixth place, as regards the payment of money for the purchase, maintenance and repair of MMU by the ASSP, the legal framework to return to its form before the issuance of Decree No 125 of the Council of Ministers of 10 May 2011, considering the following: to maintain the right to choose the disabled person in respect of which company to purchase the relevant MMU; the disabled person has the right to receive the relevant device as soon as he informs the ASPA of which company he chooses and gives the company the order from the Agency that he has been approved for such assistance. In seventh place, the individual approach to the discharge of such funds and their technical and functional characteristics to comply with the needs and needs of the disabled person. The individual approach is particularly necessary for individuals in childhood, youthable age. I think that should be taken into account. As a Member of the National Assembly, I declare my intention to ask questions further and to follow the subject related to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I'm glad you're asking me these questions. They are quite detailed and I make a commitment and further.. written or oral, at a meeting, as you prefer, to provide you with more information about them. In general, the system under which funds are currently being allocated to support people who are buying aids, medical devices, gadgets and facilities is such that it gives them the greatest freedom. Something that, as I understand it, they themselves wanted years ago. This is what we're talking about. Every single person who gets that kind of help chooses who gets it from. What the state is doing is making a register of the suppliers of such items and setting the limit to which the state could assist the relevant citizen who needs such a facility. From then on, it shall be left to it or to it the choice of which firm to purchase the relevant facility. I'll start backwards with the questions. What you're proposing changes the current order. The current order is: once the facility is negotiated, purchased, a reception-transitional protocol is presented that the person concerned has received it and then the relevant assistance is received. This was not the case in the previous arrangement. The people with disabilities themselves then found that a lot of money ran out right between companies, the payment of these companies and so on. So now every person goes, chooses their company, knows what limit they can get additional support, signs a contract, gets the means and then with protocol goes and automatically receives the payment from the Agency for Social Assistance. The specific ideas you are proposing could actually do additional things. Regarding what you are asking about the competent service and the possibility of having a service in each city. This is part of the choice of any person who chooses who to be the supplier of the facility concerned. Companies under the legislation of Bulgaria are obliged to maintain a service base and provide services for people who have disabilities. I realize that sometimes the service can be in another place, but maybe this is the way people choose a company that can provide them with better service. I can't imagine how the state can regulate service activities. I think the people who need it could be looking for companies that can provide good support for these facilities. By the way, also on a question you ask, there is no problem with such companies that are suppliers of service and spare parts only, also register and carry out this activity. It does not necessarily have to be the company that is the supplier of the facility concerned. With regard to the reduction of the period of use of wheelchairs and other equipment. I'm inclined to accept this offer of yours. There is a committee that works, supervises, determines and monitors what is happening with regard to the use of these facilities. I will address her with this idea of yours, and I promise we will continue the conversation you are leaving for the future. With regard to the provision of more positions for aids, fittings and facilities and medical devices. This is related to additional commitments by the National Health Insurance Fund. I would like to conclude with an opinion that I think has its reasons. In fact, the provision of support and facilities should be under the control of the National Health Insurance Fund. They are this institution that can monitor people in what state they are, what need they have, what they receive as facilities. Moreover, the Cashier has other commitments related to their assistance. For the moment, the order is with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and we respect it. I would like to point out to you that there may be a better way, which is also more convenient for people to regulate this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here are two additional supplementary supplementary questions, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u166	First of all, I would like to stress that the increase in the service base, especially for wheelchairs, is extremely necessary, as there are practically two such service facilities in the country. In fact, on the basis of regulatory, of course, regulatory regulation, could it be possible for suppliers of such funds to build, however, the necessary number of bases close to users. It is clear that, for example, a wheelchair, which, say, from Silistra must go to Pleven for repairs, condemns this person who uses it, at least for a month not using the cart. That's a problem. Of course, I say this with a clear mind that we are talking about marking some directions that will perhaps be monitored during the term of office rather than receiving any concrete solution at the moment. Perhaps I should further ask the question in which the liberalisation of the market was concerned. Allow maintenance not to be linked to consumables and to suppliers authorised.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Please register with your card next time. You have entered into the terms of the Rules of Procedure. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With just a few sentences, I'll answer to Mr. Veselinov. I agree to work on this topic in the future, including paying attention to people when choosing a supplier. This supplier has a commitment to them including with a convenient service for disabled people. Again I say: this is a right to their choice, but it is good to be informed choice and to keep in mind that this is also an important condition when choosing a supplier. With regard to the service base and the possibility of other companies, sole traders and craftsmen providing such support, such an opportunity is available and I am ready with you specifically to wear it in the legal form that is necessary to make it even clearer. And at the moment, there is a possibility for such workshops to be registered in the register and to take over the maintenance of these facilities. We can make it even clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u169	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Veselinov, you have the right to be treated within two minutes of the procedure under art. 97 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u170	I'll be even shorter, Mr. Chairman. Really, this question is very remarkable. I hope it leads to a lasting debate on the problems of people with disabilities, because I think we all owe this part of society. I am pleased to find in Mr. Deputy Prime Minister the necessary desire to respond to these problems by declaring my intention to deal with them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u171	Thank you. With this, the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kalfin are exhausted. Thank you for your participation, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We continue with answers to questions from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first question is from the National Representative Stefan Kenov on the construction of enclosures in the forest areas, the capture of game and its shit in the enclosed areas. Here you are, Mr. Kenov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 31 October 2014 hunters organized a protest in the village of Hvoyna, Chepelare Municipality, against the construction of fences in the forest areas, the use of traps for catching wild animals and their release into these fences. In the country, many fences have been built in the forest areas, where wild animals are released after trapping them, then shots are fired, fences hinder the free movement of animals. A number of texts from the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act have been violated with the implementation of these acts. There is a violation of all moral rules and hunting ethics. The release of caught game in an enclosed area and its slaughter has nothing to do with the hunt. Dear Minister, the game conservation control is carried out by you through the Forest Executive Agency. What were the actions taken by the Forest Executive Agency after the protest of 31 October 2014? Have checks been carried out? Have acts been made to establish administrative infringements? Have penal decrees been issued and what penalties have been imposed? How many fences are built over 100 hectares on the territory of the country, on the basis of art. 8, para. 3 of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game and for all there is coordination by the Minister of Environment and Water?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u173	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kenov, after the protest in the village of Hvoyna, Chepelare Municipality of 31 October 2014, the Forest Executive Agency ordered by letter of 21 November 2014 all regional forestry directorates to carry out checks. The inspections must be completed by 19 December 2014 and concern existing and newly designed stationary traps for catching live game. They are carried out on the territory of the whole country in all hunting areas of state hunting farms, game farms to state forestry farms and the National Hunting Association of hunters and fishermen in Bulgaria. Such identical checks were carried out in September and October 2013 by all regional forest directorates for complaints by the same Initiative Committee, which organised the protest. No infringements have been detected as a result of the checks carried out. Following the verification from 2013 until now, there have been six permits issued by the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency for the construction of enclosed areas within the meaning of art. 8, para. 4 of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Five of these permits are for Wild game intensive management facilities in hunting areas of hunting associations, namely Petrich, Isperih, Smolyan, Shumen and As a result of the checks carried out in 2013 by all 16 regional forestry directorates on the construction of trappings for live game and on the construction of enclosed areas, the following is established: all newly built traps and intensive game management bases are provided for in the established and publicly discussed hunting plans; for all 31 newly built surrounding areas, since 2008, permits have been issued by the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency, which have been agreed in advance by the Minister of Environment and Water. With regard to your claim that the ethics and philosophy of hunting, concerning the capture of game by traps and placing it in enclosed areas for shooting, have been compromised, I inform you that one of the objectives of these enclosed areas is intensive hunting in hunting grounds, taking into account the biology of wild animals, which aims not to bother wild game in freedom. I would like to assure you that the check that has now been carried out after the last protest, its results will be presented in the report on 19 December, which I will further inform you, as this particular protest is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u175	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in for a cue, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u176	Dear Minister, I am not pleased with your answer. What you answered does not correspond to what is happening in the rented areas. In fact, almost all Bulgarian hunters can present you with the root opposite information of what you have. Hunters capture free game, which is state-owned and control of this game should be exercised by you through the Executive Agency, including through state forest enterprises. Animals that are government property are caught, placed in enclosures that are private, and shot off. This violates the rights of between 116 and 118 thousand. Bulgarian hunters who duly pay their membership contributions to the hunting and fishing union in the associations. I believe that the verification to be carried out should be carried out precisely by the privates. With regard to the enclosures in the forest areas, other than for animal treatment, intensive breeding and air conditioning, I do not know whether it is appropriate at all to make fences and to kill game in these fences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u177	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kenov, I will take note, and if your statement is true, then the Forest Executive Agency is not doing its job or has not done its job, because the results in the report I presented to you and the results of the inspection are for the period in 2013. I will check who are responsible for these checks. The checks awarded after the protest, as I explained to you, will come out on 19 December. Meanwhile, in the Forest Executive Agency, including by letters of the relevant associations, I believe that you are familiar, certain changes have been requested in the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, which really concerns the regime and control of the construction of fences. If you have signals for specific rented holdings and the placing of illegal fences, you can place them and you will be reported with the results of the inspection.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u179	Thank you, Madam Secretary. My fellow Members, I will make one clarification. The questions by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, which are under numbers 2 and 3 in the intended order of answers, become respectively Nos 8 and 9, and Nos 8 and 9 become respectively Nos 2 and 3. This is at the request of BSP left Bulgaria for procedural economy. Let's move on to the next question. Madam Minister, he is No. 9 in your preliminary project. The issue is from the National Representative Maya Manolova on increasing the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income of registered farmers in 2015. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I asked this question about the increase in farmers' contributions when it was only the government's intention. Now, unfortunately, it is almost a fact after the adoption of budgets at first reading. According to the government and the parliamentary majority next year, farmers will pay instead of 240 BGN. It's $420. It's monthly insurance. Reactions weren't delayed. Tobacco producers are on the street protesting, except for the delayed buy-out campaign of tobacco, but also against the growth of insurance contributions. Because these numbers have their specific dimension and a negative mark on the lives of one of the poorest Bulgarian citizens - farmers. In practice, with this change they will pay monthly BGN 44. more social security and 14 leva. more health insurance, which in one calendar year is 700 BGN. to a farmer. So they're going to pay BGN 1702. According to the rules which introduce the government and the parliamentary majority, an amount that is really impossible for them. It is good that my question coincides before the second reading and voting of the state budget, because it is important the position of the Minister of Agriculture, against the background of the protests of tobacco producers and given the commitment that GERB and the other parties from the quadruple coalition promised the poorest Bulgarians [[the President signals that time has run out]] , i.e. that they will not increase the tax and social security burden.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u181	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Manolova! On the basis of art. 4, para. 3, p. 4 of the Code of Social Security, persons active as registered farmers are subject to compulsory disability insurance due to general illness for old age and death. For the purposes of § 1, t. 5 of the Additional provisions of the Code of the Agricultural Registers are natural persons who produce plant and/or animal production intended for sale and are registered under the established order. The procedure for the registration of farmers is laid down in Ordinance No 3 of 1999 establishing and maintaining a register of farmers. On the basis of art. 3, para. 1 of the Ordinance of Registration shall be subject to legal persons, sole traders and natural persons over 18 years of age who manage agricultural land and/or produce agricultural produce. The quality of a farmer within the meaning of the Social Security Code shall be acquired after entry of the person in the register of farmers in the respective Regional Directorate for Agriculture. For the period during which they carry out agricultural activity, registered farmers shall be subject to compulsory insurance under art. 4, para. 3, p. 4 of the Social Security Code and art. 40, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. They contribute public social security contributions, additional compulsory pension insurance and health insurance fully at their own expense. In accordance with art. 4, para. 3, p. 4 of the Social Security Code, these persons are subject to compulsory disability insurance due to general illness for old age and death by contributing insurance contributions to the Fund. Registered farmers shall be provided at their own expense on monthly insurance income between the minimum and maximum monthly amount of income determined by the State Social Security Budget Act for the relevant year. Those producing unprocessed plant and/or animal production shall not determine the final amount of the insurance income for that activity. The minimum monthly amount of insurance income for registered farmers for 2014 is 240 BGN. Total the compulsory insurance contributions of one registered farmer for one year, with minimum monthly insurance income 240 BGN. for 2014, BGN 743,04. The proposed increase in minimum monthly insurance income for 2015 from 240 to 420 BGN. the compulsory insurance contributions of a farmer.. a natural person will increase in one year from 743,04 BGN. At 1,300,32 leva. According to the Ministry of Finance, the expected revenue effect, when increasing the minimum insurance income for farmers, is 12.8 million. lv. I note that after increasing the minimum monthly insurance income for registered farmers from 65 BGN. in 2009 at BGN 240 In 2010, the number of registered farmers supplied by 92 thousand individuals in 2009 decreased to 69 thousand people. Already at the beginning of this proposal, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and I, as a minister, expressed our disagreement with the proposed increase in this minimum insurance income, and we had guarantees and are currently being consulted on how to adopt this text and whether to accept it at 420 BGN, or less, or to postpone its adoption for 2016. I'd like to point out here one more moment. Yes, this increase will mostly affect small farmers. As of next year, the campaign to support farmers obliges each of them to have their own quality as an active farmer. What does an active farmer mean? This means that even those who did not register in 2010, if they want to continue the agricultural activity with the absorption of the eligible support, should receive this registration. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u183	I'd like you to focus on finishing up, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u184	I hope that the parliamentary groups here will agree that this proposal in this form will not be accepted, so that for the smallest farmers this is not an impossible burden for the next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u185	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Manolova, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u186	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I will also give you further arguments in support of your intention to oppose the increase in the insurance contributions of farmers next year. I have the written response of Minister Kalfin on the same subject. According to the calculations of the Social Ministry next year as a result of this change, the number of registered farmers will decrease by nearly 10,000 people, i.e. they will be 25 362 registered farmers, with revenue from the increased, according to the government's intentions, to be 19 million, i.e. only 8 million more than that collected in this calendar year. I really think that this 8 million will be the bloodiest for this social security budget, because it will be soaked with efforts, with the sweat of farmers. For these 8 million really is not worth putting on the knees of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who are living through an extremely difficult activity, namely agricultural production. Moreover, as you quite rightly said, some of them will register as farmers because they rely on European payments, which, according to the changes that the caretaker government started, will be for the smallest within 700-800-900 BGN. In practice, the European money that must help their farms, their farms, will go entirely into the budget of state social security. That's not fair, that's not fair, I'd say it's criminal. [[the President signals that time has run out]] about the people who make their money with sweat. I am glad that we think the same way and you have the support of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u188	Dear Mrs. Manolova, I, of course, hope that the consultations between the different ministries and here of the parliamentary groups will lead to a possible and bearable decision for farmers. The other thing I want, and the occasion for which I took the duplicate, I do not know in terms of the figures you quoted for support of 700 leva, which started the caretaker government for small producers, there is no such scheme or option, not to mislead viewers who are small farmers. There is a concept of direct payments, inside with ten schemes, which will apply to the small farmers, who, if they show a desire to join this scheme, because participation in it will exclude their ability to participate in the other schemes, will be able to receive an annual payment, which the state will determine as a size once it accepts all applications to participate in this scheme under a small farmer and the rate will be at least 500 euros to 1250 euros and it will be determined according to the volume and the declared activities. There's no 700 leva, so let's be clear about that. This scheme will mainly be for small producers and, above all, it will relieve them from the administrative obligations to submit applications each year, if there is overlap, to submit documents, or all this administrative application process every year. That'll be the scheme. Thank you all for your support in terms of providing. Regarding tobacco producers and protests, this is the point. Three of their demands. I expect after the parliamentary control Tsvetan Filev, Chairman of one of the major branch organizations, to come on the previous two points for changes in the legislation on support for next year in the budget, which I hope you will also support. As demands, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is in operation and the Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Tobacco and Tobacco Act is ready and provided after the consultation council for discussion, and with regard to the support in the State Fund of Agriculture, there will be an opportunity to maintain the support rate with the budget. So the third point is only the insurance income.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u189	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov about a plan for the land division in the town of Zladopol.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, property owners in the town of Zdalopol cannot sell and share their inheritance properties because they do not have a plan to land. The plan made was challenged in court and could not enter into force. Contracts for renting in such a case may be concluded in only one year. The lack of a land separation plan concerns about 2,500 landowners. The government of Plamen Oresharski has launched an action for the entry into force of a plan to land the land of the town of Zalzopol. At what stage is the procedure? When do you think the process will be finalized, and the inhabitants of the city will have an effective plan to land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u191	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iankov! The Minister of Agriculture and Food has approved a report of 23 April 2014 on the basis of which the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Agriculture in Varna and the Municipal Agriculture Office in Provadia have carried out and reported to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the availability and condition of the stored materials and data relevant to the plan for the land division of the town of Zladopol, namely. First, digital and graphical data and written documents used to design the previous plans for the land division of the town of Zdalopol. Source data and statistics are prepared by type of applicants, at the limits of applications submitted by former own and their heirs for the restoration of ownership under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land for the land of the town of Zladopol, through a specialized programme product. A check has been carried out at the borders of the territory referred to in Article 3 of Protocol No 3 of 16 December 1993. 18d of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land for the Land of the City of Dzhudopol, from which compliance of the same to date has been established. It has been found that a large part of the documentation available may, following checks and updates, serve as a basis for the development of the land separation plan. A technical assignment is currently being drawn up, which determines the type and volume of activities for the preparation of the survey plan. After his approval by me as Minister of Agriculture and Food, his execution will be given. The technical assignment shall specify the parameters of the draft plan announced in the Official Journal of the European Union for a period within which interested parties may submit objections. Objections shall be examined and approved or rejected by the committee designated by an administrative act. The objections adopted shall be further reflected in the project. A new adoption and announcement of the approved plan follows. The parameters of the technical assignment shall include: the development of a balance on the territory of the land separation plan, as provided by the Municipal Agriculture Office of Provadia, up-to-date data; the study of the decisions issued under art. 18g, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land; conduct of a survey to establish the current state and location of property owners; preparation of opinions by the contractor for the detailed organization of technical activities in the design of the project; preparation of preliminary design; creation of a digital model of the project and accompanying lists and balances. The activities are carried out by the legal persons within the meaning of the Cadastral Act and the property register under contract with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. As the volume of activities affects significant areas of agricultural land over 30 thousand acres, the necessary funds will be planned in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in 2015. Mr. Iankov, I assure you that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will do what is necessary for the completion of the activities for the preparation of the plan for land separation in the town of Zdalopol in the next 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u193	Here you go, Mr. Yankov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you that on behalf of the office you are in charge of, you have included in the next year's budget funds for the events that are needed. Within the following year, the residents of Dalgopol will expect, including your visit, to be able to freely share with you the problems they have had during the previous procedure, so that your experts, those who are subordinate to you, can do their work as purely as possible, so that there is no appeal to the new plan of land separation and that it will enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u195	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u196	Dear Mr. Iankov, I will respond to your request or invitation to meet with the residents of Dzhudopol. Even in my short stay so far as a minister, I continue to meet farmers from different regions and it is a fact that the problems on the ground stand out much clearer and easier. So after New Year's Eve, if you want to get involved in the process of preparing a technical assignment, to be open to relevant changes, it's okay to organise such a meeting with the residents.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u197	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to our next question. He is one of the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Georgi Andonov on the control of the management of a forest fund owned by the municipality of Belitsa, Blagoevgrad. Mr. Andonov, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u198	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister, as MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad, we have almost every Monday meetings with the voters in the different municipalities. One of our admissions to Belitsa Municipality less than a month ago, I was called upon by the citizens of the municipality in question for a number of irregularities regarding the management and compliance of a public resource, namely the municipal forests located in Belitsa Municipality. The municipality of Belitsa with a decision of the Bulgarian justice system since 2010 is the owner of nearly 23 thousand acres of municipal forest. The control, management and activities regarding this public resource are entirely within the prerogatives of the municipality, in particular of the Municipal Council and the municipal mayor. The citizens themselves presented documentation of numerous irregularities in terms of governance, the rules of procedure of the municipal forest, with regard to illegal logging, with regard to non-compliance with a bunch of regulations and laws relating to the proper and legal management of this public resource. Control in respect of compliance with all laws relating to forest management is a pure prerogative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in particular the Executive Forest Agency. In this regard, our questions to you, Madam Minister, are: are the laws concerning the use, management and management of the forest fund owned by the municipality of Belitsa broken? Have there been cases of illegal mining on the territory of the municipal forest in question? What checks have been carried out, and what have they established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u199	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andonov, regarding the use, management and management of the forest areas owned by the municipality of Belitsa, Blagoevgrad District, was ordered by the Regional Directorate of Forests of Blagoevgrad to carry out an inspection of the case. As a result of the verification carried out in the period 21 November this year, the following was established. Forest territories owned by the municipality fall within the area of activity of two state-owned forestry farms which are territorial units of the South-West State-owned enterprise The area of forests owned by the municipality of Belitsa is 3 thousand respectively. 137 hectares in the area of activity of the state-owned agricultural holding and 1897 hectares in the area of activity of the state-owned agricultural holding "Eleshnitsa", including forests restored by judicial means, forested and self-forested areas owned by the municipality. By letter dated 19 November 2014, the municipality of Belitsa informed the Regional Directorate of Forests of additional restoration of forests in the village of Eleshnitsa and the village of Zlataritsa. The total area of the additional renovated properties is 2 thousand. 651 hectares. The form of management of municipal forests according to the requirements of art. 181 of the Forests Act was chosen by Decision No 14 of Protocol No 2 of 28 January 2010 of the Municipal Council in Belitsa. The same is a municipal forest structure organized as a structural unit in the administration of the municipality. Regional Directorate of Forests, Blagoevgrad, conducts regular checks on compliance with the Forests Act and its implementing regulations with regard to activities in forest areas owned by the municipality of Belitsa. From the beginning of 2014 until now, checks have been carried out on 17 plantings for which permits have been issued and logging is carried out. The verified plantings did not show any breaches of the regulations. During the complex verification of the activities of the municipal forest structure the documentary work of the department in the municipality, the grounds of the granted permits for logging, as well as other documents required by the regulations. Regarding the existence of illegal timber production in the municipal forest territories by employees of the Regional Forest Directorate of Blagoevgrad, three cases of illegal plantings have been reported for this year. For them there is no permit for logging and it is about the extraction of firewood. Two of the violations were detected during the complex verification of the state-owned holding "Eleshnitsa". The third infringement found was found on a signal for 12 trees being cut off without being marked and without clearing permission. Prescriptions are given for the detected deficiencies of the municipality. As of 20 November 2014 in the Regional Directorate of Forests, Blagoevgrad has not received a report from the municipality of Belitsa on the actions they have taken, in view of which two acts have been drawn up to establish an administrative infringement for non-exercise control by officials. In recent years, forest conservation has been one of the painful themes of society, because in many places violations are visible. There is evidence in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that, from 2012 to 2014, the number of violations detected and the penal decrees issued decreased because of the weak control, which is why we have taken a package of measures to protect the forest areas and comply with the Forest Act, and we have announced this package of measures. One of the measures is the creation of mobile new 173 teams operating in the territory of state forest enterprises and their territorial divisions on a schedule managed by the person concerned by the enterprise, each of the mobile teams in the territory of which it was established, controls and neighbouring territories.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u201	Madam Minister, you've almost had a minute. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u202	I would like to assure you that we will continue to implement the other measures of the entire package in terms of protecting forests from illegal violations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u203	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Andonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u204	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I also thank you for the ordered inspection for which you have issued an order to be carried out with regard to the management of this public resource. I hope that the residents of Belitsa municipality have observed the parliamentary control procedure and are provoked, be active with specific data regarding violations in the management of this public resource, and that competent authorities will also be referred to in your person as Minister of Agriculture and Food. I would really like to call on you to control the management of these public resources relating to the management of municipal forests, not to stop, to be permanent and to do everything possible to protect public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u205	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. I take it you don't have an ass. [[turns to Minister Taneva]] . No. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov concerning illegal logging in the territory of Targovishte district. You have the floor to develop your question. Before you begin, I shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that parliamentary control will continue until 2:33 p.m. The time during which the parliamentary groups made declarations during the parliamentary control period. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question to some extent overlaps with that of colleagues from GERB. During the meetings that I have held in the last two months with a number of citizens throughout the region of Targovishte, I have been informed that illegal logging is observed in places, at least according to the citizens themselves, and there is a naked logging that is already prohibited. It is for this reason that I have described it in my question and pointed out the name of the person who was given to me as a known intruder in the region, that is, his name is bound for one, with the sound nickname "Saxana." I asked you a question because we cannot lightly squander our exceptional natural wealth. This is also the main concern of the residents of Targovishte district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u207	Thank you. For your answer please come in, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, about illegal logging by the person quoted by you has been examined in the internal information system of the Executive Forest Agency. Currently there is a registered facility for processing and expedition of wood according to art. 206 of the Law on Forests in the area of Yarana of a company whose manager is the person. The verification did not establish the person and the company to have acts of administrative infringement under the Forests Act in the last three years. In 2014, the company's site was examined five times, where no violations were detected again. If the person has taken naked cuttings into the area, it is only possible to remove cuttings with low-strength acacia crops in which such events are allowed legally. In 2014, inspectors from the Regional Forest Directorate of the city of Shumen checked two of the clearings in which the logging was carried out by the person designated by you, where no violations have been detected again. In the Regional Forest Directorate, Shumen and the Forest Executive Agency have not received any illegal logging signals carried out by the person concerned. In the period 1 January 2012 - 27 November 2014 more than 700 acts for the identification of an administrative infringement were drawn up in the Targovishte district. The documents with which the transport of wood is carried out shall be systematically checked for the way in which they are drawn up and for the identity between a transport ticket issued and its annexes, both from temporary warehouses and at sites registered under art. 206 of the Forest Act. In all cases of illegal extraction, transport and storage of wood, materials shall be sent according to the competence of the relevant prosecutors. The latter case for a greater infringement of the processing of wood, not accompanied by documents proving its legal origin, in a registered establishment under art. 206 of the Forest Law is in the village of Rutlina. The materials in this case shall be sent by the jurisdiction of the Grand Preslav Regional Prosecutor's Office in this year. In Targovishte District, in the last three years, forest inspectors of the Regional Forest Directorate Shumen have checked a total of 344 sections, of which 67 pieces in 2014. Such checks shall also be carried out by the team of forest guards established for this purpose in the Gorskoje city of Omurtag, in the territories of the municipalities of Omurtag and Antonovo. They also send to the District Prosecutor's Office in the city of Omurtag the materials on detected violations. During this year in view of the turnover of forest inspectors in the municipalities Omurtag and Antonovo checks were carried out by the team in the town of Targovishte. A plantation inspection as quoted by you has been ordered by the Forest Executive Agency. Information on the results will be provided to you in writing by 15 December this year. Mr. Alexandrov, outside the answer, which eventually covers some period until mid-November as results, I would also like to say that on my Facebook page similar signals for the same areas and for the same person I have received. I immediately ordered an appropriate inspection by the Forest Executive Agency. In two cases, they proved to be absolutely justified and there are offenders caught and violations found in respect of illegal timber production. One was on the territory of the municipality of Antonovo, the other is in the areas and for the intruders you say. The materials are in the appropriate procedure for drawing up the acts. So every single signal that you set, which I receive, including via electronic media, is being checked accordingly. In view of also some local dependencies and given the staff of the Executive Forest Agency in Shumen, these checks were carried out on orders from employees of the Executive Forest Agency "Veliko Tarnovo."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u209	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in for a cue, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your answer. Because I did a rather vague check in advance of the electronic media myself. What I have found is that this is from 2008. There is even a whole scandal that goes out in the media, with the patronage of the local prosecutor's office in Omurtag precisely on this person and then naturally the prosecutor is removed in 2011, but indeed there are many disturbing things on Targovishte's territory. People are worried for good reason. As you have already exported it purely as data, I would be extremely happy to receive it in writing so that I can present it to the residents of the area so that they can review it. And I beg you, if you have this opportunity, let's actually come if you need a check from Sofia, not a local one. It is good that you have moved to Veliko Tarnovo already to do it, but to do it from Sofia. If you want me to participate, because you understand very well that forests actually, although a restored energy source, can also be considered as such, but very slowly recover and the background of floods in the region people associate it with the fact that the implementation of a naked logging increases the flow of water and thus increases the possibility of floods, from landslides and a number of other things. By including the game in them, it becomes really very disturbing. And in this region there are extremely many villages that live from this, not only by logging, but also by catching wild animals and their breeding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u211	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u212	Dear Mr. Alexandrov, yes, the checks on these signals were indeed carried out by individuals who work in the Regional Forest Directorate, which is not responsible for the scope in question, precisely because of these dependencies. However, we, as the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, understand that we cannot influence the addictions of other institutions and each head of the institution concerned, in my opinion, must bear responsibility. With regard to floods and illegal logging of certain water areas that increase the risk of flooding, I am taking this opportunity to inform you that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has prepared a proposal to the Council of Ministers for a decree that will increase the territory of protected forest areas by 5% or increase them at least twice. These are new 17 500 hectares of forest areas in which, after the adoption of this decree and their declaration of protection, the forest plans there change and the logging is much more sparing so as not to allow risks to flood. I hope this will happen, if not by the end of the year, at the beginning of the next. All of these properties of 17,500 hectares are strictly individualized, submitted by the respective state forest enterprises and concern areas which are waterforest areas and with risks for similar disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u213	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to our next question. He is from the National Representative Ivan Stankov on the payment of the funds due for the implementation of the State Prevention Program and the programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases for 2014. Here you are, Mr. Stankov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the current 2014 is characterized by very serious animal diseases, as well as very complex relationships between private and state practitioners, as well as with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The state preventive programme and other programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases had to be implemented by private practitioners. They refused to do so, and much of these functions were taken over by the state doctors. The necessary contracts were concluded for this purpose. Everything was done. The program was implemented where well, where not so well, but still the state doctors took over these functions at a decisive time. The advance has been received, however, as far as I understand from the day before, there is a decision that there will already be such a payment, but a new question follows: why do private practitioners pay 100% the necessary funds, and the state doctors pay 40% less? The excitement of the state doctors is quite great. A few people are already calling me, so I'm asking this question: why is there such a difference? Will it be compensated in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u215	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stankov, I just want to let you know that what you said really is true. On 4 December 2014, at a meeting of the Management Board of the State Fund, a item was examined on the agenda concerning the validation of the Guidelines for the implementation of State aid to compensate farmers for the costs associated with the identification of animals and the implementation of measures under the State Prevention Programme and programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases for 2014. A decision has been taken to validate the allocation resource under the scheme, as well as to draw up guidelines by the Fund on the time limits related to the submission of applications and payment of the funds for the activities carried out. According to the Guidelines, the funds are paid up to 10 working days after submission of a request by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The deadline for submitting an application for payment of the aid shall be 15 December 2014. Indeed, this week after the budget update, we have made a decision that has been signed and the work of veterinarians from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, who have practically done part of the activities of private practitioners, will be repaid and paid for, and quite in detail it includes and is divided, according to the volume of work and whether it is at work or at work. Why aren't the rates even? As far as I'm concerned, if we're looking for a flat rate, first of all, what happened wasn't normal. The whole situation wasn't normal. It was not normal for private veterinarians to refuse their duties and practically the state veterinarians did so, if you will, by calling and despite the law in force. In this sense there is no way to look for such levelling because they are practically related to the state in the face of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency as an employer. The problem is that, obviously, in order not to get into such problems again, we should think about changes in legislation that will solve such cases. Since I have been in meetings with enough industry organisations in livestock farming during this period, I would like to express their satisfaction and satisfaction with the work and the way the state veterinarians have done the work. The year that goes away is very difficult for livestock, with very severe damage, including from the diseases and the epidemic that has taken place, from the.......................................................................................... That's the severance package. We have no opportunity, I say again, given the way this has happened, to level the payment with that of private practitioners, as it is practically an additional income on the salary they receive.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u217	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u218	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm satisfied with the answer you gave. Let us hope that fellow veterinarians will be satisfied. I am convinced that you are well aware of these problems. You are already expressing this many times, but I would like to tell you that there is really no equal between public and private practitioners. In the state, there are one or more persons assigned to regional services who have huge responsibilities. They must monitor not only health, but also food safety. Very often I have to, in conversations with them, I have been told, by their own means, by their own means, by their own means, by their own means, to take samples, to carry them in laboratories and they are not paid anywhere. Their wages are insignificant, which means that they have very serious problems, and in the future we need to think about how we will repay them, because it is a very responsible work. We believe that this should also be linked to national security, because food qualities are related to the security of people. One more question that we are discussing all the time. In many slaughterhouses there are no appointed doctors, and there are seals. It's very dangerous and, God forbid, something happens to some disease, responsibilities will first be sought by the minister. These questions should be addressed and together looking for solutions, because more important than providing quality and safe food to people, there is none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u219	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u220	As an expression of respect for the authority of prof. Stankov, I want to thank you for your constructive attitude. The fact is that there are problems in this relationship and it is good with consensus to sit down and change what needs to be done in order not to get the situation from the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u221	Thank you, Minister Taneva. We move on to a next question, which is also from the National Representative Ivan Stankov, about the formation of an interdepartmental commission for consideration of the controversial texts in the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria. Here you go, Professor. Stankov, you have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u222	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! In 2012, the Commission for Protection of Competition conducted a preliminary review of the provisions of the current Animal Health Act and the Law on the word organisation of veterinarians in Bulgaria and came out with Conclusion No 274 of 13 March 2012, where a number of texts of these regulations are defined as discriminatory. Despite the strong opinion of the 7-member panel of the committee, the conclusions in question, from which the Republic of Bulgaria is currently undergoing criminal procedures, have not been taken into account. Even we are describing who they are - these are several criminal procedures of the European Commission. My question to you is: when will an interdepartmental committee be formed to examine all the controversial texts in the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria and will come up with a proposal to amend the legal basis in order to synchronise national legislation with the European legal framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u223	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Stankov! By an official notification letter on 21 February 2014, the European Commission launched a infringement procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria No 2013/22/65 concerning non-compliance with certain provisions of the Animal Health Act, the Code of Good Veterinary Practice and Professional Ethics of the Veterinary Doctor and the Law on the Word Organization of Veterinary Physicians in Bulgaria with art. Art. 49, Art. 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Article 15 16 of Directive 2006/123/EC or Services Directive. With the position sent on 15 April 2014 Bulgaria informed the European Commission about the adopted amendments and additions to the Animal Health Act in 2013. They removed the identified contradictions with European legislation. The position includes an opinion of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union, regardless of its arguments, the Bulgarian side expressed its intention to comply with the discrepancies identified by the European Commission. On 26 September 2014, the Republic of Bulgaria received a reasoned opinion on the infringement procedure, which was the last warning to the Member State prior to the transition to a judicial phase. By order of 29 September 2014 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the interdepartmental working group was formed with the task of preparing a draft proposal for amendment of the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria. The amendment will be in the part concerning the introduction of mandatory minimum prices for services provided by veterinarians. In the position sent to the European Commission on 25 November 2014 the Republic of Bulgaria undertook to amend the Law on the word organisation of veterinarians in Bulgaria and to repeal the Act. 9 of art. 12, para. 1. With this change will be completely overcome the existing contradiction of the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria with the provisions of art. Art. 49, Art. 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as with art. Article 15 (2) (g) and Article 15 (2) (g) 16 of the Services Directive. In the position is also set a timetable according to which the interdepartmental working group will draft a bill amending the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria by 15 December 2014. The bill will be submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers by 27 February 2015 due to the procedures to be passed. In addition, the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes to amend the Code of Good Veterinary Practice and Professional Ethics of the Veterinary Doctor within one month after the publication in the Official Journal of the Law amending the Law on the Word Organization of Veterinary Physicians in Bulgaria. The amendment of the code is within the competence of the General Assembly of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union, which according to art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria accepts this Code. I hope that we will implement all the recommendations we have.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u225	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u226	Just a few sentences. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer. I am pleased that the necessary measures have been taken. They are essential because there are some crazy things in the laws that concern animal health. I will only quote this to you: in art. 27, para. 2 is indicated that in order to obtain the right to develop their own practice, veterinarians must have professional experience for at least three years. Until then, they have to work as hired workers. Do you think they'll hire them? The student's anxiety is very high. I say this as a person who communicates with these students all the time. I've got teaching to do. There are a number of other things we need to clean up. There is a misunderstanding with regard to food quality and safety. That's two different things. There are often activities of people who have competence on only one of these issues. So there are things we really need to touch. I hope that, within the framework of our mandate, we will be able to do this. I make specific commitments because the need for this is very great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u227	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Minister Taneva, will you take advantage of your right to the coat? No. We are moving on to the next question asked by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova about changing the rules of nature parks by the Executive Forest Agency from September 2014. Professor Bachvarova, you have the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is related to the actual change of the rules of nature by the Executive Forest Agency, which took place in September 2014. When changing these regulations, a restrictive text for the selection of the Director of Natural Park is laid down: The Director of the Nature Park Directorate can be a person with higher magistrate education within the meaning of § 1, item. 32 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Forests or with higher education in the field of environmental science and environmental protection and education with a Master's degree and with an internship in the specialty of not less than 7 years acquired after the completion of the higher education. This is the controversial text that is being attacked by parks from the point of view of published rules of procedure. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the directorates of natural parks are specialized territorial units and carry out their activities within the meaning of art. 159, para. 1 of the Forest Law. There, the requirements for the job held are different from what appeared in the rules of procedure. My questions are related to this I suppose that you have had enough time to see the contradiction of this regulation with the requirements of the Forests Act. 159 and respectively the requirements for the post held of art. 160. The other question that I am interested in is based on the change of the rules of procedure...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u229	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, according to art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts, the regulation must comply with the Constitution and other regulations of a higher degree. The rules of procedure of the Directorates of Natural Parks, which are specialized territorial units of the Executive Forest Agency, shall be validated by the Executive Director of the IAG on the basis of art. 161 of the Forest Law. The same are not contrary to higher-level regulations, as in this case is the Law on Forests. They shall not amend or supplement it for the following reasons. Directed natural parks according to art. 52 of the Law on Protected Areas is set up for the implementation of plans for the management of natural parks, the implementation of activities for the management, conservation and protection of forests, land and water areas in protected areas, which are not exclusive state ownership. More than 70% of the area of natural parks covers forests and forest areas within the meaning of the Forests Act, which defines the specifics of the majority of renewable and supporting activities to be carried out in them. That shall determine the education to be held by the person holding the post of Director of the Nature Park Directorate and which will most fully correspond to the subject of the activity of the same. In accordance with art. 160, para. 3 of the Forests Act, Director of a specialized territorial unit, may be a person with higher education corresponding to the subject of activity of the specialized territorial unit, with the Master's degree of education, with an internship in the speciality of not less than 7 years acquired after completion of the higher education. The Executive Director of the Nature Parks Directorates shall be the Executive Director of the IAG. It is he who makes an assessment of the compliance of the education of applicants for the occupation of that position with the subject of activity of a specialised territorial unit. In view of the above, the amendments and additions made to the regulations of the Directorates of Natural Parks do not change or supplement the Law on Forests or any other regulation of a higher degree. As regards the issue of changing directors of natural parks on the basis of the change, with the requirements of the position held, I inform you that two shifts have been made: the Director of the Directorate of Natural Park Shumensko Plateau with higher education in the field of law, and the Director of the Directorate of Nature Park Sinestones with higher education in the specialty of biology and chemistry. Those specialities do not correspond to the subject of activity of the Nature Park Directorate. Since you asked me if these shifts were in my mandate as a minister, I think they weren't. At least I don't have any information in the current government's mandate that we've been working shifts. From the beginning of 2014 until now, 6 competitions for directors of Directorates of Natural Parks have been held in the light of the fact that the persons who held the position of the Director until their announcement were appointed without a contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u231	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Bachvarova, please come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u232	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! However, we are under the impression that this change of the rules of procedure and narrowing the scope of those who can take up the relevant position Apart from that, you know that nature parks as structures, as you read art. 161, para. 3, there is an imperative record of what are the requirements of the Master with 7 years of internship. Why are we narrowing it down? This is a question which will accordingly have its interpretations in the objections made by the directors, which have attacked the rules of procedure in the Supreme Administrative Court. Furthermore, the majority of those to be replaced are under the impression that one of the main reasons is the large number of contracts they implement under the Operational Programme. In the 11 parks, the funds being used are about 45 million. lv. The reasoned assumption is that this is precisely one of the reasons for the change and not the work done poorly. In any case, we will follow the process of realising these objections in the Supreme Administrative Court and then giving an opinion on the legality of this legal act, the Rules of Procedure, will be a fact or will be in accordance with your assumptions that this is a completely legal order of yours and meets the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Forest Executive Agency as President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u233	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u234	Of course, we from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will also monitor the objections and decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. Whatever it is, we'll figure it out. I am only taking the duplicate to express my opinion that when we are talking about justified assumptions about certain actions, let us draw from the real work and the results, regardless of which government service we are talking about. Yeah, they run projects, too. I regret that I am not at the moment ready to send you statistics on what delays there are in the course where such projects are being implemented and how much money will remain at risk of being lost, not to be digested, precisely because of the way they are working. Yes, of course, the law must be implemented as it is, but always as governors, we must also do the evaluation on the results of any state unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u235	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He has also been asked by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova (Piralkova) on the loss of funds under the Rural Development Programme during the period 2007-2013. You're welcome to develop the subject, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Madam Minister, we are really very worried about all of us following the information that comes out, including from the Ministry of Agriculture, from the political team, about the possible loss of funds under the Rural Development Programme in the period 2007-2013. Your team came up with different assumptions, respectively one of the options started at 74 million. EUR loss, which is a very realistic-optimistic option, to the pessimistic 100 million option. It's as if these are the numbers around which your team is uniting that the losses will be close to 100 million. EUR 2014 From this point of view, it is important to inform us what costs or what funds will be paid for 2014 in order to minimize and reduce losses under the Rural Development Programme. However, the greater concern is for the period 2015 because, if we want the loss of funds to be minimal, in practice the Ministry and all teams in the administration should start working from the beginning of 2015. You know that in 2015, which is the last for the programme, we have to pay a total public resource of 750 million. EUR, which is formed as follows: 470 million EUR is for the indicative budget for 2013; we have 183 million. EUR, which is respectively the funds granted to the municipalities, which must be recovered accordingly. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. euros that must also be used. My question to you, which therefore has more weight, is really related to the measures, to the action plan, if you have developed for 2015, which will take the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to minimize these losses and the funds to really go their way and to be paid out within the time limit specified by the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u237	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, Ministry of Agriculture and Food and State Fund First: the deadlines for processing payment applications are significantly reduced; a constant link is maintained with the beneficiaries and, if necessary, the relevant administrative assistance is provided; a study has been carried out on all projects that expire in 2014. The paying agency has done its best to assist beneficiaries in order to apply for interim or final payment before the end of 2014. By orders of 25 June 2014 of the Executive Director of the State Fund........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In relation to the implementation of these measures, action has been taken to examine project proposals and contract procedures. With regard to the second question raised, the amount of the expected payments by the end of 2014, I inform you of the following. The estimated amounts of payments by the end of 2014 under the investment measures are within 84 million to 135 million. lv. total public funds. By the end of the calendar year 2014, it is envisaged that the amounts for authorisation under the compensatory measures per area of the Programme will amount to 363 million. lv. The expectations and the regime we will be working on are that in the week by 20 December they will be paid off. You know, we announced today that we paid off European funds on the specific support of livestock farmers. The compensatory measures on the area under which authorisation will be carried out are: Measure 211; Measure 212; Measure 213 and Measure 214. The estimated amount of 363 million. lv. on the implementation of the measures of Axis 2 of the Programme is based on applications for the campaign and authorisation from the previous campaign. In calendar 2015, the options for the management level impact on the implementation of the Programme will be very limited. This is due to the fact that the programming period ends and the deadline for payment is 31 December 2015. With regard to the administration of applications for assistance already received under implementation, the Managing Authority of the Programme, together with the implementing authority, shall take and shall take all measures provided for in the legislation to pay as much of the resources available under the Programme as possible. In addition, this process has already been launched within calendar year 2014. With the sending of the European Commission services to the 14th Amendment of the Programme in October 2014 it is envisaged to redirect a resource of 89 million. EUR to Measure 121. It is also envisaged that the State Fund......................................................................................................... The State Fund has negotiated the budgets under all measures under the Rural Development Programme 2007 - 2013. Due to this fact, at the very end of the programming period, some negotiating over the size of the budgets under certain measures with a large percentage of unrealized projects was undertaken in 2013 as a measure to prevent the loss of funds under the Programme due to insufficient absorption. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The fact that part of the contracts concluded are not implemented is also related to the adverse financial and economic environment in the country over the last two years and the difficulties, especially for private beneficiaries, to provide pre-financing for the implementation of their projects. It should also be noted that in the period December 2013 "July 2014 there was an exceptional delay by the management of the State Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ All this inevitably led to delays in the implementation of the projects, especially to municipalities, which gives a reflection of the submission of payment applications. Despite the delay, the Managing Authority of the Programme, together with the implementing authority, shall continue to implement and take measures to maximise budgetary absorption.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u239	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Bachvarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I would kind of agree with you that there are problems with payment requests, but as if from the information we have, including from the Ministry and the consultants who have submitted their views accordingly, the biggest problem comes from the expected requests for municipalities. There, the limit they work for is 124 to 40 million. That is, if you do not pay attention to the municipalities to carry out their projects in optimal terms, the losses for 2015 will be even greater compared to 2014. I hope that you will really succeed in your efforts to organize well the work of the administration in the State Fund............................ to minimize these losses, especially in 2015. And an additional question relating to the information that came out a few days ago and it is a proposal by Poland to extend payments to June 2016: has the Ministry of Agriculture and Food taken the necessary measures not only to support this request of the parties, including Poland, but also to make the necessary justifications for the need? You know that the Sapard program had an extension of about a year and a half in the way of payment. This made it possible to really absorb funds significantly better compared to the forecasts we are currently making by September 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u241	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Minister Taneva, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u242	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova! Yes, there is a proposal from Poland. It will be discussed at a point at the Council of Ministers, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday in Brussels. Bulgaria, of course, supports it. She has done everything necessary, including an analysis of the need to adopt such a decision. This discussion on Monday has no legislative character, and even if consensus is reached from here on, its legislative adoption will be sought. The second thing I want to tell you about. Yes, and I believe that the State Fund will organise its work in a way that will not allow loss of funds, which for this year we will have a record for many reasons. It is within what you said, as you are working on three options. I would like to point out that it is extremely important to work on all measures, respecting the common rules and regulations of the European Union, because, as a result of the implementation of the 2007-2013 Programme, Bulgaria has already been sanctioned by 60 million. EUR, half of which is sanctioned for problems with municipal projects. Apart from that, there are four other proposals for financial corrections by the European Commission on procedures that have not been completed and are at an early stage, on which the proposed total sanction is 248 million. Euros. The main part of these procedures is for problems in the implementation of the rules in municipal projects. So we have to be very precise and strictly follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-12.u243	Thank you, dear Minister. Honourable Members, we have run out of time for today's parliamentary control, which is why I am closing this meeting. Let's thank Minister Taneva for her participation. The next regular meeting on Wednesday, 17 December 2014, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
