ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as is known, yesterday in the National Assembly received Decree No 244 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, proposing the National Assembly to elect a Prime Minister with specific candidates for the Council of Ministers. On that basis and on the basis of art. 49, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose the following agenda of the plenary sitting today: 1. Election of Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers. 3. Election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please, voting mode. [[The Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Georgi Bliznashki and the members of the office enter.]] Vote 231 MPs: 214, against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. According to the established parliamentary tradition, I propose direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio of the points and drafts for decisions which I hope will become decisions at the Forty-third National Assembly today. I put to the vote this procedural proposal for direct broadcast. Vote 229 MPs: for 229, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of the National Television and National Radio respectively. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, on 6 November 2014 a letter was received from the Secretary General of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rosen Kozhuharov, saying: "Applied, I am sending you a decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria No 244 of 6 November 2014, with which on the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Head of State proposes to the National Assembly to elect Boyko Metodiev Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from the parliamentary groups of GERB, Reformist Bloc, Patriotic Front, Bulgarian Democratic Center.]] Here is the very decree: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm On the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I SAY: I propose to the Forty-third National Assembly to elect Boyko Metodiev Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decree was issued on 6 November 2014. President of the Republic Mr. Rosen Plevneliev. I give the floor to Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov to present biographical data on proposals for Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u2	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, Your Excellencies, Your Eminence, Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister of the Office, ladies and gentlemen Ministers of the Office! In the execution of a procedure under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with Decree No 244 of 6 November 2014 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria I have the high honour to present to you the biographical reference of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Metodiev Borisov. Boyko Metodiev Borisov was born on 13 June 1959. He graduated from the Higher Special School of the Ministry of Interior. From 1985 to 1990 he was a lecturer at the Higher Institute for Training Officers and Research at the Ministry of the Interior. He defended a dissertation on the topic of Psychophysic preparation of the staff and was awarded a scientific degree by Doctor. In 1990 he left the system of the Ministry of Interior, and in 1991 he founded one of the largest security companies in the country, which is a member of the World Organization of Guards and of which Mr. Borisov is a personal member. In 2001 he was appointed Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior with a decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. By decree of 2002 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Petar Stoyanov was awarded the title of Major General and in 2004 with the Decree of President Georgi Parvanov was awarded the title of General. During its professional realization in the Ministry of Interior has been awarded many times by the Minister of Interior and has been awarded numerous international awards to the law enforcement authorities of the Euro-Atlantic countries and Russia, among which:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In 2005 he was elected mayor of Sofia. In 2007, he was elected again as mayor of the capital in the regular local vote. In 2009, Mr. Borisov was elected by the 40th National Assembly for Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. In May 2013 he was elected MP at the Forty-second National Assembly and Chairman of the largest parliamentary group represented by GERB. After the early parliamentary elections held in October this year, Mr. Borisov was again elected MP and chairman of the largest parliamentary party represented by GERB. Today Mr. Borisov is again nominated Prime Minister and is called to form a government of the Republic of Bulgaria. We are convinced that Bulgaria's Prime Minister will face serious challenges, given the country's difficult economic situation and the accumulated problems. The responsibility is enormous, but I am sure of the firm will and determination of Mr. Borisov, in the dedication with which he will work to get out of this severe crisis. I believe that, together with the team of the Council of Ministers, with the parliamentary support that will be received today, the future government of Bulgaria will actually be able to achieve political and institutional stability, which is most important for our country at this difficult time. I'd like to thank you all for your attention. I would like to wish success for the election of Mr. Borisov and his staff in the Council of Ministers and I hope that starting today we are starting a new, good future for Bulgaria. I am convinced that together with parliamentary support and, of course, with the opposition, we will be able to build Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Dear Mr. Borisov, you have the floor to address the MPs and present the structure of the Council of Ministers and its staff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u4	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Your Holiness, representatives of the creeds, dear Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues, your excellences! After a month of consultations in parliament, in which the people sent a record number of parties, we are trying to introduce to you a pro-European reformist government for a stable Bulgaria. After a nearly two-year period of political instability today, Bulgaria faces a series of challenges - a difficult economic situation, a crisis in public finances and the banking sector, deficits in the energy sector, blocked funding under key operational programmes and a delayed start of the new programming period 2014-2020, severe social problems for a large part of Bulgarian citizens, lack and delay of reforms in a number of sectors - education, health, justice, public administration, loss of trust by our main partners in the European Union. Many of these topics can be transferred not only to the last two years, but also to the last twenty. Conscious of these difficulties, we from GERB, our partners from the Reformation Bloc, the political forces who declared their support for the new government, the Patriotic Front and Coalition ABB, take responsibility for their overcoming. With the powers of GERB's mandate, we are forming a pro-European reformist government and once again pointing out that outside of this mandate, today we simply had to announce that we are going to elections. So let's all consider this. Pro-European because we share the belief that there are no foreign policy scenarios for Bulgaria other than Euro-Atlantic because we believe that the direction of our country's development follows the European path and progress depends on its unwavering follow. Because even at the seventh year of our membership in the European Union, we still need modernization of infrastructure, public administration, political rules and standards. And because all this cannot be achieved without our responsible attitude towards EU funds. Our government is reforming because we find that the structure, the way of organisation and control in a number of sectors are irrevocably outdated and do not meet the needs and requirements of citizens. Because taxpayers' money is being spent inefficiently, and for this reason even the increase in funding does not lead to better services, as in healthcare. Because behind our pro-European reform cabinet is a political and public consensus that reforms are necessary. We know that in order to produce results in a few years, reforms must start immediately and their deadline is today. The government will lay the foundations and will work, and we hope to ensure a stable development of Bulgaria. It is not only up to these four parties that depends on the opposition, it also depends on everyone who we are here. Our employer the Bulgarian citizen, our partner the Bulgarian business and foreign investors have the right to see a sustainable and long-term perspective for their future. Time to go to work, time to build. In order to achieve this, to set the following main political objectives: 1. To ensure the functioning of the state by stabilizing the institutions, preventing the economic, political and judiciary from joining against citizens' interests. 2. Mobilizing our efforts and the potential of the public, the private sector, of civil energy to determine the best solutions for reforming the state. 3. To outline a clear perspective for development for at least a decade to come. 4. To make Bulgaria a good place to live, to turn it into a stable and strong state, to improve the public environment in order not to allow democracy to be replaced. 5. To modernise governance in sync with the development of modern global processes and technologies. Through the education of young Bulgarians to form generations capable of caring for the future of the state. 6. To achieve rapid and significant economic growth on this basis, to create new jobs and to sustainablely increase incomes. 7. To provide citizens with social rights and reached levels of social payments, using every opportunity to raise them. 8. To pursue a social policy that helps vulnerable groups and unemployed. 9. Using the means of European solidarity and in the most effective way to distribute them fairly and transparently. To strengthen the effect of infrastructure resources in projects that improve the public business and investment environment and preserve the nature of Bulgaria. 10. To guarantee the country's national and energy independence. 11. To be guided by the rule of law as the basis for the restoration of justice and as a mandatory condition for the good business and public environment. I believe that these points can be entered or are in the programmes of all parties that are in this Parliament. The policies that will implement these priorities are reflected and developed in a programme declaration by the pro-European reformist government. It was developed on the basis of the political program of GERB and is combined with policies, ideas and measures from the program of the Reformation Block. The contribution to the programme declaration and the priorities of the programs of the ABB and the Patriotic Front is essential. With the development of this programme document and its adoption by four political forces, we are committed to the most important national policies. We firmly believe that this programme is the best possible basis for stable development and national understanding. The model of the pro-European reformist government and its common political programme have no analogue since the beginning of the transition. We are motivated by the policy that we will conduct, to bring concrete results and to set a new beginning for a positive change in the political and social environment in Bulgaria, because today more than ever the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian state need a spirit of understanding and tolerance, a lot of work and concrete results from it. The results of the last parliamentary elections have given us a complex task, sending many different political forces to parliament. In such a situation, we all had reason as politicians to say that this complex parliamentary representation cannot broadcast a stable government. Each of us can say that and look as the only remaining outcome for the re-elections in the hope that they will produce a more sustainable formula. All of us, and most of all, have had the right to this normal and understandable political step, but not as politicians, but as statesmen we do not need to talk about new parliamentary elections today. By the way, it was said by the party without one party, everyone else. So today I take the heavy responsibility to head and lead the new Bulgarian government. I am pleased that, under the responsibility of the greatest political power, we have succeeded in combining the principles and objectives for which we have received support with possible political compromises. I thank all those who replaced the loud political speeches with the dialogue, the slogans with arguments. I thank all those who gave up the dogmas in the name of consent and who took the risk of suffering political damage in the name of Bulgaria having a government. I would also like to thank those with whom we have spoken, but for one reason or another, we have not agreed. I wish to be a strong and principled corrective of governance, because the results of one government also depend on the quality of the opposition. We have come to this day after heavy discussions and debates, but we are pleased that in the course of the consultations and negotiations that we have brought back the true meaning of politics as a dispute of programmes, principles and priorities, as an open and honest dialogue. We were all willing, despite the differences, to build an agreement to take Bulgaria along the path of progress and success. So today we take our responsibility. God be with us and for the good of Bulgaria! [[Crossed. Applause by GERB.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to the Forty-third National Assembly the following draft structure and staff of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Structure: - The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria consists of Prime Minister, four Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers. - The ministers run separate ministries. The ministers are: - Ministry of Finance; - Ministry of Interior; - Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; - Ministry of Defence; - Ministry of Foreign Affairs; - Ministry of Justice; - Ministry of Education and Science; - Ministry of Health; - Ministry of Culture; - Ministry of Environment and Water; - Ministry of Agriculture and Food; - Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Ministry of Economy; - Ministry of Energy; - Ministry of Tourism; - Department of Youth and Sports. They are converted: Ministry of Regional Development in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; Ministry of Economy and Energy is divided into the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Energy; a new Ministry of Tourism is established as promised to the industry and the Ministry of Investment Design is closed. I propose to be elected as members of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria the following ladies and gentlemen: - Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova for Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration; - Meglena Stilyanova Kuneva for Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues; - Tomislav Peykov Donchev for Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy; - Ivaylo Georgiev Kalfin for Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy; - Vladislav Ivanov Goranov for Minister of Finance; - Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov for Minister of the Interior; - Lilyana Pavlova Nikolova for Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; - Nikolay Nankov Nanchev for Minister of Defence; - Daniel Pavlov Mitov for Minister of Foreign Affairs; - Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov for Minister of Justice; -Professor. Todor Alexandrov Tanev for Minister of Education and Science; - Petar Stefanov Moskov for Minister of Health; - Browsy Letif Rashidov for Minister of Culture; - Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva for Minister of Environment and Water; - Desislava Zhekova Taneva for Minister of Agriculture and Food; - Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski for Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Bozhidar Tsetz Lukarski for Minister of Economy; - Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova for Minister of Energy; - Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova for Minister of Tourism; - Krasen Kirilov Kralev for Minister of Youth and Sports. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. My fellow Members, I propose to put to the vote my proposal for admission to the plenary of those nominated as members of the Council of Ministers who are not MPs. Please vote on their admission to plenary. Vote 218 MPs: 216 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, Quaestors, invite the candidates for ministers to plenary. Please invite the guests to take their seats in the hall. There's still time until the oath. [[Radio.]] As parliamentary practice is put in place, there is a joint debate on the three draft decisions, respectively on the three points that are in our programme for today. I would like to recall what is the distribution of time between the different parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group of GERB has 30 minutes; the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria The debates are open. Mr. Chukolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! We propose today that there should be three debates, because we have something to say at each individual point, at each separate vote, first of all, for the election of a prime minister, then for the structure of the cabinet, then for the composition of the cabinet itself. Let us make three debates so that the Bulgarian viewers can be clear and that all of us can see, debate and finally be clear about what we are voting on today and not in a debate to vote on three extremely important points. This is our procedural proposal, Madam President. Please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Is there a counteroffer? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Chukolov's proposal on the three items on the agenda to hold separate debates. Voting mode. Vote 204 MPs: 55 against 138, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Debates are open. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups who wish to participate in them to submit an application. Mr. Mestan's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, distinguished high guests at this meeting! I think that the debates on the election of a Prime Minister, of the structure and composition of the Council of Ministers, as the order of the speeches cannot follow, for example, a solemn meeting on the opening of one or another edition of the National Assembly. These are debates in which, first of all, the governing concept of the parties that form the majority will choose the new Bulgarian cabinet, and only then should the opposition express its attitude towards the proposed act, but in a meaningful way. It is perfectly natural, it is normal to first hear the parties that will rule the country in the coming years and stand behind the cabinet, and then hear the humble opinion of us, the other parties that will obviously be opposition in the Forty-third National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. You are aware that we do not have a specific, signed procedure in the vote of Prime Minister, structure and members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u10	We can't oblige anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u11	I accept your procedure as a proposal in this way and order for the debate to take place. I invite representatives of the parliamentary groups to address the proposed candidate for Prime Minister, structure and members of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u12	Dear Mr. President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Mr. Prime Minister of the Office! Of course, today is an important day for Bulgaria, because when the structure and staff for the Council of Ministers are presented, this always gives huge expectations for Bulgarian voters and Bulgarian citizens. But today, more than ever, I can say that in parliamentary practice in the last 22-23 years, for the first time, there has been an extremely high responsibility by all parliamentary parties. There was extreme transparency in the talks that were held here in the Bulgarian Parliament in order to reach today's proposal for structure and personal composition of the Council of Ministers by the candidate for Prime Minister, broadcast by the Parliamentary Group of GERB, Mr. Boyko Metodiev Borisov. What we have done in these debates is actually to see what the differences are, but to look for what could unite us and guarantee a future pro-European government that will give this stability that Bulgaria needs today. That is why, on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, we will support the government proposed in structure and composition by the candidate for Prime Minister and Chairman of the Political Party GERB Boyko Borisov. I believe that each of the parliamentary parties, which will support the future government, will also be able to present its arguments on the results achieved in the talks that have been conducted by the negotiating teams in the last three weeks. But here I would especially like to address the Bulgarian opposition today's session and the parliamentary day will be a model for partnership and an opportunity to hear all the different opinions, even the Bulgarian opposition. I believe that when each and every one of us goes back a year and a half and sees that in 434 days of cabinet management, Plamen Oresharski and 93 days, in which there was a service office, we know that we need to catch up. What is really clear for everyone is that the only possible path for Bulgaria is the European one, which is not shared perhaps only by a parliamentary represented party, but I am convinced that everyone else, confessing such values, will always be able to find dialogue and the political consensus that is needed in order to have this stable government that we have today and which we want to have today. Ladies and gentlemen, I can clearly state that from the GERB Parliamentary Group we will be dialogueal, we will be very justified in our positions and policies which the Bulgarian government must make and, of course, the legislation that must be adopted in the Bulgarian Parliament. Let us forget the period in which the opposition and all that has been presented as arguments, without absolutely no evidence, in the political speaking of this parliamentary tribune in the Forty-second National Assembly, a page for Bulgarian politics to be forgotten. Let each one make his choice and reconsider, of course, the behavior of all of us who were part of the Forty-second National Assembly, because more than ever Bulgaria needs stability and stable governance. Let this diversity of parties that will support the government and the composition of the Council of Ministers, which will be led by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, receive parliamentary support on a principle basis, not on the backstage and not on irresponsibility. We want to follow the principles of the European path. We want to be together and, despite the differences, to find this consensus, which will be useful for Bulgaria. I strongly state that the parliamentary group of GERB will support the draft and structure of the Council of Ministers and will vote for the Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Thank you. I wish success to the future Bulgarian government! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Mr. Mikov's statement request.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u14	If there's no demand from the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u15	Before that, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u16	Dear Mr. President, Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable guests at today's meeting, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In the past 10 days, the Forty-third Parliament has been able to perform one of its main tasks very quickly, and it is to become an open and public field of public compromise and the center of real power in the Bulgarian Republic. Today is the result of the compromise and behind our backs its weight. For compromises, we will all pay a serious political price. From our success to form a stable majority and to broadcast a healthy government, however, every Bulgarian will benefit. This is the fair political decision "what the parties are losing from, and the citizens are gaining. We of the Reformation bloc, as promised here on the first day, have made every compromise to reach this point. Personally, in a few minutes, I will break a direct election promise to the voters. We know that these compromises will cost us dearly, but we also know how much it would cost every Bulgarian the failure to form a government or to form a government without a stable majority behind it. Today we will vote not towards our political interest, understood in a narrow sense, but towards the needs and interests of Bulgarian citizens. And the successful vote of the National Assembly today will bring real benefit and will be a real victory for anyone who believes in a reasonable gradual political change. It will give a chance for reforms in all areas where the change has been stopped and stalled for more than decades. In health, in education, in justice, in administration Bulgaria will have reforming ministers and teams. We in the Reformation bloc have fought not for resource ministries, and here I want to say that this word repels me in itself and the fact that we are using it is very worrying. It is about the responsibility of the ministries, which bear a fundamental burden on the daily life of Bulgarian citizens. The successful vote today will give the most important start to the reform of the judiciary and a way to establish equal fair rules for all Bulgarian citizens. This is the compromise we said we would not do, and we did not do in the mandate of this National Assembly for a moment. The successful vote today will strengthen the good trends in the Bulgarian foreign and defence policy, will make Bulgaria stronger, more responsible and fuller member of the European Union and NATO. And don't say, please, neither to Bulgarian citizens nor to our European partners that this government will take Bulgaria away from Europe. The fact that Bulgaria will have its first coalition government in which BSP and DPS are not a factor does not take Bulgaria away from Europe. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] And it does not take the Bulgarian ethnic Turks and Muslims away from the exercise of political power. Our fellow citizens with another ethnicity and another faith will be integrated into power more because they will be free of monopoly and mediators. And we from the Reformation Block will be a guarantor of both this participation and the lack of monopoly and mediators. Both the change in justice and the political change certainly does not take Bulgaria away from Europe but, on the contrary, brings the daily life of every Bulgarian citizen to the everyday life of the average European. Our promise to remove DPS and BSP from the executive power and ensure a stable majority and a government without the former rulers is anything but anti-political. It is a prerequisite for implementing reforms in justice, security and administration. Politics over opposition we will not lead. Here in Parliament we will preserve the spirit of moderation, of compromise, of seeking maximum agreement and maximum majority for any good solution. We will seek every vote, regardless of the parliamentary group, for any decision we believe is in the interest of the Bulgarian citizens. But we will not give in, repeat it, not an inch and not a moment from the reform of justice and the interruption of illegal relations between economic, political, judicial and media power that have tangled the Bulgarian society. We will not retreat because Europe ends where the rule of law ends. The state ends where the mob's power begins. Dear colleagues, yesterday thanks to the long-standing inactivity of the Bulgarian institutions, I will say by name "BNB," DANS, Ministry of Interior, NRA, the Financial Supervision Commission of the fourth Bulgarian bank yesterday went bankrupt and destroyed the savings of the thousands of economic prospects of tens of thousands of Bulgarians. With this inactivity of the institutions, at this risk we cannot compromise. And I'm not saying that to the former government. They are currently in opposition at the will of the Bulgarian voters. I'm telling this to us future rulers because yesterday and today I've seen enough red and smug faces among us. Because apparently, many have forgotten the words of humility just ten days ago. Please don't forget them! Remember them! Our power may be very short and may not be for the good of the Bulgarians, if it is for our privileges and not for the changes that interest the Bulgarians. And if I return to the beginning of my speech, today more than ever, real power is in Parliament. Each MP will receive the government's Programme Declaration from both the majority and the opposition, so that we can monitor the implementation of its programming intentions every day. I believe that today we will give power to the second cabinet Borisov. I will vote for him and the MPs of the Reformation bloc will vote for him. I would even thank Mr. Borisov for the changed style of behavior of GERB, which we have seen in recent weeks. I hope that he will remain changed after today, because here in the National Assembly will exercise control over whether the style has really changed. Mr. Borisov, ladies and gentlemen, candidates for ministers in the future government! God with you in the hard times ahead. And my musical greeting will be later today with a song by Sting. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? There aren't any. Any other Members of the National Assembly wishing to take part in the deliberations? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u18	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable guests at the solemn meeting! With this speech, I would like to declare that the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposed cabinet composition in the name of the implementation of the Programme Declaration, which has been agreed and prepared for one-month meetings and joint efforts. As we declared at the very beginning of this one-month period, for the Patriotic Front, it is of paramount importance to draw up a programme document in which to set priorities for the rescue of Bulgaria from the severe crisis in which it is located. We wanted around this programme document to bring together a maximum number of political forces, which would have high national responsibility, to give up their party selfishness, to compromise in order to achieve a common document that would be fundamental to the government's work, only for the sake of Bulgaria's interests. For this reason, in recent negotiations, we have tried to look for common and ignore what separates us. This was the message of the Patriotic Front not only to the four parties that unite in their support of the government, but also to the other colleagues. This message remains with us. We want to look for common ways to solve problems, not to look for any way to extract narrow political dividends from our opposition or any other behavior, because Bulgaria's interests are above everything else. Regardless of what political platform, from what political pole we entered the National Assembly, we were actually chosen by our constituents for a single thing, with a single task to ease the lives of our compatriots. Everything else is meaningless and insignificant. I am pleased that with parties with which we have been in acute conflict, with parties with which we have been in serious clashes for years, we have managed to find common ideals, common goals and develop a common platform. I am pleased that the main priorities of the Patriot Front Programme have entered and laid the basis for the programme document on which the government will work. If you will allow me to remind very briefly that one of the most important tasks that our constituents have put before us was the termination of the participation in the power of the anti-Bulgarian party DPS. For the first time in this twenty-year period, there are very serious reasons and reasons to be sure that this process will now end the rape of power by the DPS. [[Applause from PF.]] I am pleased that the programme declaration sets priorities for foreign policy, domestic policy and any other area for the sake of the country's interests alone. I can't help but be pleased that we have united around the urgent change of the Election Law, as well as holding a referendum on mandatory voting at the same time as the local elections, as this will radically change the picture in the Bulgarian National Assembly and will give a real picture of political participation, political preferences of the Bulgarian people. I am pleased that we have also managed to unite around the protection of our border with the Republic of Turkey from the ever-growing flows of illegal immigration through the construction of protective facilities. I am pleased that we have united around the limitation of birth rates, which has already been turned into a business by certain ethnicities, by encouraging the trident model. [[BSP LB.]] I am pleased that all major energy projects, which in fact for the most part represent large energy balloons, which mislead public opinion, will only be realized when there is direct economic benefit from this for our country Bulgaria. I am pleased that we agreed to limit the logging of the Bulgarian forest and limit exports to the implementation of a moratorium, if necessary. I am pleased that we united around the construction of a single Bulgarian nation, despite the existence of different ethnicities in the Bulgarian state. I am also pleased that we are united around our desire to limit domestic crime by applying appropriate organisational and technical measures. I am pleased that the pension reform will be in line with the specific demographic circumstances in our country. In conclusion, I wish to wish the new government good luck! I would like to address Mr. Borisov: Mr. Borisov, if this time the management with GERB's mandate fails, there will be no third time. In this regard, I would like to ask you and your ministers, after taking up their duties, to make extremely serious efforts to make meaningful, responsible work in their offices, in their portfolios; to reduce the demonstration cutting of ribbons, to travel around the country for the purpose of things, as well as television studios. [[Radio in DPS.]] It's more important to work in the offices, not the show country. [[Radio.]] May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u19	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u20	You have our support, but I would like you to gain our trust. When we vote shortly, we not only support all of you, but actually we do it because we support a perspective for Bulgaria, an opportunity for Bulgaria. We do it in the name of Bulgaria, by placing the most valuable, which we have built ourselves................................................................................................ Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u21	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Other representatives of parliamentary groups? Professor Borisov on behalf of the ABB group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u22	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. President, Your Holiness and the honourable leaders of the other religions in Bulgaria, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers of the caretaker government, your excellences, fellow Members and guests! The government that we will be choosing today is the result of a new approach in the relations between the parliamentary parties, I would say, unknown for more than 20 years between the political forces to which the people had entrusted the country's governance. I do not even need to return to the extremely intense and hostile political opposition since the early 1990s. It is enough to remember only the situation in the National Assembly during the first half of this year. What was she like? Extreme political intolerance, meaningless opposition to the most sensible proposals, because they belong to each other. A complete absence of constructivism, non-pardon attitude towards the opponent, sarcasm, insulting expressions, slang phrases, behavior and vocabulary fund, characteristic of the street and far from the essence of parliamentary spirit and parliamentaryism. It is hardly necessary to list more, because even what has been said so far largely characterizes the working atmosphere in the previous Parliament, created not by another, but by the actions of the political forces themselves in the National Assembly. The result is known to all. Ladies and gentlemen, the main thing, the essence, the core of the work of the previous Parliament, was backstage. However, in the previous Parliament, the backstage reached its peak, it became an emancipation of the system of decision-making actions, of the morality of the political forces. When I say that today we are choosing a government as a result of a new approach, I mean that his choice has come first and foremost through dialogue between parliamentary parties, I repeat, dialogue, honourable Members, based on three essential factors. First, respect and tolerance to each other's positions and ideas. Secondly, the openness and transparency of the negotiations under way. Thirdly, patience in seeking a reasonable compromise in favor of the state and its people, not in the battle for the close party or personal interest. Therefore, allow me, on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, to congratulate and thank all the political forces in parliament who have taken part in this new approach of political dialogue and understanding, whether they support the government in one form or another or remain in opposition. It would be correct to point out that the main role in realising this new approach of political dialogue and seeking understanding was the mandate carrier. We believe that the political party GERB within the possible and in these complex realities has successfully dealt with this unattractive and difficult task. Ladies and gentlemen, you will probably accept as a measure of impromptuness on our part what I will say, but as early as the creation of the Civil Movement ABB in January this year we have formulated the main goal of the ABB as: reaching a political agreement on the strategic priorities of the state based on dialogue between the main political forces. We don't claim copyright. It is quite possible that every political force alone and in its own way has come to the conclusion that this is the only sensible approach to ensuring the prosperity of the state and the nation. The actions of the political forces in the last month have proved it in practice. The result is there.. we have a draft for the election of a new government; there is a parliamentary majority on the key priorities and problems in the development of the Republic of Bulgaria. We hope that this will be the case by the end of this Parliament's term of office. To this end, however, it is necessary that this new approach of dialogue and the search for understanding, which I have spoken about, continue at another level and in other structures of the government, parliamentary committees, territorial structures and so on. Our conviction and confidence are that the composition and election of the new government of the Republic of Bulgaria is more than necessary. Any other option such as new elections, for example, or any other option, would have a catastrophic destructive result. It is not so important that the disaster will overtake some political forces, what is important and scary is that the destruction will fall on the state with its weak economic and financial resources, and even worse is that it will fall with all its weight on the Bulgarian people the poorest of all the peoples of the European Union. Forty-eight percent of the population living on and below the poverty line and which would certainly increase. That's what's scary. At this point, we were able to prevent this danger. We also hope to achieve positive results in the future. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the formation and election of the new government in coalitions and with the support of parties from the right-wing sector of political space, but also with the support of a left-wing party in the face of the ABB, has proved in practice that the political culture in Bulgaria is already in a new, higher stage of its development. A phase in which the uncompromising opposition between the left and the right in all its varieties, led to the destructive division of the nation, political forces began to seek not only the lines of demise, but also the contact points of understanding and cooperation, but without losing their idea base and political identity. A typical example of this is the support of the ABB Programme Declaration, in which, with the exception of two issues, all other essential and principled performances from the ABB election platform found their reflection, while the ABB reserves the right to act according to its political platform and ideas on all issues on which no agreement has been reached. This is the essence of the government's support in preserving the party's left identity. ABB believes that this is the way in which Bulgarian policy really approaches the practice and example, which gives us the structuring of the European Commission, the drawing up of the government of Germany, and at least another third of the governments of the countries in the European Union. We wish success in the election of the new government! Good luck! Thank you. [[Applause to the right and center.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u23	Thank you, Professor. Borisov. - What's the line? Mr. Chukolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I would like to inform all of you and you, Madam President, especially that there are hundreds of protesters around the National Assembly at the moment against the formation of this unprincipled coalition. [[Laughter and lines on the right.]] Don't laugh! This is very serious. Don't laugh! I also want you to know that the pressure has gotten serious. Therefore, Madam President, all the more so that the Prime Minister-designate went to smoke his cigar and drink his coffee, let him be here in the Chamber and hear what the parties in opposition have to say to him. But to avoid this tension outside to come Mr. Borisov here, in the hall to have time to smoke his cigar, and you, Madam President, to accept a delegation of these protesting people, because they have something to tell you, on behalf of the party My appeal to you, Madam President, is to accept a delegation from the protesters outside against this immoral coalition. [[Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Are any of the other parliamentary groups willing? Mr. Mikov, you have the floor. [[Reply from the MP Desislav Chukolov away from the microphones.]] I gave Mr. Mikov my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Your Holiness, Mr. Prime Minister and Ministers, Your Excellencies, Dear Guests! BSP left Bulgaria will not support the structure of the government, because with the ninety-first cabinet in the government of Bulgaria there is an increase in the portfolios, obviously because of the broad format of the quadruple coalition, which 26 political formations enter. We will also vote against the election of a right-wing central government. We will vote with clear awareness that, despite attempts to find dialogue here in Parliament, it is not enough to have dialogue. The dialogue must move to many places, and we have heard from some of the leaders of the parties supporting the government that their task was to remove BSP and DPS from the executive power. Ladies and gentlemen, the vicious round of the 25 years of pulling and putting will obviously continue this was a statement from here. Mr. Kanev, I have a longer political memory and this is not the first case in which neither BSP nor DPS are out of power. The declaration of such objectives, if they are truly supported by both the largest group and the candidate for prime minister, will not solve the problems that stand today in our divided society, because it is not only divided politically. First of all, it is divided socio-economically. Because it is good, and we support Euro-Atlantic values, but can we support Euro-Atlantic poverty in Bulgaria? [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Because it was mentioned that 20% of Bulgarian citizens live in poverty and about 50% at risk of poverty. Because without changing taxation, for fairer taxation, we will hardly get close to Europe where most countries have progressive taxation. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Yes, we have our sin in this regard, but in the previous term we have taken the first step. And now we understand that the Revenue Agency interprets the law on returning the non-taxable minimum in its own way. I doubt that the government will be able to provide such pressure on the administration to make citizens feel a fairer society. Ladies and gentlemen! We didn't hear anything about how you see social inequalities because they give rise to social conflicts. How do we see social inequalities based on ethnicity and illiterateness? Because these are the major threats to Bulgaria and they can hardly be solved with right-wing policy because the implementation of labour law in Bulgaria today is one of the major problems. And it is not decided by our understanding, whether in the ruling coalition or the ruling coalition with the opposition, because the Bulgarian citizens in these elections, over half of them, did not want to participate in this agreement, and today they stand and watch how we politicians will give them the basis for next elections, regardless of when they are, to go to the polls. Ladies and gentlemen! The Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria will continue in this Parliament to support the social measures and actions taken by the government. We will insist on Christmas and Easter allowances for pensioners, not as curtsy or courtship, but as an understanding that this social category is in the column below the poverty line. We're going to insist on raising child benefits. Here I will only open a clamp: it is highly unacceptable for us to understand that after the third child there will be no social benefits. I think that the parties in the ruling coalition should distinguish themselves on some issues that put them in a severe conflict not only with European and Atlantic values, but in general with humanism and world standards of attitude towards people, towards society. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will insist that the funds for young families to raise a child be part of the state budget, not on a residual basis, because without investment in social capital, the talk of demographic development, of overcoming the demographic crisis, is empty talk. We will insist on continuing the public investment programme for the regions because regional disproportions and development are one of the serious problems of opposition in the Bulgarian society and without a policy aimed at allowing the right government to find solutions in this direction, they will not be able to overcome these differences because below the poverty line in Vidin live 50%, with an average of 20% for the country. There are other such regions, and if we do not look seriously, focused and with the relevant measures and decisions, our consent does not matter to the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will demand regulation of the monopolies, which do not give perspective to the Bulgarian producer and entrepreneur. And if, in the previous meeting, we adopted a law that the President returned, I believe that in this National Assembly we should give the real evidence of support to the Bulgarian producer. We will continue to insist on protecting acquired social rights because, when poverty is great, when the spread is great, when opposition is extreme, the withdrawal of social rights in the name of fiscal stability is explosive. You saw the streets of Belgium yesterday a far richer country. And let you, who will vote today and support this government, know that it is not important that the agreement between you is not important, even if it is the agreement with the opposition on some issues that have the label of the European Euro-Atlantic or any other national responsibility, it is important how citizens appreciate our work and how they perceive this policy that you will have the responsibility to conduct. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will expect this government to achieve at least that 1.8% growth in the economy, which had it in the previous six months, in the context of economic instability; to uncover these 40,000 jobs [[GERB noise and lines]] for the same period in the context of that political instability, because now there is strong support and political stability [[Replications by MPs Delyan Dobrev and Vezdi Rashidov]] ; to reach that growth in investments of nearly 5%, which was achieved in terms of political instability, and we will support you in all the decisions that drive the country in this direction. But from one thing we will not give in to the fiscal stability that we will support cannot be an imperative in the behaviour of even the right government, because the exhaustion of the neoliberal model poses other challenges...... and European and national challenges, which we on the left have our answer to. And our answer in this Parliament will be: constructive, constructive and sharp, genuine leftist opposition! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u28	Madam President, I have made a procedure by which I have asked you to give a recess in which you will accept a delegation from the protesters outside. Now we have information that another bus with policemen and gendarmes is with the protesters. There is information that there are already beaten protesters. [[Voices: "E-e-e!" by GERB.]] I'm asking you to perform art. 60, para. 2 of this is the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, where it is imperative that you give rest. My request is that during this break you meet with the protesters outside. Do as you're told.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u29	Mr. Chukolov, really, according to art. 60, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at the request of a representative of a parliamentary group, the chairman of the meeting shall give one, no less than 15 minutes and no more than 30 minutes. Such an application has been made by you, but the nature of the debates today on the points that we are discussing is somewhat different. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] I am worried that if I give a break, the level of equality between the parliamentary groups will be violated, because it has not been announced in advance in what order the positions of the parliamentary groups will be declared. [[(Speaks ……]] You are right that, since there is no explicit other norm, upon a timely request by a Member of the National Assembly, by a parliamentary group, the Chair of the sitting is obliged to rest. I'm calling a 15-minute recess at 10:35. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u30	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats, the meeting continues. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the debate? Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u31	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Assembly, Your Excellencies, Your Holinesss, Heads of Faith in the Republic of Bulgaria, Dear Guests! The Bulgarian society and partners of Bulgaria in the European Union and NATO today cannot be misled. In the forty-third Bulgarian Parliament will be voted not the cabinet of the two-party coalition minority of GERB and the Reformist bloc, not even the three-party coalition government of the minority GERB, Reformist Bloc and ABB, but the four-party government of the parliamentary majority with the direct formalized with signature participation of the national populist formation Patriot Front. [[Applause and screams from SG on the Patriotic Front: "Bravo, bravo! "]] This majority is not a cause for applause and loud voices because it is not a product of the political compromise, because often the compromise is necessary and therefore constructive, it is a product of a crude, unprincipled agreement that does not build, but breaks down the European legitimacy of Bulgaria. Perhaps the most important message from today in terms of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is: after 25 years today's act of Parliament will be the first to revise Bulgaria's civilization choice to develop as a modern Euro-Atlantic state. This will be held responsible not only for moral, political, but also for historical responsibility. Mr. President, the responsibility will be not only for the direct participants in this coalition, but also for their patrons. Nowhere in Europe do modern, normal right and left alliance with national populism, with xenophobia. Bulgaria returned to the bosom of the pre-democratism. The masks were removed, the political persons stripped, first of the right-wing political entity, who had embezzled the right to a moral-political censor with a claim to be the bearer of absolute truth, to present a kind of moral right-right absoluteism. I say this responsibly on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and no political moves, such as the signing of the agreement on common governance by the candidate for Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and the leaders of the Patriotic Front and the ABB cannot cover this thesis separately, nor can they challenge it. Because the fact is a fact and it is undeniable. Bulgaria will be managed for the first time with the participation of a national populist xenophobic party.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u32	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u33	Bravo, bravo! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u34	Why did you resort to this strange ritual anyway? It's very simple. The mandater knows that the coalition is vicious. It contradicts the high political and humane position of Joseph Dol. But what is the value of such positions, were they of the President of the EPP before the Bulgarian political passions the passion for power at all costs? If you want to join forces with the devil, as has been said recently. But unfortunately not for the sake of national interest. The Bulgarian national interest is linked inextricably to Europe and NATO. We do not have the opportunity to define another national interest. The second reason why Mr. Boyko Borisov took the responsibility that he only signed with the Patriotic Front and with the ABB is the impossible attempt to preserve the political integrity of the Reformation bloc, which otherwise owes answers to many questions. I don't know if the media will ask them because I wouldn't want her to be warned again not to start jumping her fight. But we're going to ask them because this is the role of an opposition. After 2005, President Georgi Parvanov, in our opinion, was absolutely unfounded and undeservedly accused by the right-wings of being the architect of the three BSP-NDSV-DSS coalition. We have always answered that the architect of the triple coalition is the electoral and President Parvanov is not responsible here. However, for years you have been building a political identity with arguments right against President Parvanov, precisely because of his role as an architect. Undeserved, but you did it! Now, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, how do you feel in your arms with him and with his ABB? It's an important question!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u35	Very good.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u36	Thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u37	Bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u38	Apropo, two of the ministers, and the deputy prime ministers proposed by Mr. Borisov, were ministers of the triple coalition. I recall that the mandate holder of the Triple Coalition was us. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms! The movement for rights and freedoms was the mandate holder of the triple coalition. Mrs. Kuneva, Mr. Kalfin, you don't have to worry. In itself, this fact is not disgraceful at all. In addition, by our assessment of a mandate carrier you have done well and perhaps you will be useful in this office without necessarily incriminating you in renegadeness. [[Applause from DPS.]] I will save, of course, the retrospect of extremely heavy qualifications by the previous "blues" - now reformers, at the address of Mr. Boyko Borisov. I do not deny anyone's right to develop in the direction of a higher political culture. And at all, ladies and gentlemen, today's remarks and analysis of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are not in relation to the coalition formula. She's set by the vote. This is the way it will be from now on - Bulgaria will be governed by coalitions, it is not in coalition, but in the content, in the unprincipledness of this particular coalition that you are offering us. Because national responsibility was supposed to form a cabinet. This responsibility lay on Mr. Boyko Borisov's shoulders and he had to find the solution of this complex case in the most colorful Parliament in democratic history. Just in view of the vote, the cabinet could not not be GERB, it could not be another Prime Minister, except Mr. Boyko Borisov himself. But we continue to argue, and this is our firm position: not necessarily this coalition. You had another choice, other European civilization solutions. I do not need to remind you of examples from the history of Europe itself, how in 2002 the Socialists supported the candidate of the right of the second round for President of France. There are situations in which an alliance between diverse political forces is imposed. And not here is the problem again of this coalition. I suppose there's some way to explain even the alliance with the ABB. However, I continue to argue: the suggestion that the architect of this coalition is also the electoral one is incorrect. The coalition you're proposing wasn't set by the voter. It is your decision and your responsibility, because in the vote of the electoral, there is no imperative that the first, fourth, fifth and eighth political forces be united. The problem is far from the heterogeneous nature of the political forces. I have already said that it was inevitable again because of the vote. The problem of this coalition is that it represents an alliance between democratic values such as GERB, the Reformation bloc and the ABB claim to represent, and the anti-democratic, anti-European, anti-NATO and anti-systemic performance by the Patriotic Front. We should have the awareness that we are faced with not ideological but a value fault, which, of course, will not be available only if we are not real democrats, if power thirst has not shifted national interest. I'd like to calm you down. When I talk about other options, I don't mean DPS as a possible participant. We were part of the previous government and it seems to us to be in opposition now. I mean, you could have heard Mr. Doll and not resorted to the Patriotic Front. But you didn't hear it. Were you coerced?[Grunts] It is an interesting question by whom, this is a question to which time will give its definite answer. [[sighs]] But we accepted with deep satisfaction the message to the Political Party GERB and to Mr. Joseph Dol's Reformation Block not to allow any form of commitment to the Patriotic Front, whose ideas and political agenda were defined by him and by Mr. Borisov as unacceptable. We were anxious to see how immediately after the departure of Mr. Dol from the country attempts for convergence in a formula for common governance between GERB, reformers and Patriot front continued and even representatives of the Patriotic Front unharmedly said that the aim of the renewed meetings and the possible partnership was the isolation of the liberal party DPS along the path of ethno-religious intolerance and hatred. I, today with all the responsibility this party carries, with an equal tone, without emotion, say that creating and maintaining faults through opposition to ethnicities and confessions is practically blowing up civil society and undermining the rule of law by replacing integration policy with discrimination and segregation policy. Such policies are particularly risky in the Balkans, especially in the context of the civilisational faults facing the world. We see that today the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the target. That's why you needed this fourth player in the management, because, as your coalition partners are officially expressing, the DPS must be necessarily scraped out. [[Laughter, applause, excitement from the bottom of the room.]] More praises of contentment in the forty-third parliament of European Bulgaria how sad! Scraped not only by the power, but notice the public policy life. The alliance with the Patriotic Front makes you accomplices to this frank xenophobia. We don't need to be taken out of power. We had the political courage to give it up ourselves in the name of political stability. You can't scrape us out of public policy life because we're an integral part of it. Such spells are stylistics from past times, or is that perhaps what lies ahead of us?! Here's what I meant when I warned about the revision of Bulgaria's civilization choice and the return to the bosom of pre-democraticism. It's not an easy message, but it's not a management program, it's emotion, it's passion. The DPS is the necessary universal culprit who will connect ideological and value incompatible political forces in one or the same way. With this universal culprit not since yesterday justified political failures to get to something that sounds like a maxim: the guy hugs the DPS, dies. I do not know who the vampires of Bulgarian politics are, but I will remind you that after BSP's last solo victory from the distant 1994, with a single majority of 125 mandates, the BSP failed. Jean Videnov did not rule with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we were his opposition. In the next Parliament the centenary entered with forty and a half times less mandate. Colleagues, and then was the DPS guilty, or did some other pharaohs rob 13 banks and lead to collapse of the Bulgarian economy and state?! I am not sure that there is no political representation in today's Parliament, but this aspect of the backroom is hardly of interest to you, and it may be to your liking. Even more unbearable is the example of the management of ODS, with Ivan Kostov. In 1997 he won the election with a huge majority of 137 mandates! After four years of independent government, at which the DPS was not only opposition, but was designated for the curse of Bulgaria, the same Kostov will enter the 39th National Assembly with only 51 MPs! I mean, he loses almost three times, and then after management, which I wouldn't call unsuccessful! In Bulgaria, power wears out even after successful management and this is objective for granted, I would say a pattern that cannot be attributed to the DPS. Don't overestimate us. The forty-third parliament is a test, and I will finish with that. A heavy conversation between the citizens and the parties for the 25 years and in this debate caused by the vote on October 5th the most vocal and speechful are rhetors, leaders and statesmen with biographies, whose publicity is from the pre-democratic era of Bulgaria. This is important, unfortunately, and explains the difference in trying to form a cabinet. The highest register of analysts is dedicated to the DPS. That is, the doctrine of the day is not the future government of Bulgaria, but the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. In other words, the interparty egoism and the ideological complex each stumbles in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and fears the DPS. Following the trail of the election campaign and the illusions lost on October 5th, it was found that the political coordinate system in Bulgaria is debalanced, not to say In fact, it's time for revenge for political engineering prototypes, like where the lab is located. And perhaps it is useful for our democracy the irony of the transition that exposes the feat of personalities and duality to reside elitistly on both sides on November 10, 1989. [[Applause from DPS.]] I'm done. All I have to say is that you asked for the DPS to be an opposition. That's understandable. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Andonov.]] But you asked us to be opposition to politics. Today this sounds beautiful, emotionally, like a kind of feast to feed your constituents. But from now on, for the modern management of Bulgaria, the isolation of DPS is a problem. I finished my previous speech with a call in the first person to give us enlightenment. I'll do it now, only in the second person, God bless you with enlightenment! We are here with these 38 MPs and we will defend the rights and freedoms because we put them above the political differences they are universal. We'd understand protests against one office or another! We would understand even protest against one minister or another for his policy! But we wouldn't understand, and we're protesting a protest against a minister just because his name is Eyebrows! That's the DPS, that's the greatness of this party! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u39	- What's the line? Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u40	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I did not intend to take the floor today, but I was provoked by the statement of the honourable Mr. Mestan! I will be executed in the course of your speech at least in its first part, because the second part was...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u41	It's corny!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u42	Excuse me? Exact?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u43	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u44	I understand, we'll have to change it, along with Mr. Mestan. [[Reply from the National Representative Aliosman Imamov.]] Do you have anything in mind, or? Thank you. I'm going to try to be exclusive on the first part of Mr. Mestan's speech, because the second part was some kind of memoirism. First of all, as to whom he owes answers about his behaviour, the Reformation bloc owes them to its voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u45	How many voters do you have?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u46	Mr. Mestan, you're not from my memory. Secondly, you are talking about Euro-Atlantism and that support for this government is not Euro-Atlantic. This is probably what you say with the clear memory that in the previous parliament you ruled with the golden finger of perhaps the most loose, the most loose in terms of the inability to be part of any civilisational choice, the party of Ataka, which, apart from being anti-Euro-Atlantic, was also the most proevrasian, of cat food at the Russian Embassy. [[Applause from GERB and RB]] [[Laughter at GERB and RB]] And you claim that the new majority can be accused of lack of Euro-Atlanticism on the basis of this! I'm sorry, but I don't understand it. Thirdly, I understand from everything you say that the problem is not that the majority is such, such and such, the problem is that somehow you are neither a formal nor a possible theoretical part of this majority. Let me explain. The point of having a clear majority, united around a clear programme of seconds, Madam President, is to direct the spotlight on the transparency of the way of decision making, because the floating majorities are actually the majorities of the shadows, and the shadows give birth to monsters. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Right, Mr. Peevsky? Before the last, if we were to be part of the high narrative, Mr. Dol is French, his name is pronounced Joseph, the other would be a violation of the human rights of the French. And yes, the DPS is the curse of Bulgaria, not because it combines somehow spectacularly, but because it holds an ethnicity in literally feudal conditions so that it can rule over it. [[Applause from GERB and RB. DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u47	Mr. Moskov, please focus on finishing. Second line? Here you go, Dr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u48	Dear colleagues! First, to you by the DPS you have betrayed your constituents. You betrayed your constituents when you agreed upon the commission of your BSP creators to be together in the management and to carry out their orders. You quickly forgot when your constituents were beaten when the names were changed and in the fastest way associated with the comrades on the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u49	You're with Ataka and the patriots! You're with ABB with Parvanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u50	Do not rush to draw your conclusions, because the demagogy we hear here constantly from the DPS and BSP is clear first 45 years, then another 25 years. Excuse me very much, but the richer part of this National Assembly stands here, in this left part of me and your right. [[Applause from RB.]] You have one problem. The problem is you won't be able to participate this time in power. It's a horror. [[Reply from DPS.]] It's not a problem, of course. You cashed what you had to cash. [[Reply from DPS.]] Probably, but I'm 100% smarter than you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u51	Please, no grades. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u52	One more thing, the devil and vampires were you until now. It's you. Regarding Mrs. Kuneva, I am very sorry, but it is an understatement. She was the one who made the entry into the European Union with all her efforts. [[Sighs: "E-e-e-e!" to the left.]] On the occasion of that nonsense I hear from the Balkan Circus, who has again settled in the National Assembly,...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u53	Please stick to the good tone in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u54	...and we have to put up with one thing that really is the Balkan Circus, I have another proposal: the Quaestors can tear up tickets and we can fix the budget of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u55	Third line? No one wants a third line. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I am unable to answer the second speaker. His intellect is beyond my reach because he has declared himself very clever! [[Elevator bell dings]] [[Private applause, cheerful excitement.]] I suppose he could have been more precise, extraordinarily co-ordinated, for example, the expression: the Devil and the vampire were you. It's got to be said, "You were there." But perhaps this is your understanding of Bulgarian grammar. [[Noise and lines.]] As far as Mr. Moskov is concerned, he's been executed. So without masks, you stand much better, Mr. Moskov. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]] With your true nature, without the moral censor mask, you stand much better. It's hateful of you. It's real, it's real! And they say hatred and intelligence don't meet. I don't know how you're going to rule as a minister a sphere that shouldn't know hate but humanity. Thank you. [[(Radio.) Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u57	Are there statements from other MPs? Mr. Velizar Enchev wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u58	Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues, honourable representatives of the Bulgarian media! I will vote against the election of Mr. Boyko Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria because I am convinced that I express the feelings of the huge silent majority of Bulgarian citizens who do not want his return to power as Prime Minister. Have you forgotten that just 20 months ago Mr. Borisov resigned as prime minister after the bloody protest on the Eagle Bridge? How can we forget that after the unjustified increase in electricity prices, thousands of angry citizens in Sofia and Varna flooded the streets of these cities, rebelling against a government that served selected bank and energy oligarchs? In the last days of the government of GERB party sold state shares in the three ERPs, the three electricity distribution companies and forced licenses were given to open RES, selling electricity at godlessly high prices. Have you forgotten, honourable Members, that Mr. Borisov's rule was marked by police from his interior minister, unfortunately, unfortunately, already sentenced to first instance? And how can we forget that in the management of this prime minister for the first time since 1989, I say this as a spokesperson of the United Pension Unions, for the first time the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners were not indexed for three years, after which our fathers and mothers were called "bad human material"? Do we have the right to forget that, with the approval of Prime Minister Borisov, the Finance Minister of GERB Simeon Djankov reached for the reserve of the Health Insurance Fund, transferring BGN billion and four hundred million from the Casa to the fiscal reserve, which, I stress, the Constitutional Court found illegal? I stress: the Constitutional Court qualifies this act as illegal. [[(Comments from GERB: This is a lie! It's a lie!]] This should not be forgotten exactly today when we are giving a second term for the management of Mr. Borisov. You're right! I do not question the right of Party GERB to rule. On the contrary, the GERB Party has the right and must govern. She received the most votes in these parliamentary elections, but not with this prime minister. And, please, remember Mr. Borisov's personnel policy during those years when he was prime minister, how he chose his gas station ministers, how he appointed ladybugs with fake diplomas. Is your memory so short of these personnel decisions that, please, should not be repeated? By the way, when I say that they should not be repeated, do we not see today that some of the ministers offered, with all due respect to them as individuals, are classic ladybugs, without any serious experience in their portfolio? This, honourable Members, is not a personnel policy under European standards. It's a policy of Balkan standards. When I said "Balkani" "Please do not forget that in the management of Mr. Borisov, his foreign minister Mr. Nikolay Mladenov conducted a policy which in many cases contradicted the politics of France and Germany regarding the Islamist Prime Minister Recep Tayip Erdogan, regarding the policy of the Republic of Turkey, whose official doctrine is neo-Osmanism. Don't forget what foreign policy was with Mr. Nikolay Mladenov the Foreign Minister of Mr. Borisov. And I hope that I call on the new foreign minister, who will be elected shortly after Mr. Mitov, not to follow this Balkan policy, approved, sanctioned by the honourable Mr. Borisov, a policy that gave unreserved consent to Serbia's membership in the European Union without respecting the rights of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs, without taking account of their rights! A policy which, with regard to the Republic of Macedonia, was not correct. Thank God, in the last months of Mr. Borisov's management this policy has been corrected, for which I congratulate him! Gentlemen, until now I have talked about the professional qualities of Mr. Borisov, but I also want to say something about his ethical characteristics. You know that in every civilized, democratic state a prime minister cannot remain in his post after the affair Misho Beer, his light hand to Michael Mihov an affair in which Mr. Borisov overstepped the law by thwarting a customs check of his friend. [[Replying and shouting.]] After such evidence in every civilized country and in the European Union, as I said, such a person, such an official should be prosecuted by law. That's the norm. This is normal, but in Bulgaria the abnormal is the norm, and the normal, unfortunately, is the exception! Finally, but not least, is the biography of the Prime Minister who just heard from Mr. Tsvetanov a biography which is a testimony of this sad paradox in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, I say this with deep regret, decent, educated and decent people are sent to the periphery of public life and operationally interesting persons become ministers. Therefore, honourable Members, people are disgusted by politics and hate politicians. That is why three million Bulgarians did not vote and the others voted with disdain, choosing the lesser evil, choosing not the worthy, but those who, as I said, are the lesser evil. By wishing the ministers success in the new government in their very responsible work in a difficult financial and economic crisis and leaving loyal to my parliamentary group I will vote against Mr. Boyko Borisov's candidacy for prime minister and I am convinced that I am convinced if hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens had the opportunity to vote like me. Thank you. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u59	- What's the line? I won't. Are there any speeches? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u60	Because I'm new to politics, I always thought that what it says outside of the Assembly that the Unity makes the power is filled with some content. I've been finding out lately that's not true. In my personal capacity, I was hoping for a broad coalition between the right and the left. I don't know if you know, but on the Trauma March of the Bulgarian Army, which is written by the Unknown Warrior:..Bulgarian, for you they died!....... the text was written by Ivan Vazov, and the music was written by Ivan Minkov a hero of the Balkan War, with three Georgiev Cross, became a member of the Military Organization of the Bulgarian Communist Party, a participant in the attack in the church................................. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, we state that the GERB group as such has won the most votes in these elections, should form a government and prime minister under all the rules of democracy should be Mr. Boyko Borisov. The structure of the cabinet is good for the first time attention is paid to the demographic problem of the state administration. But at the same time, I would like to say that we will not support this staff of the cabinet, as there are indeed people in it who are deprived of experience, without expertise, without the opportunity to participate in the management of Bulgaria at such an important time for it when it is in such a crisis. I wish Mr. Borisov success and as they say: God be with him! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u61	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Volen Siderov, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u62	Your Holiness, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the press and guests! The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka will vote against Boyko Borisov's nomination for Prime Minister, against the composition of this cabinet and against this government as a government. Unlike others, previously spoke speakers, I can not separate the face Boyko Borisov from Party GERB. Someone said before me that, yes, the GERB Party had won the most votes, to govern, but Boyko Borisov is such and such. Those are the right things, by the way. [[Noise, lines and excitement.]] There is no way to separate Party GERB from Borisov. And when I say we're going to vote against, I have a very clear argument. In 2009 Mr. Borisov and Party GERB were given a chance. Then with much more parliamentary mandates, then with much more popular trust and with support of parliamentary groups in the previous Parliament Party GERB received the power and did not justify the trust of both 1 600,000 Bulgarians, voters and parliamentary groups, who gave their trust to the then government Borisov-1, and in 2013 it was overthrown by protests, with self-inflammation of people, with bloodshed. This cannot be overlooked and forgotten because, you see, some government had to form. The last few weeks, all we've heard is this riff: I need some government to form! No, we won't, we can't go to elections. Why, ladies and gentlemen, can't we go to elections?! I would like to tell you that as a participant and observer in the 1988 political process, a member of various associations, and then 1990, I attended a similar decision. This was December 1990 with then President Zhelyu Zhelev gathered all political forces. There was tension in the country, there were protests, there was a political crisis and someone had suggested to Mr. Zhelev that there couldn't be elections because it would get scary. That same year June there were elections and it didn't get scary, but now December can't have elections and went to the compromise to make a government. Then they called it the salvation, now I hear that term again. The rescue, Dimitar Popov, you remember. If you don't remember the younger ones, let me tell you, the Internet has records. This government raised inflation by 40%. You also remember this ridiculous phrase: "For God's sake, brothers, don't buy! " How can you not buy bread, medicine and other necessary things?! Inflation has skyrocketed. People have gone under. The money of the Bulgarians was robbed and began the beginning of criminal privatization, and in fact the government became a coalition of supposedly incompatible until then parties. The deputy prime ministers were one of the SDS, the other one from BSP. Well, now I see a similar picture of déjà vu. Not only déjà vu, because we see again Borisov Prime Minister, but deja vu since 1990, because we see the same speculation again: no, there can be no elections, it would be scary, we have to make some coalition. And there is a coalition that has already been said a lot of words here, I will not repeat them that it is unprincipled that it combines parties which, if they had told their voters that they would enter the coalition they are now entering, would not have received zero votes probably and would not have entered Parliament. So these parties lied to their voters. They have spoken one thing, now they are entering Parliament and negotiating something else. I seriously object to the exhibition here of Mr. Borisov at the beginning that everything was for the first time, went transparent. There was no transparency. You remember that we asked the cameras to attend all the negotiations and refused to participate in any consultations if they were not broadcast live. That was our requirement, because I'm already a steamed man. That's why I thought it wouldn't be fair if there were no media and live to give who was negotiating what with whom. This was denied by the main political power and from there the negotiations went dark. It didn't matter that one door was coming in, the other was coming out, and the journalists were running back and forth to hear the answer proudly raised: I do not comment! It's like this: What are you? We're here the elite. We are now negotiating some very important things, what are you running after me? Well, these are the mediators. They need to tell people what this is about. This disrespect, I will even say a strong word, which we have observed in the last three weeks, now we see it in the speeches of those who have taken power, so called the Reformers. Ah, what sparks come out of the gentleman's eyes, who will now become the minister, as stated, in a few minutes! Is that a rematch? I don't know. Probably because last year, ladies and gentlemen, I remember not only remember, but I am a victim of vandalism, which was called Peaceful, intelligent protests. Protests were inspired just because certain parties did not enter Parliament, but then no one said: "This is the choice of the people! The sovereign said so! His Majesty defined the people as I now hear: "Thus His Majesty has appointed the people. Well, that's the kind of coalition we're gonna make. No, then no one said that, but said, "You are bad!" Down, out, motherfuckers, motherfuckers! I don't want to repeat all the insults I heard back then for a few months here, outside, around the National Assembly. These so-called "protests" were paid, inspired by external factors. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In a moment, I will also tell you the connection between the current government and these external factors. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, since we are talking about the composition of the government, there are at least two ministers, at least two for whom it is certain: these are Mr. Mitov of Foreign Affairs, and justice, who remain from the office, who are directly employees of a foreign state. One of them, in order to become a minister of service, took leave of absence from an American institution, which is funded by the U.S. government. This is actually a service of a foreign state.. a person comes and becomes a Bulgarian minister. What can we expect from this foreign official?! Naturally, to promote its interests, and the interests of this country are: we are currently seeing the flames of the fire of what is burning this country. There's a world war going on right now. I have not heard a word from the speakers so far on this most important issue. There's a world war going on in the United States, on the Atlantic, on the European side. I've heard a lot of talk about the Euro-Atlantic essence that shouldn't be cheated on. In fact, I see a competition in Euro-Atlanticism which is more Euro-Atlantic. The depth of the issue is that we in Bulgaria as politicians do not discuss the future of Europe. Europe will soon be changed. It cannot continue as a puppet of the United States to fulfill the wishes of the United States and goes against its own interests, shooting itself in the leg, as it is said, to impose sanctions on Russia, which are causing billions of damage to the European countries themselves. We've already seen on TV the protests of Belgian, Polish, French farmers who don't accept that. This discontent in Europe will bring down today's untenable leaders of Europe because they cannot respond to the public interest. This should and will happen in Bulgaria. But unfortunately, I don't hear these debates. There was only talk about which party is involved, which is not, but why we are not involved, we are angry, we will play against. And we're involved and we've made a lot of compromises. That's all the controversy. Unfortunately, I didn't hear a lot of important questions that are number one for people who listen and look at us. These are the questions about incomes, questions about miserable incomes. Half of Bulgarians live under the poverty line in Bulgaria according to official statistics. These are the questions about missing health care, not to let God let you get sick today, it is better to die straight away, this is the question of young people who have fled abroad who do not want to come back because there is nothing to work here. I don't see anyone suggesting how to solve all these issues. There's talk of a Program Declaration where we've heard nothing but common tales. I have heard this from the future prime minister. I'm sorry, Mr. future Prime Minister, he left the Chamber, I don't know, once again he disrespected this otherwise solemn day, how will an accelerated economic development become in a country that is colonised, a country that is subject to foreign interests and everything that makes some money here is in the hands of others?! You were already Prime Minister, Mr. Borisov, and you did not dare touch the ERPs, as I advised you from this tribune several times. You have not dared to return gold and precious metals to Bulgarian hands, for which I have called you here from this tribune many times. You dared not take a single step to preserve the Bulgarian interest, to prove that Bulgaria is fighting for its own interest. Foreign companies may want to win from Bulgaria, but before that they must be correct and be real investors. There are no foreign investors in Bulgaria at the moment. There are colonists who take a well-developed sector built during bad socialism, exploit it and export the profits. That's today's painting, short of that. There are many more widely developed texts that I can offer you "how exactly Bulgaria is being robbed." I didn't hear anything about it. And this is a question that my colleagues and I at Ataka are mostly interested in. It is not important for us to love NATO. It's important to us that you work for your people so that they can live better. So far, I haven't heard a word about how this is gonna work. This quadruple coalition, which is now stated, how will it do it? Neither yesterday at the solemn moments, the footage in which producers were presented, nor here today, from the platform of Parliament, there were no such applications about how the improvement of the life of the Bulgarians will take place. Why were all these excesses, collusions and protesting, a coup d'état against the previous government, which I, by the way, voted against?! For the information of some permanent liars, here is my vote on 29 May 2013: [[Shows a document with a result of a vote.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u63	We all know. [[Laughter and excitement in the bloc of GERB and RB. Applause at the Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u64	And now I'm voting against it. That's for speculators to know. But I ask: why was this Parliament Satanized when you are now going to rule in the same way? You won't touch the flat tax, you won't touch the foreign monopolies, you won't touch the electricity, you won't kick out the U.S. TPPs, you won't cut the price of renewable energy, which we tried to do in the previous Parliament. "Attack" suggested it, but the contract Constitutional Court called it off. So we would reduce the profits of these oligarchs and this profit would go for a reduction in the price of electricity. You're not gonna do all that. You can't do that because you're tied to them. Because, in fact, the coup, carried out with paid protests, Satanizing the previous government, was carried out precisely to bring back those circles that then lost power. And now it's all about who's gonna get back into government to get their hands on public procurement. That's the whole fight, ladies and gentlemen. There is no fight for people's interests here. There's a fight here who gets to the orders. Certain circles have been cut close to the current President in the previous Parliament. They organized with external intervention some duplicate of Bulgarian "Meidan" but because of incompetence they could not do it even "Meidan". In the end, they achieved a coup through early elections. Well, what's the score? Why it had to be explained that this Parliament is terribly bad, that government is terribly bad, and finally Mr. Borisov invited Plamen Oresharski and said he could appoint him as finance minister in his office. So the whole point was for him to be. Get up and sit down, nothing else!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u65	The weather, the weather...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u66	Please be extended, if you please. Not topics, not problems, but just interest. Get up to sit down! That was the whole push. That was all propaganda. That government and that Parliament were bad, now these are good and beautiful. Is that right? All right, all right, we'll see. People's protests will continue. By the way, I understand you've forbidden the release of passes, Mrs. Tsacheva. Let's get some passes so people can tell us what they're protesting about. However, there is a constitutional right for citizens to protest and explain. So we're against it. We will vote against this cabinet. [[(Loud noise and shouting in GERB and RB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u67	Mr. Siderov asked for a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u68	I've clearly argued why. Because it's a deal room! Thank you for your attention. Now I will give my vote against the Oresharski cabinet to you, Mr. Borisov, to stop lying that I supported this government. For the people say, "Which is lying, on a rope." [[Provides the bank to Mr. Boyko Borisov with the result of the vote. Loud noise and shouting in GERB and KB. Claps by "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u69	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Korman Ismailov. Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u70	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the service ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr President! Mr. Siderov, I don't know if I understand you correctly, but perhaps you're looking for the previous government, Oresharski, Mestan, Stanishev. Is that how I found out? Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u71	Second line, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u72	Once we replicated the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we can't miss replicating his Soviet wing. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] We feel obligated. But it will not be very personal to Mr. Siderov, but to something that is observed in the Chamber, especially in his speech, and violates a good tone since the beginning of the meetings of this Parliament. Colleagues, getting back to the sins of the past is the stupidest thing we can do. By the way, we do it in every campaign, and we build up the election strategies of what someone hasn't done, and then we wonder why the results are like that. People expect us to turn forward and fix the evil in the past, not constantly repeat it. There have been no faultless governments and few in this room have been more fierce critics of GERB's governance than I have. Because I've been in this role more irresponsible then: a young politician, unpopularly introduced, sitting and writing on the Internet whatever I want. However, after all the roaring and roaring against this government, Mr. Borisov won two consecutive choices. And if today we are going to vote for him, it is because the Bulgarian voters have given him this support, despite the obvious grave mistakes of his rule, and we, including us from the Reformation bloc, may not have given us enough, because we have spoken too much against, and we have very little done. And we are going to vote on it and we are going to have our ministers in the toughest portfolios so that in the next election we can go out and show what we have done and look for that trust. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u73	Third line, Mr. Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, honourable colleagues, honourable ministers! I was provoked by Mr. Siderov's statement. I may not have this long experience in politics that you have been talking about since 1988. However, I remember the previous National Assembly how, in fact, with the support of...................... as you wish............you can explain it as you want......... about who voted, in the end, there is no person in this House or in this country who thinks that without the support of............. this government will not exist without the support of. You're showing how you voted, and that's actually exactly the fairy tale. Knowing very well that someone will come out and say this thing and you will be attacked, you have previously decided to insure yourself to go out and show how you voted. When you talk about transparency, if I wasn't a member of the past National Assembly, I would probably believe you sound very convincing. Just tell me, in what transparent way did you provide the past government with the support of the attack? What was this transparent way that you gave the so needed golden finger so that you could secure a quorum so that the previous cabinet could be voted? When you talk about transparency, you better come out and answer how and how was the past government made up? If we are talking about policies, what is to come, what things must be done, really heavy reforms at least you should have bothered to pay some attention to come to the consultations to get acquainted with the program that GERB offers and then to say what you like and what you don't like. You weren't even there. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u75	The hole, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u76	Mr. Korman Ismailov is a representative of a party that when Kasim Dal left their parliamentary group, he signed a declaration of belonging to GERB. I have a copy of this declaration, Mr. Ismailov, I'll give it to you. This one first. Secondly, it is a party created by Turkish special services. Korman Ismailov's photo with Erdogan was distributed in a million copies of the previous elections. I don't know how the Patriotic Front hugged a party that received instructions directly from Ankara from the Special Forces?! It's just known. Personally, I have put a signal in the DANS for Mr. Kasim Dahl, for there is enough evidence that he is working against Bulgaria, running errands outside. So at that line, all I can say is, they found each other and they hugged each other. Radan Kanev the party of Kostov. If someone invites me to Kostov's party, I'd rather, as they say, go drown myself. Mr. Kanev, you are a representative of a party in which the leader is for the prison. [[Noise and lines from RB.]] Ivan Kostov destroyed the Bulgarian economy. [[RB lines.]] You are now smiling smugly here, but a day of retribution will come. Kostov destroyed three thousand structural-determining enterprises of Bulgaria. Those are facts. Mr. Nenkov, who was probably ordered by Father from the Constitutional Court, came out to say some clumsy sentences, as is the fact, Mr. Nenkov, my vote. [[Applause by "Attacka"]] The other thing you say about the golden finger is a metaphor. Now what do you call your new poodles? What will you call them? What do you call them now? [[Noise, cheer and lines.]] What do you call them?! What fingers are they? [[Noise and lines from PF and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u77	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u78	What fingers are they, huh?! The golden hands. [[Radio.]] Happy new bologna!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u79	Any other MPs who want the floor? [[People's representative from the FDA wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] There's no way to explain it personally. You can't do it for a line. The duplicater should address you. Mr. Karakachanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u80	Dear colleagues, the Patriotic Front has always confessed a very clear idea to finally stop this battle and opposition in Bulgarian society. Twenty-five years the Bulgarian nation was divided into left and right, to monarchists and Republicans, now you divide us into Russophiles and Russophobes, and this led Bulgaria to the situation we are in. I am very glad that two of the speakers Mr. Siderov and Mr. Mestan spoke so hard and irritable against the Patriotic Front. For all listeners and spectators, it is clear what this means. However, I do not accept the qualifications of some of the speakers that the Patriotic Front was xenophobic, anti-European and whatever anti-civic coalition. The patriotic front unites Bulgarian patriots who want to say no to opposition. At the beginning and at the time of the elections, we said it so that we did not cheat on our voter and they sent us here that we want consolidation of the efforts of all Bulgarian parties in the name of Bulgaria to be saved and not once again some politicians to go to squat Bulgaria abroad, others to spit and look for cheap political dividends. Dear colleagues, so Bulgaria will not come out of the swamp in which it is located, precisely because of this political opposition. That is why we have participated in the negotiations, we have set clear and firm conditions. The majority have been adopted, and that is why today we support the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I do not accept the qualification that 250 thousand Bulgarians, who voted for us, are xenophobes and anti-Europeans; I do not accept the qualification that we were against the 25-year-old civilization model. I ask the question: who is this civilization model? Who made us the fastest dying nation in Europe, the poorest nation in Europe? The nation with the lowest incomes, the nation with the most heart attacks, strokes, diabetic diseases, everything from which to die the fastest. The nation with the lowest birth rate and the highest mortality rate. Is this the civilization model, I'm asking this vibrant speaker who spoke half an hour ago? Today, for us Bulgarian patriots, this is a model that needs to be crossed out. Only the unity of the nation, represented by this building, because it says: "The Union makes the force, among all honest Bulgarian patriots, all honest Bulgarian MPs, ministers can take Bulgaria to a better end. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, is angry Petko, petty intrigues and the search for cheap political dividends. I remind this live speaker again: Levski said something very simple and clear, read it, do not brag with it, do not think of Levski only on the date of his hanging! Levski said very simply and clearly: "Everyone in Bulgaria will live equally, and Bulgarians, and Turks, and Jews, but under the law Bulgarian. This is the creed of the Bulgarian patriotic union. [[Applause from PF.]] We are all equal before the Bulgarian law! There's no separation! Nowhere does our program divide people into ethnic, religious, or any other principle. When you tell the truth, it doesn't mean you're xenophobic. The fact is that whole regions of Bulgaria are flooded with crime. This crime is very clearly qualified by the people themselves what it is. It is better to tell the truth and try to stop this crime than to keep quiet and act crazy. [[Attack lines.]] When we talk about the European Union, we say that Bulgaria must defend its national interests there. This is not anti-European speaking, this is the practice and behaviour of all those European countries that are now ahead of us. Because there they defended the interests of Bulgaria and not lopped Bulgaria and their political opponents. This is not anti-European speaking. When we say that in the presence of foreign bases in Bulgaria it should be paid for to have money for Bulgarian re-arming it is not anti-NATO speaking. It's pragmatic, economic talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read just a few things from these 11 key points that have been laid down in the Declaration and the Agenda for Future Governance, on a proposal from the Patriotic Front. I said, just a few. First, a complex review, revision of energy costs, forming the final price of electricity for citizens and Bulgarian business. Is that bad? Is it bad to finally see why the price of electricity in Bulgaria is rising and to ask, after a revision, re-negotiating the terms of contracts for buying energy from private producers, to reduce or at least stop the lifting of the price of electricity? Is that bad? Not bad. I ask: is it bad measures to curb domestic crime? This crime, which crushes 90% of Bulgarian citizens. Is that anti-European, better and undemocratic? Every normal country does. I ask: Is the legislative measures to limit illegal logging anti-European, anti-Bulgarian? It's not! These are all things that we have proposed and are set out in the program. I ask the next thing, is it an anti-European facility that hinders the invasion of illegal immigration? Is this anti-European, anti-Bulgarian? No! I'm not gonna ask the question why it wasn't done so far. The question is, if we want to lead Bulgaria forward, we must unite our common efforts as Bulgarians. What's bad? Change in the electoral legislation, introduction of compulsory voting, limitation of the bought vote and ethnic vote, including in some neighbouring countries, in which the countries themselves organise the vote for the Bulgarian Parliament. Is that anti-democratic? So please very much, when we are here in this Chamber, and when we have already taken an oath of allegiance to the Bulgarian people, here to be above all Bulgarians defending the Constitution and the interests of all Bulgarian citizens, I stress, all of us. We have never shared them because there are Bulgarian Turks in our ranks; there are also Bulgarians who profess Islam; Bulgarians who profess Catholicism; there are Bulgarians with Muslim names - thousands. In your ranks there is also an MP whose grandfather was a member of IMRO. So we are neither xenophobic nor anti-European, we are just a Bulgarian patriotic organization. Thank you for your attention. We will support the government. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u81	First line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u82	Mr. Karakachanov, you forget that I am a political observer and participant, as I said, since 1988, and tried to deceive your listeners and viewers that you are born, now you are entering politics, so far Bulgaria has been ruined. I remember very well when he ruled O-De-Se, headed by Prime Minister Kostov, who, as I said before, ruined the Bulgarian economy. You sat here on the banks because you were an O-De-Se MP and silently listened to Mr. Kostov say from this tribune: Today we buried Bulgarian nationalism and did not react, as you did not react to the murder of the Bulgarian economy, which led to the present misery, to the current demographic collapse, which you are now the saviors. [[pointing right-hand side of the room]] [[Applause by "Attacka"]] Why didn't you jump against Kostov then, why didn't you throw away your MP card and say: I protest against robbing Bulgaria! No, you made out, you warmed up the bank, and now you're coming back born after going through I don't know how many 16 coalitions. It wasn't oligarchs, it wasn't Kovachki, it wasn't Gergovtsi, it wasn't anything. You set everything up, and then you came back here to pretend you were lifeguards. Excuse me, there's memory, there's facts, there's factology, so consider the factology when you go out on this high tribune and try to make yourself a savior. Those things that you're listing, you stole them from Attack's proposals. [[Laughter, lines, cheering at GERB, RB and, Pf.]] Yeah, that's right. What price of electricity are you going to talk to me about now, like the other day your lawyer over there, who's laughing, the dark one... [[sighs right]] [[Noise, shout and disapproving lines from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u83	No personal attacks, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u84	Your contact at the Conference of Presidents said our proposal for regulation the price of electricity, for downloading is a waste of time. Who are you kidding? That is why I want the Conference of Presidents to be delivered directly, so I want a direct transmission because you are lying. There you negotiate one thing, get out here and act like people's protectors. You have declared against our proposal that the price of electricity fall. As for the mandatory vote, I've already submitted it twice. Your colleagues from GERB rejected it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u85	Stop lying! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u86	It's in D.C., it's in D.C.! Mandatory vote and census submitted by the "Attack". Then why didn't they want it? [[Noise and lines to the right.]] You can't lie to the facts, you can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u87	Order, please! Second line, Mr. Chetin Kazak. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Karakachanov, you say, "We are not anti-European, we are not xenophobic organization." Mr. Karakachanov, I will read to you some of these in your election platform on the Patriotic Front, and I will finally ask your colleagues To stop the sound terror of the minaret and the ban on circumcision and the ban on the activities of the DPS and the Educational and Language Center for voting and the Rocket Bases aimed at NATO countries and the Protection of NATO Bases in Bulgaria and the Prevention of social benefits for families with more than three children and the Restoration of the Recruitment Service and the Building Forces. Apropo, who should serve again in the Building Forces, Mr. Karakachanov? Would it be interesting if you told us who should serve there? Last but not least: Religious services and rituals only in Bulgarian. Dear Mr. Karakachanov, should we turn only in Bulgarian and pray to our God? If these are your guys, I'm really turning to the Reformation Block: Is this the partner you shook hands with? Is this the European image of this coalition you have made? Are we going to manage Bulgaria with these in the future? Of course, we're not, you of all people. [[Sighs from the right.]] It's no coincidence our leader said the masks fell today. Today it becomes very clear who is who, who is who, who is ready for what in the name of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Third line, Mr. Rumen Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Karakachanov, my line will be very brief, because I will only finish the story that you started. One month the Patriotic Front was playing Grumpy Petko, wasn't it? But you didn't finish the second part. Why is the Patriotic Front no longer a Grumpy Petko and is there anything in the Torture? Thank you. [[Applause on the left and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u91	A hole, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u92	Dear colleagues, it is good that the atmosphere in the National Assembly is lightening up. First, to Mr. Yonchev. We spoke with you a few days ago and the whole of Bulgaria knows we didn't act like a grumpy Petko. We had very clear and definite conditions. And now I'm saying this to all Bulgarian citizens: we have not been here to confirm it, and you will see the composition of the government, we have not negotiated, talked and bargained for ministers. It's plain and simple. So if anyone has been going to parliament with a sack, Mr. Yonchev, to you, if someone has gone with a sack, it is not us, and if someone is angry now because they are not part of this majority, it is not me. [[Applause on the right.]] To Mr. Kazak. Mr. Kazak and I have fought many duels in this room, he is a good speaker, but let him not read the programs as the devil does the Gospel. If he doesn't know what a devil is like the Shaitan reads the Koran for example. [[Applause on the right.]] Don't worry, you won't rule with us.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u93	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u94	The construction forces, who would be there? They will be and should be, as there was an Alternative Military Service Act, people who do not have the necessary education to deal with the modern weapons of the 21st century. Not ethnically, but a principled basis of literacy or those people who, because of some belief, do not want to carry weapons. These people! It's normal! It's not a segregation park. This is a model chosen since 1921-1922 in Bulgaria, which lasted probably the longest. About the gentleman from "Attack" how was Mr. Siderov. [[Laughter on the right.]] You're right, Mr. Siderov. The people have no short memory. Yeah, I've been in this room, somewhere over there was my place as a MP from the ODS. But in this National Assembly, I also stood up for some principles, which I will ask you in a moment whether you stood for them as the editor-in-chief of the Blue Authority. [[Laughter and raging on the right.]] For example, I voted against the Convention on Minorities, while, at the same time, you, as editor-in-chief of the Journal of Democracy, explained how we should send Bulgarian troops to Kuwait to help the American brothers and resented then President Zhelev for not being a great democrat. Then you started talking against NATO. I remember in this article, at the time when you were editor-in-chief, when you were writing in the same body, how nationalists had no place in Bulgaria, they had to go to Turkey and Greece, there was nationalism there would be democracy in Bulgaria and how the wisest politician is called Ahmed Dogan, and nationalists are some dirty, sweaty people. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]] I remember that too!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u95	Liar! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u96	You got it. No, I'm not a liar, the Journal of Democracy has it in the Library, anyone can read it. [[(Lowered laughter and applause by GERB, RB and PF; People's representative Desislav Chukolov repeats repeatedly:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u97	Order, please! Time's up, Mr. Karakachanov, please! I'm giving you... It's too loud and you can't hear the bell.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u98	And one more thing. Speaking of Ataka, we had at least one month of debate, made national priorities in the management programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u99	Mr. Karakachanov, make your way to completion. Don't go into personal attacks!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u100	And you, Mr. Siderov, for three years supported the government of GERB and did not put one priority! People aren't memorable. [[World and long applause by GERB, RB and PF. MPs are standing up. Screams: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u101	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Are there any other MPs who would like to take an explanation? Please calm down. Mr. Siderov, you were by name mentioned by Mr. Karakachanov, but there was no way that this would not happen because you gave him a line. When the duplicater addresses those MPs who have made a reply, there is no way they are not to be mentioned. But as they tell you, and appropriately enough, you have the opportunity to keep taking two minutes of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u102	Thank you, but you know very well that I will use the procedure to answer Mr. Karakachanov's lies. [[Sighs: "E-e-e-e!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u103	You're breaking the rules, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u104	Because it's a lie that I called Ahmed Dogan. I don't know what you said. These are the words of Boyko Borisov. He has said at least ten times that this is the greatest and greatest Bulgarian politician.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u105	Take away his word!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u106	And now you're hugging him, Mr. Karakachanov. Those are Borisov's words. They're in the archives. Isn't that right, Mr. Borisov? You said that, yes. Your tendencies, Mr. Karakachanov, are known to everyone, despite your weight, you are as twitchy as a pump, so whatever you say from here, you were in the gym... [[Laughter and applause by....Attack..]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u107	Please, no personal attacks...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u108	When you were in the Chamber, I was the editor-in-chief of the "Democracy." It was 1990. And Kostov ruled 1997 and when he destroyed Bulgaria, you voted with the button "yes," yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, for, for." You were decapitating a factory after a factory. I did not vote for the beheading of Bulgaria. I was writing articles when I was convinced that the United States could help Bulgaria. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]] But they didn't help, and I saw that the United States only wanted to take, and then, when I saw this truth, I said, "We've been fooling ourselves. While you continue to put yourself in the American Embassy, and now in the Turkish Embassy, because together with Korman Ismailov you will go to the Turkish Embassy and there you will explain to Mr. Borisov's great friend, his brother, as Vecdi Rashidov, Recep Tayyip Erdogan [[Laughter and applause by....Attack..]] [[Applause and chanting "Bitter!" by "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u109	Are there any other MPs for speeches? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u110	One sentence and then really procedure. I just consulted with the President of Democrats about strong Bulgaria. Mr. Siderov, we strongly invite you as a member of the DSB. [[Loud laughter on the right.]] Now, please, I'm making a formal proposal, really, this circus needs to end, end the debate and move on to voting procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u111	Lord Moskov, there is no way debate on solutions to be terminated. Then, when the parliamentary groups have time under the Rules, I am obliged to give them the opportunity to speak. Mr. Korman Ismailov wants a procedure in the manner of conduct. If we calm down, then we can move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u112	Dear Madam President, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members! Madam President, I'm addressing you. You give the word for procedure, you allow from this tribune to tell constant lies in particular large sizes. Please don't let this happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u113	What am I supposed to do with the lies, Mr. Ismailov? [[Laughter at GERB.]] Thank you. Are there any other MPs who wish to take part in the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u114	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In an expression of chilling the passions a little bit, I will allow myself 10 seconds of my time to separate them into my personal silence, with which I will try to bring back in some way the Bulgarian political wisdom to the Bulgarian political parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u115	Mr. Belemezov, if you remain silent for 10 seconds, you will be taken away from the floor! There's no such procedure. [[Radio and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u116	Dear colleagues... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u117	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u118	I listen extremely carefully to the debate and speeches of each of the MPs. I am extremely saddened that today's parliamentary debate is full of corrupt rhetoric, which includes personal attacks, insults and qualifications. It is from this corrupt rhetoric that to this day I cannot explain to the common people who need it. In my opinion, there is no political wisdom that must answer a number of questions and problems, notice, of today's times. Honourable Members, the October 5th elections set up a unique Parliament that has not existed so far, and for this reason I use the word "unique." The existence of pluralism by eight political parties is a prerequisite for transparency, is a prerequisite for good planning and, at the same time, is an option to create the so-called [[Only laugh at BSP LB.]] The MPs who will vote against it today will vote against the people tomorrow to wake up and feel in a more stable Bulgaria. The MPs who will vote against are the people who will vote against the poorest social strata and the opportunity to understand the policy led in today's Parliament because these people, honourable Members, do not know what is left or right. The same people do not know what Euro-Atlantic orientation is. They expect us to find a way to solve their problems. Today's people who vote against will actually vote for the political conservatism with which they stand out in recent years in the Bulgarian Parliament. We, from the ABB Parliamentary Group, will support a government of national agreement and a government that will be able to carry out the necessary reforms in the Bulgarian state. I appeal today's debate to come to the point, ladies and gentlemen, in explaining the problems, with political arguments about the.................... or against.... the Programme Declaration that you have been offered, not in this corrupt manner with rhetoric, which does not solve people's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u120	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Belemezov, I think your decision to remain silent was much better than to say anything. [[Applause from DPS.]] Because I am going to vote against you confidently, I am going to vote not for what you were telling about, not because I do not know what Euro-Atlanticism is, no, on the contrary, I know very well, and that is why I am going to vote against! [[Noise and lines from DPS. Revelations: Bravo! Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u121	Second line? I won't. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Belemezov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u122	Thank you, Madam President. What I meant was that people in the poorest municipalities and social groups don't know what that means, not you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u123	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Are there any other Members of Parliament who wish to take part in these debates? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u124	Madam President, Mr President, Madam Vice President, honored guests, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers! There is something significant that this government is leaving on November 7th, but I do not suspect Mr. Borisov that he wants, can or will make any revolution from now on. [[noise and lines, raging]] [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] Bulgaria needs very deep changes anyway. I think we're all aware of that, although the programming declaration you made doesn't have that much ambition. You have not given her enough attention yourself, and I think the discussion has already been so long, it has reached such heights that it would perhaps be inappropriate for me to return to some analysis and to say that in it we can find points that match our views and will be supported, and significant gaps, or disagreements that we also find. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB]] I'm gonna jump over this thing, even though it's worth it when a government is elected to hear that. Because in the many parliaments of Europe, which is mentioned in this way, the election of a government does not even always exist... is voted for or against the programme, or the government's programming declaration. This means support and non-support. But I still have to say, you can't restore the economy if you don't take steps to reindustrialize the country. It is a delusion if you think that with just some cosmetic regulation you will change the situation. Among the many reforms, there is a lack of that for the financial system and banking supervision. Remember that if banking regulations and supervision are not strengthened, the economy will not be revived, and the turmoil that we are experiencing now may not be the last. You will also support a revised budget submitted by the caretaker government, which already provides hundreds of millions of government money for private interests. I'm not talking about what you need to fill in as lower revenue than planned. So it's about much more important things and hopefully in the program you present, you yourself can start a partial revision of the declared policy if you want to succeed. You say you will not allow a higher proportion of redistribution through the budget, but what continues to be allowed in Bulgaria in recent years? The state authority to claim ownership is already the delivery of the system in which you swear, this is not a Bulgarian phenomenon. But if the budget does not redistribute in the interests of citizens, but the state redistributes in the interests of corporations and the sale of power positions: is this the policy that will inspire, as the previous speaker said, the poor, who are very concerned now that they will not all support the government? Where are our legitimate critics who said: why didn't you remove the flat tax, why didn't you implement the big energy projects? Well, in what you signed, they're not there either. There is only that the period of validity of the V and VI block of the nuclear power plant must be extended and for yourself you reserve the right to continue offering, to insist and to support something more. This is what it is, the official bilateral commitments. You say that you are about equality of different forms of education. Reformers, GERB and etc. Do you know what this euphemism means? That instead of supporting state and municipal education, you would already be giving it to some extent in private education structures. This is the decryption of some of these otherwise harmless phrases. There is no commitment to raise income, there is no commitment to review the unfavorable contracts for the purchase of electricity. What analysis will they do there from the Patriotic Front?! How long are you going to analyze it?! You already know, as we know, that many of these contracts for mandatory electricity buying are not profitable, they are even controversial in a number of respects, and if you propose to change them, we will support you, but to put the social price on citizens is unacceptable. Our view is that Bulgaria really needs reforms that give perspective to Bulgarian citizens and strengthen statehood. I would say it's time for popular reforms. You say what sacrifices you will take, making unpopular reforms. We must make popular reforms, because if you do others, it means that you will again benefit the beneficiaries! [[Applause from BSP LB]] We are exactly 25 years after the beginning of the changes. The BSP, the left, states that this transition is exhausted because it damages the majority of Bulgarian citizens because it is unsuccessful, even failed in the eyes of the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens because it did not lead Bulgaria to the path of development. It did not rise higher in its socio-economic development than the starting position from which it started. And today we even have to defend these achievements, which seemed indisputable to democracy itself, because it, besides an electoral, is already in a significant share of shopping. Therefore, we are at a critical point of confidence in the entire political and economic system formed over recent decades. So we are therefore an alternative, partly even to what we have participated in in these years, because Bulgarian development and the Bulgarian people want such a radical change in Bulgaria. I'd like to say a few words about the cabinet's composition. There are several people who have changed at least two or three parties in a few years from GERB's partners mainly, perhaps more, I have not followed everything. I should also recall another famous phrase that loving Soviet power is not a profession, and loving democracy cannot be a profession. Many make some mixing between European values that we have all accepted and Brussels clichés. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Not every cliche that comes from one political leader or one institution or another is what works for Bulgaria. There are also two candidates for deputy prime ministers who are coalition partners of GERB, and they were among the main candidates in the last presidential elections. It's just for information, if someone didn't do this analysis... [[(Noise and lines. It's a thrill. Replies from GERB: This is the best.]] I hope it's the best, and it's not some political cartel and people's suitability for every single power. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] On this occasion I am not surprised because ABB has been calling us for a long time to participate in the government to have greater authority one of our participations and theirs to remain less noticeable. There is no particular surprise, Bulgarian history has offered all kinds of coup d'états, there have been even in the government since 9 June, so what remains today in a much calmer environment of readiness, of universal dialogue and the search for constructive solutions to have such participation. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] What I want to finish with is wishing the government success because it will work in an extremely difficult environment, probably also at protests, not because we will organize them! [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] I say, not for this or not primarily for this, we are not prejudiced, we would only oppose decisions that deeply harm the people we represent and what, in our opinion, does not correspond to the Bulgarian national interests. I said that Bulgaria is objectively on the verge of a critical situation that can lead to major shocks, and hopefully we as a Bulgarian society and Bulgarian politicians avoid them. We do not expect any rapid collapse of government, we do not want these problems to be damaged, and if you are acting responsibly, I think it would be good to outline the clear political alternatives and return a certain meaning to Bulgarian politics. Part of today's discussion proves that the deep change of post-transition Bulgaria is not so much a matter of new faces and new parties, but of searching for new solutions to new left and new right, which can really solve the problems of Bulgaria and our representatives. Finally, let me address our constituents, assure them that we will be consistent in defending what we have made as a commitment. I think that today can not be challenged by anyone in this room, so that they have confidence, know that they are the future of Bulgaria, because the people of labor and everyone who actually helps create jobs and for the development of the economy are the engines of the future development of Bulgaria. This is the vast majority of the Bulgarian people. To him we turn, and to him we owe. Good luck to you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u125	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kadyev. The Parliamentary Group has six minutes and a few seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u126	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, without any intention of speaking, but I am extremely embarrassed by the debate that has happened today. I always imagined that Bulgarian ministers are people who are some kind of ideal, some example, people with normal family, with normal education, with no black spots in their biography. People who, for me and for my children, will serve as an example. I will not vote for this government, Mr. Borisov. I am looking at you, as you are the future prime minister, it is obvious that there will be such a government. I want to tell you a few arguments about why I'm not voting, hopefully you'll hear them all in this room. First of all, because I don't like this program statement you wrote. I made the effort to examine specifically the economic part of the seven points for economics, five are for digital economy, e-commerce, as if written by some e-commerce trader, for example "Amazon." Then I went to the trouble of looking at the part about public finances, which sounds ambitious and absolutely unfulfilled. You yourself know that there is no way you can have low levels of budget deficit and public debt. There is no way this is going to happen, especially with what is happening around the Co-operative Commercial Bank. It was more honest to say, "We will at least exceed 3% of the budget deficit over the next two years." I cannot vote for this government, honourable Members, in which I am not impressed by personalities. How can I be impressed by the person of the economic minister, Mr. Lukarski, who said that Alexander Stamboliiski was killed by the communists, first? He obviously doesn't know anything about history. Then he said it was a trick what they spoke against GERB. Then he said he'd be a minister. Dear Mr. Lukarski, there was a collage on the social networks that I first laughed at, and then I felt sad, and finally I cried: "Lukarski, it's not you when you're hungry." [[Laughter and excitement in BSP LB and DPS.]] This is really humiliating for a candidate for Bulgarian minister. This thing makes us all ashamed as a nation. And when Mr. Radan Kanev was just saying that there are people who are already sweaty, flushed and out of their eyes glowing, how they will be ministers, he must have meant such people. I cannot vote for this government, Mr. Borisov, in which the Minister of Defence is Mr. Nenchev. I bothered to look at one of his videos, which was uploaded to the site reformatorskiblock.bg, in which he spent ten minutes explaining how he would never forgive the communists because they took away Christmas and so on and so on, because he is no one. A man who was born in 1966 and is a nippleball player, that's as likely as he may be in World War II, isn't it? We all know that thing. [[Laughter and applause from BSP LB.]] You were a member of the Communist Party yourself, weren't you? Did he forgive you? Ask him. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Will he forgive you? Did you take his Christmas away from him? Or me, even though I wasn't a member, but if I had lived then, I'd probably be a member. There is no way, honourable Members, that I can vote for a government which, in 2012, was brought down by people on the street and a large number of ministers and deputy ministers are in today's government. Something new you had to offer, something different! I can't vote for a government. I see Mr. Kalfin who left the chairmanship of the Group of Bulgarian Socialists in the European Parliament with the words: I go out to be an opponent of GERB and right-wing parties. The opponent of GERB and the right-wing parties today makes a coalition with you. Mr. Valeri Simeonov, a supporter of yours, in an interview in February, sit down really and take a look at the "Google" who said what back in time. Today he says: "We have a common ideal. Which of the cheaters do you have a common ideal with, Mr. Simeonov? [[Laughter and excitement in BSP LB.]] So, what kind of government are we gonna do? Not to go back to the Peevski model, which is clearly impregnated in this office, and it's not just one coffee. Do your research and see what happens. Mr. Radan Kanev said one thing he will congratulate you with a song by Sting. I'm extremely curious about what song. Is it going to be the song "Russians" "Russians," or is it going to be the song "Fragile" which means "Creechka," a fragile coalition maybe means, or is it going to be the song "Fields of Gold." Is this what your ministers imagine in the future government? I would like to tell Mr. Kanev that a year ago a famous American group, a favorite by the way of the mayor of Sofia, "Metalika" asked the US government not to use their music in interrogations of prisoners or prisoners of war. I hope, Mr. Kanev, when they question you, they don't use the music of Sting, because you'll get there and you'll be convinced. My fellow Members, I have had all kinds of criticism of the BSP and its leadership, but today I want to thank this group for one thing and it is that we have kept our promise to our voters. Our promise was simple and clear: if we win, if we lose, we remain in opposition. We promise to be strong opposition and nothing more. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u127	- What's the line? I won't. Any other Members of the National Assembly wishing to take part in the deliberations? I can't see. Debates closed. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION on the election of Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with Decree No 244 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria of 6 November 2014. HAS DECIDED He elected Boyko Metodiev Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Voting mode. Vote 234 MPs: 149, against 85, no abstentions. [[Long applause from GERB, RB, PF and ABB.]] The proposal has been adopted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria is Boyko Borisov. [[(Shouting from GERB: "Bravo, bravo! ") (Applause.)]] First negative vote, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u128	Madam President, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers of the office, honored guests! I am using the possibility of a negative vote to justify why I voted against it. If each of the formations of the new coalition declared Boyko Borisov not to be prime minister, only ABB since its creation demonstrated sympathy and interaction, ABB is the only party from the new coalition that has consistently worked for this format. I cannot support you, Mr. Borisov, and such a cabinet, precisely because of the demagogy shown to the voter, stealing the hopes of the left-thinking voter for personal purposes, hiding behind concepts such as state responsibility and compromise in the name of stable governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u129	Second negative vote, Mrs. Tasheva. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u130	I voted against the formation, the cohesive in a dark quadruple coalition, which will lead Bulgaria to a new catastrophe with its Washington mantras, the mantras of the Washington consensus: deregulation, liberalisation, privatization. What are you going to reform, you disrespectful people? [[Voices from GERB: "E-e-e! "]] I thought you guys were the ones doing the reforms. The twenty-five-year transition was right! What are you going to reform, disrespectful Radan Kanev? The reforms of your mentor Kostov? Reforms on reforms? In 1989 there was no health insurance fund in Bulgaria, was there? You didn't have that pension system, did you? You are trying to make yourself a lifeguard and because you have nothing to save Bulgaria from but your own reforms, you are looking for enemies. [[repairs from the Reformation Block]] I am against this government, even because it includes the epitome of the small culture Vezdi Rashidov, who a year and three months ago was cursing the mother of the Bulgarians. We'll play it for you every day on Alpha. You are not worthy to be Minister of Culture, sir! [[Vezhdi Rashidov's lines.]] Washing your hands, I mean Radan Kanev with the fact that while Kostov was conducting reforms, he was writing something on the Internet, walking around, surfing. Yeah, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good! That's where we learned how hot you are at gay parades. I've read your blog and I remember how you explained that your Uncle Mois Cordova in Israel lived happily ever after with her husband Shimon. [[Radio.]] I just want to tell you, as for the Soviet vector, that your personal family has great merit for his celebration. Because your Aunt Sonche Cordova is a partisan of the Anton Ivanov squad...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva, the weather...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u132	And the rest of your family before emigrating to Israel was a member of the People's Court...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u133	...time for a negative vote is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u134	You're such a Democrat! [[Loud noise and lines from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u136	In his political promiscuity...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u137	Don't make me take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u138	... Your family can only be born with the family of Prumova-Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u139	Don't make me take your word for it. [[(Shouts: "Bravo! "), and applause by "Attack.")]] Mrs. Tasheva, I think that you gave your negative vote prematurely, we have not yet voted on the structure or composition. But that's what's gonna happen now. Before that, the third negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u140	Dear Madam President, dear former caretaker government! Congratulations to Mr. Borisov for Prime Minister! What suggestion did we leave today through the TV with the voters? A disturbing sense of lack of teamwork in this government. I am not talking about colleagues from GERB who will be members, but there are others. So, Mr. Borisov, I recommend that you have more team buildings to know each other, to be able to work as a team. And to get to that format, it seems that many of the parties have eaten up the election promises. In fact, I think some of them swallowed it. With regard to the composition, Mr. Borisov, which you are proposing from the Reformation Block, it is evident that he is on the principle of free flying. Cross your fingers later, when you start explaining the presence of your proposed ministers of defence and agriculture! I also cross your fingers when you're going to explain ABB's presence on this team. So good luck to the government! And thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u141	Project of: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Article 7 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria consists of: Prime Minister, four Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers. The ministers run separate ministries. 2. The ministers are: - Ministry of Finance; - Ministry of Interior; - Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; - Ministry of Defence; - Ministry of Foreign Affairs; - Ministry of Justice; - Ministry of Education and Science; - Ministry of Health; - Ministry of Culture; - Ministry of Environment and Water; - Ministry of Agriculture and Food; - Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Ministry of Economy; - Ministry of Energy; - Ministry of Tourism; - Ministry of Youth and Sports. 3. Transformed: Ministry of Regional Development in Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Ministry of Economy and Energy is divided into Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Energy. 4. The Ministry of Tourism is hereby established. 5. The Ministry of Investment Design is being shut down. 6. Instructs the Council of Ministers within one month to arrange all matters relating to the transformation, establishment and closure of ministries, including the redistribution of their functions. Voting mode. Vote 228 MPs: 144, against 83, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Yordan Tsonev, on the structure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u142	Thank you, Madam President, right on the structure. Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable colleagues, honourable Mr. President, forgive me, I have now seen that you are here, dear guests! I voted against the structure of proposals by Mr. Boyko Borisov cabinet because this government, among other things, has a loud name to be reformist and pro-European. For a pro-European government, we are about to see, but for a reformist, the first reform has just been carried out. Let's see who she is. Increase the number of ministries, hence an increase in the number of administration and, respectively, an increase in administrative expenditure. Everyone in this room will say that honestly and honestly. If this is the direction of reforms, this direction gives away at least from your coalition partners nothing more, nothing less thirst for power, because the separation of ministries and their increase is to satisfy their disproportionate desire to participate in the executive power. Prime Minister, God help you with such coalition partners. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u143	Is there a second negative vote? There's no demand. "Project" DECISION for the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova as Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration; Meglena Stilyanova Kuneva for Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues; Tomislav Peykov Donchev for Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy; Ivaylo Georgiev Kalfin for Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy; Vladislav Ivanov Goranov for Minister of Finance; Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov for Minister of Interior; Lilyana Pavlova Nikolova for Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; Nikolay Nankov Nanchev for Minister of Defence; Daniel Pavlov Mitov for Minister of Foreign Affairs; Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov for Minister of Justice; Professor Todor Alexandrov Tanev for Minister of Education and Science; Petar Stefanov Moskov for Minister of Health; Browsy Letif Rashidov for Minister of Culture; Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva for Minister of Environment and Water; Desislava Zhekova Taneva for Minister of Agriculture and Food; Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski for Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Bozhidar Tsetz Lukarski for Minister of Economy; Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova for Minister of Energy; Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova for Minister of Tourism; Krasen Kirilov Kralev for Minister of Youth and Sports. 2. The powers of the caretaker government appointed by Decree No 200 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 August 2014 have been terminated. Voting mode. Vote 234 MPs: 136 against 97, abstention 1. [[Applause from GERB, RF and PF.]] The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mrs. Maya Manolova. Second negative vote, Mr. Tooncher Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u144	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! I voted against it because neither the mandate holder nor this debate convinced me that this would be a government of stability. The biggest problem of Bulgarian citizens today is poverty. Fifty percent of them live around the poverty line. What will stabilize this government with this Programme Declaration and with this composition of poverty?! I don't want to vote for a stable poverty cabinet! I voted against it because I do not want to vote for a lie. It would be more honorable if it were a centre-right government, but it's not even one, it's a government of power, a government of power at all costs, because of the power itself. In the new cabinet we see our former colleagues from ABB who have long claimed to work in service of GERB. Now we are convinced with our own eyes, they are arranged over there in the coalition of power, without principles, because of the power itself. [[Applause from BSP LB]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u145	You were very principled.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u146	Yes, it has not been pleasant for the last year for citizens to protest against the government broadcast with our mandate. But at least I stood in front of them with my face, and you, dear reformers, betrayed them. You lied to them, standing side by side with those you attacked, and forgetting your election commitments. That is why I voted against the Coalition of Power, against a coalition without principles, because of the power itself, against the government of lies. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS. Replies from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u147	Mr. Tuncher Kardjaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! I have consciously voted against it, and I would also like to say in the first sentence that my vote is not personified. Undoubtedly among these twenty-two ministers there are individuals who have, can even be said, enviable skills and would be good ministers as a hypothesis. I voted against it because of the vicious model that the Forty-third National Assembly is putting forward, namely, this government is supported by people who in recent years have in no way been hiding, but have demonstrated, demonstrated humanist attitude, xenophobia in the full sense of this word, attitude towards ethnoreligious minorities who are contrary to modern Euro-Atlantic values. After all, perhaps for one last reason, I am not convinced of the reformist potential of this government with this support. Moreover, there are already political analysts, there are already political analysts who call not reformers, but deformators or transformers the participants and supporters of this cabinet. [[Replys from the right.]] One more nuance I'd like to bring in. The difference between us and the Patriotic Front is that we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms make politics with love and you with hate. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] Our love, be assured, is stronger than your hatred! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u149	Third negative vote? I don't see a request for one. Please, Quaestors, invite the elected members of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister to take the oath. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the stands. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone's up. The Prime Minister and the members of the Council of Ministers are lining up around the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u150	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Minister President Boyko Borisov is baptised. Applause. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-07.u151	Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session is next Wednesday, 12 November 2014. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
