ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, today is the first Wednesday of December, and in relation to the written texts in our Rules I propose the following draft for the work of the National Assembly for 3-5 December 2014. Proposals by parliamentary groups under the order of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure: A proposal has been made by the GERB Parliamentary Group as the first item in our programme to be the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act. There was a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria (BSP), a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the statement of the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin on 1 December 2014 that it is possible Russia to reconsider its participation in the South Stream project and the energy resources envisaged for it to be directed to other energy markets. We commented on this proposal at the Chairman's Council. This proposal does not meet the conditions of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules on which order can be included without voting on the first Wednesday of the month only draft laws and draft decisions on behalf of parliamentary groups. Proposals from the DPS Parliamentary Group, from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group, from the Patriotic Front Parliamentary Group, were not received. There is a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center on this order to see the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for children with importers Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs on 20 November 2014. As regards this proposal, the conditions of art. 50, para. 8 which refer to the two-month term of the Standing Committees to discuss a bill. So this point is premature and cannot enter the program. There are no proposals received from the party "Ataka" and from the ABB under para. Article 8 50 of the Rules. So it stays with this point, and then...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u2	What about our proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u3	On this proposal, I will comment after we vote on the Programme. The rest of the weekly programme: Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. A resignation was given by Nikolai Nankov. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. This actually becomes a t. 1 on the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of GERB in the order of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Importers are Tsvetomir Mihov and a group of MPs. Draft decision to elect a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. Importer Vanya Doneva "President of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors." This is intended to be the first item for Thursday. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for Wednesday at 12:00 p.m. And the usual parliamentary control of art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote on the Programme Project. Vote 190 MPs: for 178, against none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 proposals were received from several parliamentary groups for hearing the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the statement of the President of the Russian Federation. Mr. Borisov is here and will inform the MPs about the topic, which is really up to date and excites different parliamentary groups. Similarly is the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka, made by its President Mr. Volen Siderov, who is also based on art. 110, proposes to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on the termination of the construction of the South Stream pipeline. The two proposals for this to be a point in our weekly program. In the morning of the Chairman's Council I informed the participants in it, and now in a message I will inform the entire plenary that an application was received by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov last week that after the government meeting today he is leaving for Brussels, which is why he cannot participate in the blitzcontrol and because we can even vote for such a hearing and include it as a point in the weekly Programme, this can be the first item. 2 After the second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. It would eventually develop on tomorrow or Friday when he is absent in connection with an international pre-engagement. Go ahead, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u4	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you understand, on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria is submitted a proposal for a hearing of the Prime Minister in relation to the critical situation surrounding the South Stream project. In view of what the President of Parliament has presented, and for the fact that the Prime Minister is already here, we are withdrawing our proposal. It is not necessary to vote, to develop the entire hearing procedure, all the more so that it, as we understand, because of the proposals under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly will not most likely develop in today. We therefore prefer to hear the Prime Minister's intentions, the position of the Prime Minister, to be able to make brief statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups, and we propose that this discussion should end with a joint act of Parliament with the adoption of a declaration expressing the clear position of the Bulgarian Parliament for the continuation of this project. And in connection with the upcoming visit of the Prime Minister to Brussels, we hope the Bulgarian National Assembly will have such a position, which will be an additional argument for him to be able to state in Brussels that Bulgaria is no longer a defeated country and that we want to use all the opportunities of European membership as loyal partners of the European Union, not to lose the last opportunities for economic and social development of Bulgaria. For this reason, Madam President, in a spirit of constructiveness and determination at the same time, I am making this request so that we can proceed shortly to what you have announced as an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u6	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u7	You're withdrawing the request for a hearing. There is yet another proposal to be made in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure by Rositsa Yanakieva and the MPs of the ABB Parliamentary Group. They offer in the order of art. 110 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a hearing of the Energy Minister on the statement made by Russian President Vladimir Putin on 1 December that Russia could not continue the work on the South Stream project because of Bulgaria's refusal, and that the European Commission had no desire to give the project a green light. Is this proposal withdrawn or not? ABB's group withdraws the offer. This concludes the vote on the programme for this week. The messages and other things, in order not to waste time in view of the few minutes the Prime Minister has until the government meeting, I propose to do them after we have completed the procedure for his statement. Mr. Borisov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suppose you're all expecting that we have some kind of written or whatever notification. On the contrary, both you and we learned from the news from neighbouring Turkey from President Putin's statement that the South Stream project will be stopped. As you are well aware of the history of South Stream since 2006. The government decisions of previous governments to be suspended, so I propose that when spoken by the studios, it be borne in mind that the decisions of the Council of Ministers, which have been taken, are written, have them and can be easily read. In today's day, I would like, because tomorrow we have lunch with the President of the European Commission Mr Juncker, then with the new President of the European Council Donald Tusk and the evening meeting with the President of the European Parliament Mr Schulz, to take the opportunity that what today the Bulgarian Parliament could accept as a declaration, or I could hear from you, to be presented directly at these three levels in the European Union. My request is to make as much constructive conversation as possible with tasks to me than to take advantage of the time you have and we are here together, to read who contributed how much or who prevented how much. There are several questions which I will ask and would be good to be ordered by the Bulgarian Parliament. They are the ones people in Bulgaria ask as questions. They're both in one direction and the other. "South Stream" went through stages for which, including the current government, we still cannot get to the treaties. I don't know if the previous rulers have read them. I asked Prime Minister Oresharski at the presidency if he had read them. He said he didn't. So I suggest that the parliament assign us, if necessary, forcefully take them, so that I can inform you of what is written in them. Because none of you have read a figure of how much Bulgaria will gain from South Stream and since when. That's not a number. If it's 400 million. EUR per year, as President Putin said, this means half of 3 billion to be paid in a year and a half or two, make it three years. I've heard, but I can't read in any way, because we're not given how much and what year we'll have from the transmission of this gas profit and how much. If one of the colleagues on the left, I see Mr. Chobanov here, or if Mr. Dragomir Stoynev knows, to indicate where to read it, where to see it, because, I repeat, such a figure I do not know. Maybe you could enlighten us?! If they continue not to give us the contract, we will continue to be unable to provide you with such information. On the other hand, I do not accept for diversification the same Russian gas if we take it from Turkey and Greece, and I do not know how the Greeks would release it without accepting the third liberalization package, as a Member State of the European Union, and I would insist to hear from the European Commission that if the tube from Turkey came into the territory of Greece, would it build it and give us this gas in accordance with the third package of Brussels? Bulgaria is a loyal member of the European Union, principled. Prime Minister Oresharski at the last meeting sent a letter to all ministers to stop all activities under the South Stream. After doing so, he has proved that before the service government, his government was responsible to the European Union, the government of BSP, the DPS, supported by Ataka. It's written in black and white. Then, if the gas goes around Bulgaria and comes from Greece, is this diversification of the same gas?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u9	Of course not.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u10	I do not find it diversification, moreover, that the interconnectors with Greece, with Turkey, with Serbia, with Romania are already ready, including in the budget that I hope you will accept, we have put 100 million for the interconnector with Greece. That means we're working on the interconnectors. There the estrangement procedures were delayed in previous governments because of archaeology along the route, not because of the fault of a party or some minister because of archaeology. Therefore, to these questions, we, as a government and as a parliament, will want Brussels to give us an answer, because it would not be fair for Bulgaria to stand up for European principles and say at least that is what the majority of parties have said that we are for South Stream. Yes, here you should know that in this package or in this third package it is said that this happens after construction after it is built. As a matter of fact, there are and we need to point out precedents on both the lower side of the South and from the North Stream. In a word, the parties on the left and on the right have their rights to ask the Russian side, on the one hand, why these negotiations and contracts with them, including with the increase in price, go and if this is the profit, why don't we sit down and write exactly and clearly: 400 million each. EUR per year, costs a billion and a half euros for the Bulgarian country, we invest our own Bulgarian billion and a half and three years later we start to earn 400 million. Euros. By the way, this becomes another contract................................................ Moreover, there is another risk if the pipes go directly through Turkey, at one point Ukraine will no longer be a bypass for Russian gas, but also the transit to Turkey through Bulgaria, from which we earn about 100 million a year, will stop. In one word to me, I need the Bulgarian Parliament to give me clear tasks formulated in a similar way so that we can stand up for them both in one direction and in the other: in one case before the European Commission, in the other case in front of the Russian side. Because I do not accept from neighbouring Turkey to be told about the sovereignty of Bulgaria. When we have adopted the Treaty on European Union, we have clearly said that we comply with the European directives of this large European family. And the fact that colleagues from BSP, DPS and Attack have signed the suspension of South Stream... [[Noise and lines from... Ataka.............................................]] That's an indisputable fact. It's an undisputed fact, I can read it to you. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u11	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u12	Would you like me to read it to you, colleagues? [[Replys from "Attacka". National Representative Delyan Dobrev submitted a document to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] I wanted to offer you more constructively to talk, but this is the letter from Prime Minister Oresharski to the honourable ministers in which he says: I ask you once again within your delegated powers... You've written it very finely, don't you think? [[Radio.]] Would you read it? I don't see it. It's very fine. I'll read it to you now. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u13	I ask once again within your delegated legal powers and competences to take all possible measures to implement the above-mentioned official position of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria with a view to assisting in carrying out the above-mentioned procedure of the European Commission and not releasing opportunities for subsequent sanctions against the Republic of Bulgaria. There is more emphasis on the above: I also declared the suspension by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria of the activities of the implementation of the South Stream project until the final conclusion of the infringement procedure of the European Commission No 2014/2176.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I think it's clear enough. You can give it to your colleagues to read. And that's not the point of coming here. Let us focus and try to see, if this project is so profitable for 400 million euros a year, to save it. To give me this opportunity, and on your behalf, to have the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament or its support behind me, to try to save it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u15	We have specified the possibility of statements on behalf of parliamentary groups within 5 minutes. Mr. Siderov is making a request. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say right away that "Attack" has never, in any way, signed an agreement in any document to stop the South Stream. This was the policy of the ruling parties both in this and in the previous Parliament. The former prime minister has agreed to stop the South Stream after the intervention of a group of US senators led by John McCain, for which he received our criticism. This was the simple history of pressure on the colonial country Bulgaria. On 1 June, Energy Commissioner Oettinger made it clear that no South Stream is to be built if Russia does not recognise the Kiev Junta, of course, it does not call it the Hunta, I call it the Kiev regime. This was clearly said by the European Commissioner for Energy. The next day, the European Commission began to prepare sanctions against Bulgaria if it accidentally decided to deviate from the colonial policy of obedience and assumed that it started doing South Stream. In other words, Brussels has made it clear: we will sanction you and we will do all possible problems if you start fulfilling your bilateral agreement with the Russian side. Because Bulgaria has signed a bilateral agreement. This is not a treaty between Russia and the European Union, but between Russia and Bulgaria. [[Relations from the Patriotic Front.]] Bulgaria, however, has no right to defend its own contract and implement it, Brussels says. On June 8th, McCain came to see in person whether Prime Minister Oresharski wouldn't happen to slip off the line of obedience. Well, he wasn't crooked, he stood up and said, "I'm stopping South Stream." To this whole thing, the attack did not only have a positive attitude, there was a sharp negative attitude, as it is now. We believe that the South Stream is to be built. That we should not build a South Stream coalition, which is now calling out in the Chamber, I will not mention it. But when no South Stream is built, Turkey wins because we will buy Russian gas with a Turkish mark-up. This is coming up. This is a repeat for me, deja vu already on the play, which took place during the reign of Kostov, whose party is now in power again. Then he stopped the Syn Stream for Bulgaria. "Sin Stream" was built for Turkey. And now the Turkish country receives natural gas from Russia and becomes an increasingly developing state. This policy of obedience, praise to the US and Brussels shows that Bulgaria is losing to it. If Bulgaria behaves like Hungary, it will win. I do not know what support the Prime Minister wants from the Bulgarian Parliament, I did not hear exactly how he formulated his desire for support. Let me make it clearer. Prime Minister, tell me exactly what kind of support you want from Parliament. But my opinion, the opinion of the Ataka, is that we must tell Brussels that we have a bilateral agreement with Russia and we will carry it out, that is to say we will make South Stream because it is profitable for the country. That's why you would get our support with two hands. Everything else is clear that we cannot succeed because this is a very high-level war. The United States is fighting a war with Russia in the territory of Ukraine. We have no way of interfering with these two key countries in this war. However, we can protect our interest by saying that we will fulfill the agreement with Russia and we will build a South Stream. Because on top of that, if we do not, then there will be penalties, then there will be arbitration and, as happened with Belene, we will also have to pay on top of that. Why? Because we chose to be obedient. Let's see if we can't be obedient, Prime Minister. My advice to you is this time not to be obedient to Washington and Brussels and see what happens. I tell you that it will be better for Bulgaria. You decide that in you is power. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. He has the word, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u18	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Members! We from BSP left Bulgaria are satisfied with the development of this procedure because the Prime Minister is here. I think it's working. Even more real results will be given if Parliament unites around a common position in which we will participate a position that will be of the Bulgarian Parliament and the executive power, the Prime Minister in Brussels to bear in mind this position and to make its conversation with our partners much more frank. We said we wouldn't go back, but we went back to overstepping rights from previous Prime Minister Oresharski. Prime Minister, there is no position on the Council of Ministers. Check the records. There are declarations from the Prime Minister. And it is good that this letter shows how much pressure has been put on it by Barroso, pressure to stop a project. Note what is said in this same position that there is a serious nature of the potential breach of legislation. Because everyone's talking about breaking the law. The European Commission is talking about the serious nature of the potential breach of legislation. Even then, in the Prime Minister's first declaration, you remember that as President of the National Assembly, I said that the Prime Minister cannot stop something that is not state property; that this is a parexelance action that is in violation of the law. We're the rule of law, aren't we?! Or the law has sovereignty when it comes to foreign interests, and there is no sovereignty when it comes to our interests. Dear Prime Minister, I think that today we should be aware that Bulgaria has done a lot to make this project supported by the majority of Bulgarian citizens. In the last year alone, two environmental assessments of the marine and land areas were adopted. In the last year alone, the technical project, which is in the company, was designed to know that it is there. There are representatives of the state, there is no minister to take care to provide you with information, because we as a shareholder in this company have access to all the things you ask about. During the last year alone, the building permit was issued and was published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the last days of the previous National Assembly. Of course, the capitalization loan was also provided for the 30%, with which Bulgaria participates with funding. But it's all backwards. Today we face the danger of Bulgaria once again being surrounded and the Ukrainian joy, the joy of other countries should tell us that we, as Parliament, as a people, as a country, should try to unite around a position to defend. Because both for you and for everyone it is clear that Russian gas will still deliver us, only Turkey and Greece. This thing is unacceptable, and generations will never forgive us for it. It is not important whether the opposition will use this issue, or whether the government will justify itself, or whether we will read the historical development of this sad story of another failure to realise national interests. That's what happened to other projects, and now I won't remember them here. We demand that Parliament, all Members of Parliament, seek opportunities to unite on a declaration that the President of Parliament should propose. A declaration that as far as possible...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u19	A service project has been provided, Mr. Mikov, to the parliamentary groups' guides, and they currently have the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u20	Thank you. Maybe he's there. He didn't get this far. I apologize! Thank you, Madam President. This declaration should say and demand from Brussels and Moscow an equal and fair attitude towards Bulgaria and all those countries that lose from the South Stream. ♪ 'Cause one ♪ [[the President signals that time has run out]] hypocrisy by our great partners, whether they are east or west, will not be forgiven by Bulgarian citizens. We will not be forgiven and our cowardice at this moment. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u21	Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u22	Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! I think yesterday was a beautiful day for Bulgaria! Finally on the horizon from among the clouds there was a ray of sunshine hoping that a harmful energy project for Bulgaria could be terminated. We're still not sure if that's gonna happen. God willing! Because, apart from the political talk here and on the media, no one, after all, for this five-six-year period of incredible propaganda of this project, has explained to the Bulgarian people what its benefits will be. I'm talking like a technocrat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u23	Four hundred million.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u24	Four hundred million, six hundred million, those are Putin's words, and that's a lie! That man is lying! [[BSP bl.]] So don't call! Let me finish my speech, be so kind as to listen to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u25	Order in the court, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u26	Is Bulgaria interested in this project? This is the most important question to be answered. Like some other colleagues who do not share the idea of realising this project, we should not hide behind European requirements. They are exactly three and three can be fulfilled, not to mention that the two have already been fulfilled. They can be executed and the gas can go to Europe, but Bulgaria has no use for this. I don't care about Europe's benefits, I don't care about Russia's benefits, I care about Bulgaria's benefits. First of all, the project in this three-four-year period was priced four times intentionally by the Russian side. The same number was used in the construction of the Nord Stream. The part that built the Russian side was twice as expensive as the part that built the German side. The same number applies here so that the participation of the Bulgarian country can be increased as a value and because if you do not know it is paid with the transit fees, it was formally stated by Russia that for 22 years we will not receive transit fees to pay our pathetic 15% of the increased price of the South Stream. Not 22 years, maybe 122 years, we would have waited. Our kids wouldn't be getting transit fees. Well, if we do not receive transit fees, what is the use of this South Stream and give our valuable Bulgarian territory?! So the Russians can sell their gas in Europe? It's not that! The second lie. There are people in this room to be provided, I will not quote names, in a TV studio said 15 thousand. jobs. Then Mr. Stoinev, as I recall, dropped it to 5,000. Bullshit! As early as 1986, when the transit link between the northern border with Romania and the Valcha meadow was established down south, [[a line from MP Atanas Merdjanov]] This pipeline, which was built and was about 300 km away, was built by 560 people. This is about high-speed high-tech production and high-tech technology participation. It can't be that many jobs. A similar project, I repeat, was built during socialism with 560 people who worked. And jobs won't provide us! The other will be duplicated Bulgaria's transmission network, which currently provides about 100 million revenue in the Bulgarian state budget, the transmission network, which is already built and on which Russian gas passes. By doing the South Stream, with its planned deviations to Greece and Turkey, what are we going to get?! Pretzels, the pretzel hole, that's what we're gonna get! What are the benefits, I ask, of this project? Only for Russia, just for someone else. Nothing bad happened. There is no need to continue to transform the discussion of a purely economic project, a project that has no financial benefits for Bulgaria, there is no need to discuss it in the way the relations between Bulgaria and Russia were discussed during socialism, and to talk about the sun and air of every living being. The only thing we need to care about is the interest of Bulgaria. In the period before the European elections, I said and repeated: this is a mouse trap. The Russian side wants to get us into a contractual relationship with penalties. Was it not enough for us to have NPP Belene, I ask, where the threat of being convicted and paying billions of dollars continues to hang? Billions to be paid! Is this supposed to happen again with a contract that's not clear where it is? Mr. Borisov, when will you find this contract?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u27	I don't know where he is either.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u28	You have to find the contract, you have to show yourself to the public, you have to see what the penalty is. The Russians did it, the Russian side did it. The Russian oligarchy passed this project and sold it to Bulgaria so that we can pay penalties as we will do at Belene. Even then, during the election, I said that this project was technically not feasible. Nowhere in the world is there a route built that is 1,000 kilometers long at two and a half kilometers deep, and I'm not going to explain why. Not to mention that this thing can only use English rolls-Royce compressors. [[The President signals that time has run out]] . There aren't any. We went to Annapa, unlike all of you who are blabbering about this matter. There's no one there talking about South Stream. There's talk of gasification at the Krasnodar region. Take the trouble to check it out! A big balloon blew up. I hope Putin doesn't change his mind. This is most useful for Bulgaria if it is not done South Stream. And God forbid we have any penalties. Mr. Mikov, the declaration that you have proposed, we will not support it in any way. It is against the interests of Bulgaria. Thank you. Sorry I'm late.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u29	On behalf of the Group of the Reformation Bloc Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u30	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! On the part of the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov was asked to form a common position regarding his visit to Brussels. We must say what we have negotiated so far as part of the management formula which directly protects the interests of Bulgaria, namely: European rules must be respected, not because they are European rules, but because they protect consumers, lead to competition and the possibility to buy gas from different suppliers. The problem is that for the last twenty years Bulgaria has been held under a total Russian monopoly and all alternatives have been sabotaged purposefully for years so that Bulgaria cannot become the only country in the European Union that can buy gas from only one source of Russia. Prime Minister, there is no country like this. For this reason, the specific requests that we must make to Brussels are the following: Firstly, for a European Energy Union, which would mean as a large consumer, the European Union can negotiate much better prices than any country alone. This is the meaning of the European Energy Union. Because at the moment another, which is not being said, Bulgaria is buying one of the most expensive gas from Russia. We're paying one of the highest prices, which is no coincidence. This will continue until there is a European Energy Union. (The Prime Minister spoke with the MP.) Please don't distract the Prime Minister because these are important things. The second thing we have to ask for. Putin himself said:? 400 million. EUR profit for Bulgaria. This means by multiplying by two because the project company is 50% Bulgarian, 50% Russian, so the transit fees on an annual basis must be 800 million. EUR, not 400, so that 50-50 can stay for the Bulgarian side. I mean, from here on out...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u31	The profit is 400 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u32	Okay. It doesn't matter! So the transit charges at least in this situation, that is, your corrections will have to be even larger, but minimum should be 800 million. EUR per year. That is, Putin has bet this decision himself as a benefit for Bulgaria. Let's ask for it, Prime Minister. Let's say it's promised, a wonderful press conference in Turkey. Having promised it, this will be the minimum of the transit fees that the project company can receive from the South Stream. Because so far, excuse me, Bulgaria is taking about 100 million transit fees. And this message of potential losses, which makes Putin, contradicts the last twenty years, which Bulgaria has received so far. I'm sorry. I mean, it seems speculative, it seems unfair. Let's ask for it when he promises it. Next, to ask the European Union for EU support for the interconnectors as part of the European Energy Union, not only for the one with Greece, the one with Turkey and the one with Serbia. Dear colleagues, if we do not build the interconnectors, another difficult winter awaits us, because if you read Putin's message carefully, it talks about a possible decrease in quantities for Europe. So we need to prepare ourselves and not be totally dependent on Russia and not just buy this expensive gas. [[Relations from BSP left Bulgaria.]] To ask the European Commission for support, including financial support, including logistics to build the interconnectors, so that we can buy the cheapest gas for the given market situation, which will lower the price of the steam in Bulgaria and the price of electricity. And by buying from only one source, as it is now, this holds the price of heating and electricity, which is key for Bulgarian citizens, artificially high due to the short-sighted policy of a number of left-wing governments in Bulgaria. Why can't we support this declaration? We absolutely can't! Because if you see the last point in BSP's declaration, they say so in fact, but written in a way not to be understood immediately. They want European rules for South Stream not to be respected. That's what they want. So the purpose of Putin's message was this. He says so: "We will give up the project if all of you, including the European Commission, do not squat immediately. This is his message. If you do not squat immediately, we will give up the project. What does squatting mean? Not to be able to buy any other gas other than Russian through South Stream. That's what this is about. This actually wants the BSP declaration by including the principles or practices that have them for the North Stream. That's what they asked for. We cannot support such a thing at any cost, honourable Members. Finally, Prime Minister, we must say in Brussels two things: European rules and economic efficiency. If this isn't done, we don't need this project. If we build a Russian monopoly, then a second Russian monopoly and finally a third Russian monopoly, we should not be angry that our gas is the most expensive, that when it is stopped, we remain cold and that business pays high prices, which hinders its development. It is high time for this policy to be terminated, to build competitive links so that we can have better competitive prices, which will reduce the price of heating and electricity in Bulgaria. This is the key issue, Prime Minister, which we must put before our partners in Brussels. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from RB and singles from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u34	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that from this high tribune it is not necessary to go and explain since July 2007, when the idea of South Stream was generated, to date, the guilty six governments that could not implement this important project for the country. Unlike the previous colleagues who are strongly opposed to this project, I am for this project and ABB is for this project. So it seems to me that it is wiser what the Prime Minister asked him to be given a mandate by the National Assembly to hold talks at the highest level in the European Commission, to unite around a joint declaration that he will defend in the European Parliament and in the European Commission. However, it seems to me that this is impossible, as the differences are too great. And I have written here at least ten questions if gas supplies to Bulgaria are stopped; are the Bulgarian national interests protected; whether the South Stream has legal actions to close it by the Russian side; does BEH intend to take relevant actions at corporate level and so on and so forth. It seems to me that this is not the point at the moment to discuss who is guilty and how he is guilty on dates and facts. Pò I wish we could unite and broadcast one group of all parliamentary groups, make one such joint declaration that we can adopt in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u35	What year?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u36	I think that this can happen today and these subpoenas which I am saying that this declaration can happen today and be given in support of the talks that the Prime Minister is willing to have in Brussels. He did not say that the project was not effective, but the opposite said that with the parameters reported by President Putin, it could become very effective. Therefore, I think that we should also take this last opportunity to renew the contract and its implementation. Personally, I would suggest whether this declaration is best or not, that it has a common position so that the European Union can broadcast a single message to the external, such as Russia, partners in energy policies. It is important to define clearly and consistently energy objectives and actions at national and European level. In this declaration, Member States must identify, coordinate our national policies and combine their efforts and resources to achieve an efficient energy market. The common and integrated European market also includes physical infrastructure. It is very important to point out that in order to reduce the likelihood of such problems, it is important for the European Union to promote a diversified fuel-energy balance, the use of local energy resources and the construction of stronger infrastructure, especially in Member States that are most dependent on a single source of gas supply. This is a message to the European Union for a common policy. Moreover, on 9 December, a meeting of ministers is to be held and the issue of South Stream will be put forward. I therefore think that we should act highly responsible in the National Assembly to adopt a joint declaration and give the Prime Minister the right to defend this declaration in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u37	The word is Mr. Ramadan Atali.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u38	Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! Hearing all the speeches from colleagues from all the parliamentary groups, I asked myself one question: is there another country that does not have consensus on large infrastructure and energy projects? Tell me, I couldn't think of another country other than Bulgaria. We are talking about diversification, the supply of energy raw materials because Bulgaria does not have enough gas, oil and a number of other raw materials, and at the same time we did so that we banned the studies of our shelf and the Bulgarian underground, the studies of all those energy raw materials that are needed for Bulgaria. Colleagues, we need to do a retrospect and check all the laws related to the research and extraction of all that and the supply of energy raw materials from all countries to Bulgaria. Bulgaria was a country that it wanted, and we, the MPs, had to be the people to protect us to be an energy centre for the distribution of those streams that could pass through Bulgaria. Here, I do not want to go back to Ivan Kostov's decisions about the pipe that passed on the bottom of the Black Sea and went to Turkey. Dear colleagues, today I want us to be concerned. Concerned first about Bulgaria, concerned about our constituents, concerned about a project for which yesterday, for one reason or another, we were asked by NATO by Russia. I would like to say that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always been consistent and we have said that this project is only feasible in meeting the requirements of the Third Energy Package of the European Commission. At the same time, for what the previous governments have done, I admire them, including Minister Dragomir Stoynev, that the five energy ministers in the countries were able to succeed, where the South Stream tube would pass, and may still pass, transferred responsibility to the Commissioner for Energy Mr. Oettinger, for which he is responsible for conducting the negotiations to comply with all the requirements of European laws. Dear Prime Minister, I think that you should do everything possible to protect the European Commission's interest first, to protect Bulgaria's interests before the European Commission, to protect Bulgaria's interests before Russia, so that in all compliance with the requirements that are needed, this infrastructure energy project will be implemented and Bulgaria will have an interest. If today, fellow Members, we leave all the party interests and concern to proceed to the consideration of those issues, tasks and requirements that this government must set before the European Commission and Russia, we will be at the level of what our voters and Bulgaria expect. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u39	On behalf of the independent MPs Mr. Velizar Enchev asked for the floor. The exact concept is: non-member of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u40	Madam President, Prime Minister, colleagues! A moment ago, I listened with great attention to Mr. Prime Minister Borisov's statement and was impressed to say it directly. The first that you learned from the news, Mr. Prime Minister, about stopping the South Stream gas pipeline. The second unpleasant news is that you can't get to the contracts. On this occasion, I would like to ask you: what is this country that you are ruling, in which the Prime Minister, the Chief of Executive, is learning in the news such news, I am not saying pleasant or unpleasant, yet in this matter I have not spoken, from the media? What do the embassies of Bulgaria work in the Russian Federation and Turkey? But that's the less trouble. The bigger trouble, in my opinion, and the more unpleasant question I want to ask you is: what do you want to say by admitting that you can't get to the contracts? Let me remind you, Prime Minister, that the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which is one of the contracts signed by a Bulgarian country in your presence in 2012, is a trading company with a hundred percent state participation and its principal is the Minister of Economy and Energy, and the principal of the Ministry of Economy and Energy is you. Therefore, you can ask and receive this contract. BEH is this institution, which, as it says in its Statute, has the right to terminate or award contracts on the construction of the South Stream gas pipeline. I remind you once again: on 16 November 2012 two contracts were signed in your presence: for gas supplies and for an investment decision for the construction of the pipeline signed by the bosses of the "Gszprom", "Bulgargaz" and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Then you have stated something very important, which I will now remind you and which contradicts your words that you cannot get to the treaty. You have stated: the agreed price for gas supply cannot be specified because it is a business secret.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u41	During the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u42	Yes, during the negotiations. I ask you: why don't you enter your mandate as prime minister right now and get this contract? I am also asking you a second, very important question, which is directly related to the topic of South Stream. In 2012, April, you were visiting Georgia and then a visit you said, Prime Minister Borisov, that if Georgia has liquefied gas ports and can deliver liquefied gas to the Bulgarian ports Varna and Burgas, we will continue to work actively for a memorandum on the supply of liquefied gas to our ports with Georgia. That's what you promised. And one more question I'm going to ask you about. On June 11, this year you were in the United States of America. During a meeting with US senators, before the American business in particular, you said: After the formation of a common European energy union in cooperation with the United States of America will be negotiated for supplies of liquefied gas from America, depending on the needs of the European market. That is, within two years, you have stated that you will negotiate supplies of liquefied gas with container ships from the United States of America and from Georgia. Is this possibility still standing? It would be very important to hear your answer. Finally, let me say that I support the proposed declaration to require a fair treatment of Bulgaria and all the countries that would be losers of this treaty from the European Union and Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u43	Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u44	Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister, we appreciate your efforts to solve the case of South Stream. We, from the GERB Parliamentary Group and from the political party GERB, support all efforts that concern the preservation of national security. We have stated many times from this tribune that the only way to build South Stream is if the rules, criteria and stages in Bulgarian and European legislation are respected. We have said many times that the South Stream is only possible if the procedures and regulations for transparency and clear use of funds are respected by the European Union. GERB has always been and will be a guarantor of the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria. However, we cannot accept that the colleagues on the left who supported the Oresharski government, which the government brought to Bulgaria a criminal procedure precisely for the construction of the South Stream... If we go back in time, we will remember that December between Christmas and New Year was an elected performer who gave a billion more, a higher price. Let us not forget that the economic minister, who handed over Bulgaria's sovereignty with one power of attorney to the European Energy Commissioner to negotiate for Bulgaria... Where is Bulgaria's position here? Why did Prime Minister Oresharski sign the suspension of the project?! And you, Prime Minister, have read it. [[(Reply from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov:]] They helped you, yeah... Where is the Bulgarian sovereignty here?! So, fellow Members, let's stop with the political attacks, let's be constructive, let's forget the political chaos, let's at least be reasonable and give the Prime Minister a chance to really solve this case by going to Europe! [[BSP LB.]] This is the only way to find the right solution, a nationally responsible solution and protect energy security. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u45	Among the parliamentary groups, a request from the BDZ only, after which the Prime Minister has the floor for an answer. No questions asked, so it's you, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From what I've heard and carefully wrote down, there are few things, at least at this point, but I hope now, while I am on the Council of Ministers, you will find some consensus. Like the pessimist and the optimist for a cup, whether it is half empty or half full: from what I have heard, if I am pessimistic, I will say that half of Parliament does not support me in any decision, if I am optimistic I will know that half of Parliament agrees. I hope that by the end of the day, by tomorrow's meetings, you will clear and clear a position that would be nice to have as a service may be a sentence, but there may be. It is also important for our talks with the Russian side, it is also important for our relations and negotiations with the European Commission. Mr. Atalay, today at the Council of Ministers, I do not know for what reason, concessions for the Council of Ministers. You know that the field is being developed by Khan Asparuh, but for Silistar and Theresa, I can, from what I have talked with experts for a long time, claim that Bulgaria will not only have gas for its consumption but will export gas. In this regard we will be competitors because there are huge amounts of gas in Bulgaria. Huge! And this is the hope for future generations, which Martin Dimitrov quoted because this is not only 100% diversification, but a guaranteed future for the Bulgarian economy Today we will see them at the Council of Ministers. So the three fields of Silistar, Theres, and Han Asparuh, plus those we have in Lovech and in other places, now nearly 10% of our consumption is from the Galata, from the Black Sea and I see huge opportunities in this regard of Bulgaria. Huge opportunities! As far as Mr. Enchev is concerned, with all due respect to you, we never really said that it shouldn't be built. On the contrary, we have said that we are building South Stream with compliance with European rules and are looking for diversification of other gas fields. The problem is they can't pass tankers with gas, they can't get through the Bosporus, they can't get through. There are various ports at the moment, and I am convinced that Europe will invest a lot in such ports, because at least in the next 10-15 years the United States will start exporting their cheap shale gas, which they are currently using, but they are not authorised to export it. So we also need to be ready, and this is the readiness: that is why we have put in the budget this 100 million for the interconnector with Greece, because, let's say, on the bottom side there are such ports. In short, I see nothing wrong with talking about this topic and that we could diversify our sources in years to come, but the biggest diversification is the deposits we have. With all due respect to you and request: you see how convenient it is to talk politically, each party has so many things to say. Indeed, 2012, Mr. Enchev, this is what I wanted to think of your question, we talked about signing this agreement and stayed to specify all these prices because there are a mass of requirements for the SEWRC to approve these prices, second, third and fourth, there is no point in going back... By Friday, if they don't give me the contract, from now on, I want to warn them, they can only be angry with themselves... I will actually find a way to get them with all the powers I have. The fact is, until now, for months, and Mr. Mikov remembers when I asked Mr. Oresharski what he wrote, he told me he hadn't read it... [[BSP LB.]] At the president's when we were together. Obviously, it's not that easy to take, because they refer to commercial secrecy, classified information and had to have special access to it. As soon as I get it, I'll let you know what it says on the subject price, transmission and timing. Thank you for your attention, if you will set me free, and I wish this House every success. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u47	Thank you for your participation in the work, Prime Minister. Colleagues, as it became clear during the Prime Minister's statement from the positions of the various parliamentary groups, even at the Chairman's Council of the BSP left Bulgaria (BSP) was proposed the discussion and voting of the Declaration, whose content I have now provided to the MPs. As this proposal, which has not been properly put to the Rules, we have accepted that it is a point of order which I will now put to the vote............................................................................................. And since not all MPs have its content, I give it to your attention: DECLARATION on the critical situation for the South Stream project Taking into account the current development of the South Stream project and the various problems related to its implementation, assessing the important national importance of the project, which diversifys the natural gas supply routes in Bulgaria, increases our country's role in transporting Russian gas to Europe and contributes to Bulgaria's economic potential by understanding the critical situation for the future of the project following the request of the President of the Russian Federation on 1 December 2014 in Ankara, the National Assembly expressed concern and concern about the Russian Federation's stated intentions to review its participation in the project and redirect it from Bulgarian territory to the territory of the Republic of Turkey. He insists that the Bulgarian government, other state institutions and Bulgarian MEPs in the European Parliament in an active dialogue with the European Commission and Russia should take urgent and decisive action so as not to end the project and the participation of Bulgaria and other European countries in it. Calls on the European Commission to apply the same approach and criteria as to the North Stream and other projects, to respect the interests of the countries through which the South Stream route is intended to pass and to work to increase the European Union's energy capabilities; As a procedural proposal, I would like to draw your attention to voting on the substantive and deliberate vote on this draft declaration. Please, voting mode. Vote 186 MPs: 92 against 16, abstention 78. There are more voices against and abstentions than votes for abstentions. That's 94 votes for 92. At this stage, the proposal is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose a re-vote, as some of my colleagues have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u49	It's a re-vote. 195 MPs voted: 97, 20, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise, excitement, lines and applause from GERB.]] We move on to our program by taking an oath from a representative of the National Assembly. The Central Election Commission on the basis of Art. 1379-NS of 1 December 2014 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, t. Article 6 in conjunction with Article 6 302, para. 1 of the Election Code HAS DECIDED Announcing as a MP from 4. Election District of Veliko Tarnovski, Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev with Egnov............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Quaestors, invite Mr. Stoev to take an oath. [[Part of the MPs from the DPS and BSP LB leave the Chamber.]] Mr. Stoev, repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u50	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u51	Congratulations, Mr. Stoev. Messages: Letter No 452-22-2 of 28 November 2014 by Mr. Lutvi Mestan, Chair of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, stating: I hereby inform you that the MPs of the Party Movement for Rights and Freedoms have decided to exclude from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms of Members of the National Assembly Gunay Husmen Husmen and Musa Cemal Palev at a meeting held on 28 November 2014. Please, on the basis of art. 13, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to order the entry into the special register of the National Assembly of the changes made to the composition of the parliamentary group to be communicated at the next plenary session of the 40th and third National Assembly. Protocol and Decision of 28 November 2014 of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is attached accordingly. There's a letter in there. No 454-00-539 from 1 December 2014 to the President of the National Assembly and to the leadership of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front by the National Representative Mr. Velizar Enchev, stating that as from 1 December 2014 he ceased membership in the Parliamentary Group Patriotic Front due to deep and insurmountable and valuable differences with the leadership of the parliamentary group. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as from 1 December 2014, he became a non-member of a parliamentary group. Reasons are also attached to his application. In Parliamentary Control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for today - Wednesday, 3 December 2014 in the last up to two hours, i.e. 12:00 to 14:00 are ready to participate: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev. Due to participation in pre-planned international meetings in Parliamentary control today, they are not able to participate: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration Rumyana Bachvarova. Due to a commitment outside the country, there is no opportunity for the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Mr Ivaylo Kalfin to participate. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 26 November to 2 December 2014: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importer Peter Slavov. Leading Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer "Iliya Iliev" and group of MPs. Leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importer "Krasimir Karakachanov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance. Supporting the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Municipal Property. Importer "Iliya Iliev" and group of MPs. Leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. Importer "Iliya Iliev" and group of MPs. Leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is yet to be distributed, not to list them, to all the Standing Committees in the National Assembly. Draft budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It will also be discussed by the Health Committee. Draft budget bill for state social security for 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals. The importer is Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. A bill to amend and supplement the Health Act. The importer is Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. Draft Law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A total of 11 acts have been made for this period in the National Assembly. After the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, all drafts and drafts of other acts have been reassigned according to their subject-matter. Orders shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly. The National Assembly is given the opinions adopted by the Economic and Social Council: By my letter, the materials were sent to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, as well as to the Committee on Health. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a final Audit Report No 03-0000-20-13 on the audit of the employment insurance of young people with EU funds under Priority Axis 1 of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" for the period 1 January 2010. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The material is provided to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a report on the problems in the exercise of consumer rights for public services, established in 2013 and 2014 by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The material is provided to the permanent committees whose portfolio is embedded in the report and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Last message: On 1 December 2014, the National Statistical Institute received information containing results of statistical research on the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in November 2014, a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic prices for October 2014. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! DECLARATION on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms The reason for today's declaration of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the stated intention of the government of the quadruple coalition of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front and the ABB to increase dramatically and unprecedented by 67% from 240 to 420 BGN, the minimum amount of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers since the beginning of 2015. It is a strange coincidence that this act of abuse on the pocket of the farmer and tobacco producer started from 2009. In the first budget of the state social security of the government of GERB with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 130 to 240 BGN. As a result of this measure, registered farmers in just one year decreased by 30 thousand, while insured farmers from 50 thousand became 35 thousand, a reduction of about 15 thousand. Even with the start of the management mandate of the four-year coalition of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front and the ABB, the new government is already stirring deeply into the already thinned to the limit pocket of farmers and tobacco producers with nearly 730 BGN more compared to 2014. Here is what the impartial reading of the numbers shows. During the period 2009-2014 with a minimum monthly amount of insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers 240 BGN, the monthly social insurance amounts due are BGN 64,92, plus the monthly amounts due for health insurance. The annual amount due is BGN 973,44, nearly 4 times higher compared to 2008. From the following 2015 in the case of minimum insurance income 420 BGN the amount of monthly social security amounts due is 108.36 BGN, as well as a monthly amount of 33,60 leva. For health insurance, or a total monthly amount of BGN 141,90 and annually for social and health insurance the amount is equal to BGN 1702,80. With the proposed text from the morsel of farmers and tobacco producers annually the government of the quadruple coalition breaks BGN 729,36. more than the previous year. Much of farmers and tobacco producers will likely seek salvation in the grey sector, alas without any social protection. Whether this act of drastic violation of the incomes of farmers and tobacco producers is accidental, or is an expression of deliberate, tendential attitude, is a subject of serious reflection, but the repetition of this action is already a cause for assessment and it cannot be any different from a harsh violation of the bread of these hard and hardworking Bulgarian citizens. There will probably be arguments of the kind that the proposed measure is for financial balancing of the system, but why we want financial stability only from farmers and tobacco producers, provided that the total deficit in the state social security budget is around 5 billion. BGN, and for insurance contributions to receive a minimum pension for insurance service and age of farmers and tobacco producers the required insurance income is about 300 BGN? Against this background is the strange position of social partners in the face of employers and trade unions. Aren't they the ones who have to make efforts to develop sectoral and social schemes, such as a tool to combat precarious jobs, poverty and social exclusion of agricultural workers? Nowadays, social security systems are under enormous pressure, including financial pressure. They face challenges arising from the changing nature of labour, the growth of unemployment, the ageing of the population, the new gender balance of the workforce, migration, free movement and so on. Those working in the sector are victims of short-sighted solutions and long-term financial uncertainty and instability of social security systems. Today, the Agriculture Sector is in a new stage of restructuring and changes that mostly affect workers. The sector is sadly known for its unattractive jobs, low incomes, adverse working conditions, low-qualified and poorly motivated workforce, as well as the seasonal nature of employment, precarious work and poor coverage of social security systems. This has a direct and indirect impact on the social and civil rights of workers in the sector, also poses risks to their and their families' welfare. These changes require a responsible policy, not a particular trendy attitude. The proposed changes relating to direct damage to the bread of farmers and tobacco producers contain discontent, ambiguity and, last but not least, a protest charge. Do not harm the bread of farmers and tobacco producers! The people said, "No one is greater than the bread!" Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I do not see anyone else wishing for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Moving on to: THE SECOND CONVERSATION OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADVISION OF THE LAW ON THE ADD-CLOSURE, No 402-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 November 2014, adopted at the first vote on 19 November 2014. We are moving on to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Since the situational control will begin from 12:00 today, the rest will be from 11:30 to 12:00 until then. Until then, legislative activity will begin the second reading of the bill. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u54	Thank you. Madam President, allow me, before we begin with the second reading of the report, to do a procedure. Please allow: Mrs. Ludmila Petkova and Mr. Krasimir Sivev, Director of the Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Rosen Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of the Revenue Agency at the National Revenue Agency, Mr. Vanyo Tanov, Director of the Customs Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u55	I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 100 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u56	The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act No 402-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 November 2014, adopted on the first vote on 19.11.2014. Project for a second vote. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Value Added Tax Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u57	We vote. They voted 106 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u58	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u59	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on paragraphs 1 to 7 including on the importing report supported by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u60	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 97b: "Instruction for registration in the case of supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out by electronic means Art. 97b. (1) Registration under this law shall be subject to any taxable person not established in the territory of the country and supplying telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically with recipients - non-taxable persons who are established or have a permanent address or usually reside in the country where: 1. is not registered on the basis of Art. 1. 154 or in another Member State for the implementation of a regime outside the Union or of a regime within the Union; 2. is not registered on the basis of art. 96, 97, 98 or art. 100, para. 1 and 3; (2) For the person under para. 1 An obligation shall arise to submit an application for registration no later than the 10th day of the month following the date of the tax event of the first delivery. (3) In cases where the person under para. 1 has submitted an application for registration under art. 154, para. 2 or has applied for the application of a regime within the Union or a regime outside the Union in another Member State and has been refused to register for the application of the relevant regime, and where the person has ceased registration for the application of any of those special schemes, the person shall be required to submit an application for registration no later than the seventh day following the date of receipt of the refusal, respectively, from the date of the first delivery following the cessation of the application of the relevant regime. (4) The first tax period for a person registered on the basis of this Article shall also include the period from the date of the first delivery, including until the date of registration. (5) Person registered on the basis of this Article and for which grounds for compulsory registration under art. 96, 97 and 98 or for registration by choice under art. 100, para. 1 and 3 shall be registered in accordance with the order and within the time limits for compulsory registration or registration by choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u61	Paragraph 8 statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal support, in principle, the text of the importer, in the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission report. Voted 112 MPs: 99, none against abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u62	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 9 to 16 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u63	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote paragraphs 9 to 16 inclusive. Vote 105 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u64	Under § 17 there is a proposal of the People's Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and 2, as the proposal under point 1. Three is withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Chobanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 17 and shall propose the following wording: Seventeen. A new Chapter eighteen is created with art. 152-159i: "Chapter 18" Special arrangements for the taxation of supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services by which recipients are non-taxable Section I General Scope of special schemes Art. 152. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services by which recipients are non-taxable persons who are established, have a permanent address or usually reside in the territory of a Member State where the supplier: 1. is a taxable person not established in the Member State of consumption; and 2. has chosen to register for the application of one of the special regimes under para. 2 in the country or in another Member State. (2) The special arrangements under this Chapter shall be: a regime outside the Union where the service provider under para. 1 is not established within the territory of the European Union and a regime within the Union where the service provider under para. 1 is established within the territory of the European Union. (3) A person registered in another Member State for the application of a regime in the Union which does not have a permanent establishment in the territory of the country shall apply that regime to the supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically, with a place of execution within the territory of the country where recipients are non-taxable persons. (4) A person registered in another Member State for the application of a non-Union regime shall apply that regime for the supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically, with a place of execution within the territory of the country to which recipients are non-taxable persons. (5) A person supplying telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services with a place of execution within the territory of the Party to which the recipients are non-taxable persons and who is not registered for the application of any of the regimes in the country or in another Member State shall not apply the provisions of that Chapter. Deliveries outside the scope of the Union regime carried out by a registered person to implement that regime Art. 153. (1) Person registered on the basis of art. 156 implementing a regime in the Union for supplies with a place of execution on the territory of the country under art. 21, para. 6 including where supplies are made from a permanent establishment in the territory of another Member State, the general rules of that law shall apply to such supplies. (2) Person registered on the basis of art. 156 implementing a regime in the Union shall not apply this supply regime with a place of execution in the territory of another Member State under art. 21, para. 6 where the person has a permanent establishment in that Member State, whether or not the supplies have been made by that establishment. For those supplies, the person shall apply the legislation of the Member State in which his permanent establishment is established. Section II Registration and de-registered for the implementation of a non-Union regime Special registration Art. 154. (1) The right to register under this Section shall have a taxable person for whom the following conditions are simultaneously available: 1. supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out by electronic means with recipients of non-taxable persons who are established or have a permanent address or usually reside in a Member State, including in the country; 2. has not been established in the territory of the European Union; 3. is not registered and there is no obligation to register for the purposes of VAT in the territory of the country on grounds other than art. 97b, or in the territory of another Member State on grounds other than that it provides services under point (c) of the first subparagraph. 1; 4. has not been registered for the application of this special scheme in another Member State; 5. there is no limitation for registration under para. 10. (2) The law under para. 1 shall be exercised by submitting to the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency a request for registration according to a model laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. The application shall be submitted electronically by means of a web-based application created for this purpose on the website of the National Revenue Agency by entering the data through the application. (3) With the application under para. 2 the person shall provide at least the following information: 1. name, postal address, e-mail address, including websites of the person; 2. an identification number for the purposes of the tax registration, if any; 3. an electronic declaration that it is not registered for VAT purposes in a Member State; 4. a bank account of the person in euro; 5. identification numbers from previous registrations of the person implementing a non-Union regime and a Union regime, if any. (4) Within 7 days of receipt of the application under para. 2 The revenue authority shall verify the existence of a basis for registration for the application of the regime outside the Union. Within 7 days of completion of the verification, the revenue body shall issue an act with which it carries out or is motivated to refuse to carry out the registration. The award of the act on the person under para. 1 shall be carried out electronically by electronic communication. (5) The first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of submission of the application under para. 2. (6) An identification number for the purposes of registration for the application of the procedure outside the Union shall be the business identification number under art. 84, para. 3 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code before which the EU sign is placed. (7) The date of registration shall be considered the date of the first delivery when the first delivery of the services under para. 1, t. 1 was carried out before the date under para. 5, provided that the taxable person has submitted an application for registration under para. 2 at the latest by the 10th of the month following the date of the first delivery. (8) If the data are changed to an application submitted under para. 2 the person shall submit an electronic application for an update no later than the 10th of the month following the occurrence of the change. (9) A person registered in another Member State for the application of the regime outside the Union may be registered on the basis of this Article by submitting an electronic application for registration under para. 2 no later than the 10th of the month following the date of the change indicated by the person in the application and notified the change to the other Member State within the same period. In such cases, the date of the change shall be considered as the date of registration under this Article. (10) Limited to registration under the non-Union regime is in force: 1. until 6 months from the date of termination of the application of the regime outside the Union in any Member State where the person has voluntarily withdrawn his registration for the application of that regime; 2. until 6 months from the date of termination of the application of the regime outside the Union in any Member State because of the fact that the person has notified the same person that the supply under para. 1, t. 1; 3. until two years from the date of termination in any Member State of identification of the application of a regime outside the Union or of a regime within the Union due to systematic non-compliance by the person with obligations relating to the application of the regime concerned. (11) In the event of non-compliance with the term under para. Paragraph 9 shall apply. 10, t. 1. Termination of special registration Art. 155. (1) Registration for the application of the regime outside the Union shall be terminated at the initiative of the person where: 1. no longer supply telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services; 2. stop meeting the conditions of art. 154, para. 1; 3. the person chooses not to apply the regime outside the Union. (2) For termination of the registration under para. 1 the person submitted to the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency, an application for de-registered according to a model laid down by the rules for implementing the law. The application shall be submitted electronically by means of a web-based application of the website of the National Revenue Agency through input of the data through the application. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the person shall submit the application for registration no later than the 10th of the month following the month in which the relevant circumstance occurs. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 the person shall submit the application for de-registered at the latest 15 days before the end of the quarter preceding the calendar quarter from which he does not wish to apply the procedure. (5) Within 7 days of the receipt of the application for the registration under para. 2 The revenue authority shall verify the existence of grounds for termination of registration for the application of the non-Union regime. Within 7 days of completion of the verification, the revenue authority shall issue an act with which it carries out or is motivated to refuse to terminate the registration. The award of the act to the person to whom registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out electronically by electronic communication. (6) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the date of termination of the registration for the application of the regime outside the Union shall be the first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of the sending of the electronic communication for the issue of the order for the registration and in the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 3 the date of termination of registration for the application of the regime outside the Union shall be the first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of the submission of the application for registration. (7) Registration for the application of the procedure outside the Union shall be terminated at the initiative of the Revenue Authority by issuing a de-registered act where it is established that the person: 1. has not supplied telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically, eight consecutive tax periods and has not submitted an application for deregistered for the application of the regime; or 2. does not meet the conditions of art. 154, para. 1, or 3. systematically does not comply with the provisions of the regime outside the Union. (8) Systemary failure to comply with the provisions of the regime outside the Union shall exist where: 1. on the basis of Art. 1. 159b, para. 11 of the registered person for the implementation of the procedure are sent by the National Revenue Agency reminder messages for the last three previous tax periods and the statement under art. 159b, para. 4 for each tax period has not been provided within 10 days of the sending of a reminder message; 2. on the basis of art. 159b, para. 11 of the registered person for the application of the regime has been sent by the National Revenue Agency reminder messages for the last three previous tax periods and the full amount of the tax declared for each individual tax period has not been paid by the person within 10 days after sending a reminder message, unless the remaining outstanding amount is less than EUR 100 per tax period; 3. after a request from a revenue body or from a competent tax authority of a Member State of consumption and one month after a subsequent reminder by the National Revenue Agency, the person has not provided the registers under art. 120, para. 3; 4. the registered person for the implementation of the procedure has indicated false information under art. 159b, para. 7 in two or more returns submitted, resulting in a reduction of the tax due in large amounts. (9) In the cases under para. 7 The service of the act to the person on whom registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out electronically by electronic communication. In such cases, the date on which the registration of the person implementing the regime outside the Union is suspended shall be the first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of the communication. (10) Registered on the basis of art. 154 a person may register for this regime in another Member State by submitting an electronic application for de-registered to the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency, according to para. 2 no later than the 10th of the month following the date of change specified by the person. Within the same time limit, the person shall notify the other Member State of the change. In such cases, the date of the change shall be considered as the date of termination of the registration. Section III Registration and registration for the implementation of a Union regime Special registration Art. 156. (1) The right to register for the implementation of the regime in the Union shall have a taxable person registered on the basis of art. Art. 96, 98 or 100, para. 1 or 3 for which the following conditions are simultaneously available: 1. supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out by electronic means with the beneficiaries of a non-taxable person who is established or has a permanent address or usually resides in another Member State where the taxable person does not have a permanent establishment; 2. it is established by its registered office and address of management in the territory of the country or, where it is not established by its registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union, it is established on a permanent establishment in the territory of the country; 3. it is not registered for the application of this regime in another Member State where it is established on a permanent establishment in the territory of the country; 4. there is no limitation for registration under para. 12. (2) The law under para. 1 shall be exercised by submitting to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency an application for registration according to a model laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. The application shall be submitted electronically by way of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code with a qualified electronic signature by means of a web-based application established for this purpose on the website of the National Revenue Agency by entering the data through the application. (3) With the application under para. 2 the person shall provide at least the following information: 1. name, postal address, e-mail addresses, including face websites; 2. a bank account of the person in euro; 3. identification numbers for VAT purposes in other Member States; 4. permanent sites in the territory of other Member States; 5. identification numbers from previous registrations of the person implementing a non-Union regime and a Union regime, if any. (4) Within 7 days of receipt of the application under para. 2 The revenue body shall verify the existence of a basis for registration for the application of the regime in the Union. Within 7 days of completion of the verification, the revenue body shall issue an act with which it carries out or is motivated to refuse to carry out the registration. The award of the act on the person under para. 1 shall be carried out electronically by electronic communication. (5) The first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of submission of the application under para. 2. (6) Identification number for the purposes of registration for the application of the procedure in the Union shall be the identification number under art. 94, para. 2. (7) The date of registration shall be considered the date of the first delivery when the first delivery of the services under para. 1, t. 1 was carried out before the date under para. 5, provided that the taxable person has submitted an application for registration under para. 2 at the latest by the 10th of the month following the date of the first delivery. (8) If the data are changed to an application submitted under para. 2 the person shall submit an electronic application for an update no later than the 10th of the month following the occurrence of the change. (9) Person registered in another Member State for the application of the regime in the Union which is not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union but has established on a permanent establishment both within the territory of the country and within the territory of another Member State if it fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of that Article after the end of two years following the year in which it is registered for the application of the regime in the Union in the other Member State. (10) Person registered in another Member State for the application of the regime in the Union who moves his place of establishment by registered office and address of management in the territory of the country or, where not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union, move his permanent establishment to the territory of the country if he fulfils the conditions of para. 1 may be registered on the basis of this Article. (11) In the cases referred to in para. 9 and 10 for the date of registration under this Article shall be considered the date of the change if the person submits an application for registration under para. 2 no later than the 10th of the month following the occurrence of the change and within the same period the person shall notify the change to the Member State of identification. (12) A restriction to registration under the Union regime shall be in force: 1. until 6 months from the date of termination of the application of the regime in the Union in any Member State where the person has voluntarily refused registration for the application of that regime; 2. until 6 months from the date of termination of the application of the regime in the Union in any Member State, because the person has notified the same person that the supply under para is suspended. 1, t. 1; 3. until two years from the date of termination, in any Member State of identification of the application of a regime outside the Union or of a regime within the Union due to systematic non-compliance by the person with obligations relating to the application of the regime concerned. (13) In case of non-compliance with the requirements of para. Paragraph 11 shall apply. 12, t.1.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u65	Mrs. Stoyanova, you want someone to replace you. Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u66	Termination of special registration. Art. 157. (1) Registration for the application of the regime in the Union shall be terminated at the initiative of the person where: 1. no longer supply telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services; 2. stop meeting the conditions of art. 156, para. 1; 3. the person chooses not to apply the regime in the Union. (2) For termination of the registration under para. 1 the person shall submit to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency an application for de-registered according to a model laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. The application shall be submitted electronically by way of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code with a qualified electronic signature by means of the web-based application created for this purpose on the website of the National Revenue Agency by entering the data through the application. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the person shall submit the application for registration no later than the 10th of the month following the month in which the relevant circumstance occurs. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 the person shall submit the application for de-registered at the latest 15 days before the end of the quarter preceding the calendar quarter from which he does not wish to apply the procedure. (5) Within 7 days of the receipt of the application for the registration under para. 2 The revenue authority shall verify the existence of grounds for termination of registration for the application of the regime in the Union. Within 7 days of completion of the verification, the revenue authority shall issue an act with which it carries out or is motivated to refuse to terminate the registration. The award of the act to the person to whom registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out electronically by electronic communication. (6) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the date of termination of the registration for the application of the regime in the Union shall be the first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of the sending of the electronic communication for the issue of the order for the registration and in the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 3 the date of termination of registration for the application of the regime in the Union shall be the first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of the submission of the application for registration. (7) Registration for the application of the procedure in the Union shall be terminated at the initiative of the Revenue Authority by issuing a de-registered act where it is established that the person: 1. has not supplied telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically, eight consecutive tax periods and has not submitted an application for deregistered for the application of the regime; or 2. does not meet the conditions of art. 156, para. 1, or 3. systematically does not comply with the provisions of the Union regime. (8) Systemary failure to comply with the provisions of the Union regime shall exist where: 1. on the basis of Art. 1. 159b, para. 11 of the registered person for the implementation of the procedure are sent by the National Revenue Agency reminder messages for the last three previous tax periods and the statement under art. 159b, para. 4 for each tax period has not been provided within 10 days of the sending of a reminder message; 2. on the basis of art. 159b, para. 11 of the registered person for the application of the regime has been sent by the National Revenue Agency reminder messages for the last three previous tax periods and the full amount of the tax declared for each individual tax period has not been paid by the person within 10 days after sending a reminder message, unless the remaining outstanding amount is less than EUR 100 per tax period; 3. after a request from a revenue body or from a competent tax authority of a Member State of consumption and one month after a subsequent reminder by the National Revenue Agency, the person has not provided the registers under art. 120, para. 3; 4. the registered person for the implementation of the procedure has indicated false information under art. 159b, para. 7 and 8 in two or more references submitted, resulting in a reduction of the tax due in large amounts. (9) In the cases under para. 7 The service of the act to the person on whom registration for the application of the procedure is suspended shall be carried out electronically by electronic communication. In such cases, the date on which the registration of the person implementing the regime in the Union is suspended shall be the first day of the quarter following the calendar quarter of the communication. (10) Registered on the basis of art. 156 a person who is not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union but has established a permanent establishment both within the territory of the country and within the territory of another Member State may be registered for the application of that regime in the other Member State after the end of two years from the beginning of the year following the year of registration. (11) Registered on the basis of art. 156 a person who moves his place of establishment by registered office and management address in the territory of another Member State or, where he is not established by registered office and address of management in the territory of the European Union, moves his permanent establishment to the territory of another Member State or is established by his registered office and address of management in the territory of another Member State, is obliged to terminate his registration under that Article. (12) In the cases referred to in para. 10 and 11 for the date of termination of registration under this Article shall be considered the date of the change if the person applies for de-registered under para. 2 no later than the 10th of the month following the occurrence of the change and within the same period the person notified the change to the other Member State. Section IV Provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services Place of delivery Art. 158. The place of execution of supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services by a person registered under that Chapter shall be determined by art. 21, para. 6. Tax base, date of occurrence of tax event, requirement and charge of tax Art. 159. (1) The tax base, the date of occurrence of the tax event and the charge for the supply of services under this Chapter shall be determined by the law of the Member State of consumption. (2) A person registered for the application of the regime outside the Union or the regime in the Union shall be obliged to charge the required value added tax for delivery carried out under the relevant regime by: 1. include the amount of tax when determining the result of the reference declaration for the application of a special scheme for the relevant tax period in the Member State of identification; 2. indicate the information on the delivery in the electronic register that it conducts under the legislation of the Member State of identification. Tax rate and documentation of supplies Art. 159a. (1) The tax rate of supply under this Chapter shall be the applicable rate in the Member State of consumption. (2) For the documentation of the supply of services under this Chapter, the legislation of the Member State of consumption shall apply. Tax period, reference declaration for the application of a special scheme and the application of the tax Art. 159b. (1) The tax period for persons registered under this Chapter shall be three months and shall coincide with the calendar quarter. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 154, para. 7 and under art. 156, para. 7 the first tax period covers the time from the date of the first delivery to the end of the calendar quarter. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 154, para. 9 and under art. 156, para. 11 the first tax period covers the period from the date of change to the last day including the calendar quarter during which the change occurred. Accordingly, under art. 155, para. 10 and under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 12, the last tax period covers the period from the first day of the calendar quarter during which the change took place until the date of the change including. (4) Registered on the basis of art. Article 154 or art. For each tax period within the 20th day of the month following the tax period, whether or not it has been delivered during the period, a person shall submit a reference declaration for the application of a special scheme under a model set out in the Rules for the application of the law. When the 20th of the month is a non-existent day, art. 22, para. 7 of the DPC does not apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u67	Read the full name of the laws and codes, as they are thus entered into the shorthand and respectively in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u68	Thank you. When the 20th of the month is a non-existent day, art. 22, para. 7 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code does not apply. The reference referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 shall be submitted to the competent territorial directorate of Section II or Section III of this Chapter by electronic means by means of a web-based application established for this purpose on the website of the National Revenue Agency. The registered persons on the basis of art. 156 persons shall submit the declaration electronically with a qualified electronic signature under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code by entering the data through the application or by submitting a previously generated file. The form, structure and validation scheme of the file shall be validated by order of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. (6) The competent territorial directorate of Section II or Section III of this Chapter shall provide the person by electronic means with a unique entry number of each reference declaration submitted under para. 4 as in the case of corrections under art. 159e provides the input number of the initial reference declaration submitted. (7) In reference to the statement under para. 4 indicate the person's identification number for the purposes of applying the relevant regime and, separately for each Member State of consumption where the person does not have a permanent establishment, indicate the applicable tax rates, the total amount of the tax bases of the supplies to which the regime applies and for which the value added tax at the relevant rates has become required, the total amount of tax due at the relevant rates and the total amount of tax due separately for each Member State for the relevant tax period. (8) Registered on the basis of art. For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, a Member State may require a Member State to provide the information referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article to provide the information referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 7 for deliveries made by those permanent establishments during the relevant tax period for which the value added tax at the applicable rates has become required and has a place of execution in the territory of a Member State of consumption where the person does not have a permanent establishment. (9) The values under para. 7 and 8 shall be indicated in euro. For deliveries in other currencies, the exchange rate shall be used on the last day of the tax period, applying the exchange rate published by the European Central Bank on that day, or if there is no such rate published on that day, the rate published on the following day shall apply. (10) Registered on the basis of art. Article 154 or art. 156 person within the deadline for submission of the statement under para. 4 is obliged to submit the total amount of value added tax required for the relevant tax period to the state budget at the account of the National Revenue Agency in euro. The tax shall be deemed to be paid on the date on which the amount entered into the account. When paying the amount, the person shall indicate the input number of the reference statement concerned. (11) When registered on the basis of art. Article 154 or art. 156 a person has not submitted the statement under para. 4 or has not paid the tax under para. 10, or a lower tax, the National Revenue Agency shall send to the person a reminder message electronically on the 10th day following the day on which the reference declaration was to be lodged, respectively, the tax. The subsequent actions for determining and collecting the tax after sending the reminder message by the National Revenue Agency shall be carried out by the competent tax authorities of the Member State of consumption. (12) In the cases referred to in para. 11 The statement shall be submitted in accordance with para. 5 until the end of three years from the date on which it was to be submitted. After that period of reference, the declaration shall be submitted to the Member State of consumption concerned. (13) After taking action under the order of para. 11 of the competent tax authorities of another Member State of consumption the tax on the relevant tax period due for that Member State shall be paid at the account of that Member State. (14) In the reference to the statement under para. 4 shall not indicate supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically if they are exempted under the laws of the Member State of consumption, as well as supplies outside the scope of the Union regime under art. 153. Tax credit Art. 159c. (1) Person registered on the basis of art. 154 or registered in another Member State for the application of the regime outside the Union, is entitled to reimbursement of value added tax for received supplies of goods and/or services with a place of execution on the territory of the country in respect of supplies of telecommunications services, broadcasting services or services carried out electronically by recipients of which are non-taxable persons, pursuant to art. 81, para. 2 intended for persons not established in the territory of the European Union. (2) Registered on the basis of art. 156 a person has the right to deduct a tax credit under the general rules of the law on received supplies of goods and/or services with a place of execution on the territory of the country. (3) Person registered in another Member State for the application of the regime in the Union, if registered on the basis of art. 96, 97, 98 or art. 100, para. 1 and 3 is entitled to deduct tax credit under the general rules of the law on received supplies of goods and/or services with a place of execution in the territory of the country. (4) Person registered in another Member State for the application of the regime in the Union, if not registered on the basis of art. 96, 97, 98 or art. 100, para. 1 and 3 shall be entitled to a refund in accordance with Article 3. 81, para. 2 intended for persons not established in the Member State of recovery but established in the territory of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u69	We'll interrupt the second reading of the bill. Thirty minutes of rest until 12:00, when the blitz control begins. If it ends before his scheduled time, which is until 2 pm, we will continue further with the second reading of the draft discussion at the moment. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u70	We continue with the control assigned to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers for the first Wednesday of each month. Before that, a message. An application has been made by Ms Mariana Radeva Boyadzhieva, Member of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, informing me that on 28 November 2014 due to a factual error she was elected Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Science. On the basis of art. 22, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure it asks to be regarded as the Vice-President of this Commission and to remain in force the decision to elect it as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. I am explaining to the Members of the National Assembly: at the moment when the proposals by the parliamentary groups were made, it is not in line with the terms of our Rules that each committee could have up to four Vice-Presidents and in this Commission after a decision of the National Assembly it turned out that they were five. I thank Mrs. Boyadjieva for this application. I'm recalling the order of parliamentary control on Wednesday. Each parliamentary group shall have the opportunity to participate in it with two questions asked to persons entitled to participate in that control. As I informed you earlier today, due to prior international commitments, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova and Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin cannot participate in this control. This is Mr. Tomislav Donchev. We are also expecting Mrs. Kuneva, who has stated that she will participate in the control. In order not to waste any more time, I suggest we start with the questions to Mr. Donchev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, Mrs. Sylvia Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u71	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question, which I am asking as a Member of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, but I think it also interests all other colleagues, is related to the new programming period 2014-2020. It is obvious that we have already actually lost the first year of this programming period of 2014. It is also important that I think to everyone that the funds from the operational programmes and the funds from European solidarity are extremely important for both municipalities and businesses. In this sense, my question is: when do you think that the use of operational programmes from the new programming period will be effective and will 2015 be zero for these programmes?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev has three minutes to respond. You, Mrs. Hubenova, will be able to reply within two minutes and, respectively, two minutes for the duplicate from the responsible Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u73	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Hubenova! The issue is extremely timely and important given that EU funds, depending on the rate of payments on average per year, could move between 5 and 10% of the public spending of the country in general and on average over 70% of the entire investment resource of the state. So when not the next one starts, but the current programming period, because it is 2014 - 2020, is an extremely important and important issue. In the little time I have, I will try to give you an answer in maximum detail. After today's decision of the Council of Ministers, Bulgaria has actually presented to the European Commission all operational programmes for approval. Currently we have approved one Operational Program In the short time we had, we tried to clear up all the uncleared issues of both technical and political level, with colleagues from the European Commission and will make every effort from now on to approve the programmes as soon as possible. It's hard for me to make a detailed prediction. However, it should be borne in mind that those operational programmes which are not approved by the end of the year are subject to approval only June of the following year, which is a dangerous detail, given the danger that the first half of the year will turn out to be without payment at all. I count at least half of the operational programmes to be approved by spring of this year. The ambition is to have payments, open schemes in the first half of 2015. An alternative scenario has been developed, even if the approval of an operational programme is delayed, some of the schemes to be prefinanced by budget funds. This is a borrowing operation, i.e. the net cost of Budget 2015 would be zero because the funds spent on the relevant scheme are subject to reimbursement in the second half of the European Commission. Another important detail before we have payments is naturally an approved partnership agreement, approved operational programmes. An extremely important detail is the accreditation of the managing authorities. I sincerely hope in the first months of In 2015, judging from the level of preparation, I can give accreditation to all the managing authorities because I am responsible for this procedure. And one last detail in addition to the operational programmes, although with the "Rural Development Policy" the things are more complicated. There is still a longer list of topics and problems that need to be negotiated with the European Commission, efforts are also....................... for rural development................ to be approved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u74	Here's a line for you, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for the good news that all the operational programs that will be submitted for approval are already ready, because we all knew that so far only the Operational Programme is approved and that the Environment was also ready for approval. However, it is curious to me why we did not learn our lessons from the first programming period and what is the reason for this delay? Only on operational programs should we get 16 billion. euros that were agreed at the time of GERB's first government, when you were also Minister for European Funds. What has taken a year and a half to do nothing, or if it is done, to make it so that it is not appreciated by the European Commission and the programmes are yet to be approved?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u76	Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u77	Dear Mrs. Hubenova, in the name of the correct political tone for which we are all trying to bring him into this National Assembly, I will not give personal reproaches either to political forces or to political figures. The fact is that the delay has Bulgarian offices as well. Of course, some of the reasons are related to the European Commission's disagreement with some of the Bulgarian proposals. This does not mean that we automatically agree to everything that is requested by colleagues from Brussels. There are topics on which a dispute is ongoing and I can mark them.. how exactly investment in the water sector is happening. Although the Operational Programme is already in place for approval, we are still arguing at policy level, this does not mean a party dispute, how exactly will investments flow in the sector of drivers and in particular who will be the beneficiary of whether the companies, or municipalities, insofar as the European Commission insists that these companies be the water companies, and my thesis is that there is no way these projects will not involve local authorities. Because of such unopened questions, the approval of the operational programs has been delayed. But we have a chance, as long as the 2007 programming period 2013 really started with two lost years, this time we have a chance that the lost year is only one. A faster start means a closer infusion of money into infrastructure and economics, and most of all means that the last years of the programming period will not race rabidly, competing with the rule of N+3s and the risk of losing funding. I sincerely hope we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u79	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! The reason for my question is Mrs. Kuneva's statement for the conference "Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment: Perspectives for the Small and Medium Business of Bulgaria" organized by the American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria. The media gave the following accents from your speech, Mrs. Kuneva: "Bulgaria needs the agreement"; "Kuneva with flattering support for the agreement"; "Kuneva strongly supported the agreement and even insisted that the Bulgarian people be convinced of the benefits from him. On 10 November, the other Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin at a conference organised by sound Bulgarians, said, quote: "In his current form the agreement is unacceptable for the European Union and Bulgaria. It would lead to serious social and economic problems. There is serious resistance in Europe against secret negotiations and dangerous clauses. This disagreement gives me reason to hope that your position, Mrs. Kuneva, is not the position of the Bulgarian government. Some of your claims are a bit of a bummer, and I'm a bit of an outrage. You specified at the conference that the agreement would give 119 billion benefits, but you cannot fail to know that there are serious researches whose results show a negative consequence...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u80	Please ask the question, ten seconds left in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u81	My question is, Mrs. Kuneva: why do you speak this way and defend the agreement in this way; why do you put the public opinion of Bulgaria to sleep and to whom, after all, serve this position when such a serious debate is taking place in Europe?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u83	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam President! Mr. Bojinov, you can be absolutely calm and you would have been calm earlier if you had asked for my speech. I would have given it to you with great pleasure. You obviously haven't read it. You prefer to be selective about what the media, probably not all, have decided. I can inform you because I follow the so-called "clip" I can list you with dozens that are positive and which are absolutely correct. Of course, I respect everyone's fears, yours too. During my speech, I focused on several of the worst concerns of European and Bulgarian citizens. Let me tell you, too. Genetically modified organisms - no, Europe and Bulgaria absolutely do not accept genetically modified organisms as part of the trade agreement - the basis for free trade. We have a very clear policy in Europe, I myself have repeatedly spoken in this direction and each country will retain its sovereignty when it comes to the admission of genetically modified organisms into its production. Secondly, I paid particular attention to a topic such as the ACTA, which is absolutely over because the European Parliament rejected the ACTA agreement. It was wrongly attributed and joined together to the trade agreement in the case of which you spoke. Then I paid particular attention to social protection, which we are absolutely convinced that we must follow the European model, and I have defended it in a vague way. In this regard, Mr. Kalfin and I have, so to speak, a complete coverage of the diagnosis. High safety standards. I have protected them as a commissioner and from these safety standards in no way in European or in Bulgarian terms we would give way. As they say, I have serious arguments from my own practice both in the European Commission and in Bulgaria. A rational dialogue is needed for the agreement, and that is what I said, and indeed it is. This rational dialogue will be conducted in Bulgaria, will be conducted in the European Union and nothing will be done against the will of Bulgarian citizens and against the will of Bulgarian representatives in the Council. We are an equal participant among all the other countries so that the trade agreement can happen. Yes, it is good, we want to trade, Europe wants to trade with a special emphasis on protecting small and medium-sized enterprises. Probably this is a random inaccurateness, but the organizer of the event was the Italian Presidency. Please keep that in mind. Europe will not give up its standard of social protection for its workers, nor will it give up the way in which disputes will be resolved, which was also part of my speech at the time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would be delighted to provide it to you, as well as what other media have reported on this occasion. Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u84	You'll be able to get a douche. Mr. Bojinov, I remind you of the editorial of art. 104 that answers up-to-date oral questions relating to the government's common policy and not to comment on separate speeches by some of the cabinet members. Keep that in mind in your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u85	You have missed, Madam President, my hope that what Mrs. Kuneva is saying is not government policy. So your note is inappropriate. Mrs. Kuneva, what you have done as an answer concerns the removal of the so-called non-cost barriers to trade. If Europe stands by this position, which I would support, there will be no agreement, because this is the core of the claims of transnational companies. Secondly, you missed here the most sensitive question about arbitration. You cannot fail to know that the German Federation of Medium Business rejected the agreement precisely because of the arbitration mechanism under which corporations will be able to sue the states. And how did you reassure the Bulgarian society in this speech you will give me?! I quote: Bulgaria has its own internal tasks, i.e. to reform the Bulgarian judiciary in order for everyone to be calm. "Mrs. Kuneva, this is called eclectic: when you are calming about something else that has nothing to do with the first thing. Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that the Bulgarian society is too divided, too opposed and it cannot broadcast from the various parties a corps of nationally responsible politicians to protect the Bulgarian interests and to give good to the Bulgarian people. Until the people have overcome this problem, the political elite cannot solve this problem. Today you saw what the vote for South Stream was...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u86	You're way off topic. I'm warning you, if you continue, I'll interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u87	The Transatlantic Agreement is no less important, Madam President. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Don't use the procedure to run away from the responsibilities you have like... [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u88	You're systematically breaking the rules, Mr. Bojinov. I'll take your word for it. Mrs. Kuneva, you have an opportunity for a duplicate in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u89	I'll be shorter. I'm glad you actually read the speech. I'll post it on my page so that everyone can do it. Mr. Bojinov, with all due respect, you're wrong. I explicitly said, including now in my reply, that I have touched on the issue of international arbitration and it is clear what Bulgaria supports and what Europe supports. No, we don't accept what our American partners are offering, and I made that clear. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] I have said this clearly, but I cannot not go back and tell you all of you, honourable Members of the National Assembly that I will return to the question of the Bulgarian judicial reform on every occasion and on every public appearance. I used that there are investors there to say that we are taking the whole House seriously, the whole government, take the Bulgarian judicial reform seriously. Gentlemen, I will be in all the parliamentary groups very soon to ask for your support for the Judicial Reform Strategy. I do not miss any reason to say that we are extremely serious about this issue and when I have 200 investors in front of me, I cannot allow myself not to protect the interest of Bulgaria, which is for more investments. As for whether or not there will be an agreement, without these controversial issues being resolved, we will see, we are part of the negotiation process. I want to assure you that I have no disagreement with Mr. Kalfin and with the attitude of the entire government on this matter. The Bulgarian position is united, please keep it that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u91	Madam President, Vice-Presidents! Mr. Donchev, allow me to congratulate you with the good news for the approval of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" and to thank the last two ministers of labour and social policy who have worked on it. We know that these are the first programs, Mr. Donchev, for each member state that the European Commission approves because of their social importance for the labour market, and not least for the fight against the scourge of youth unemployment. I have a very specific question which is related to a key tool for the European funds in Bulgaria for the next programming period, namely the Information System for the Management and Monitoring of the Structural Instruments of the European Union in Bulgaria or the so-called ISU. Is ISN 2020 functional and, if not, at what stage is its development? Is the design reflected in the lessons and errors of Isun 2007 - 2014? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to thank my colleague for the extremely essential issue, it may go little or much for technical, but the ISU system or the electronic brain of European money management processes is actually one of the conditions to start receiving reimbursement from the European Commission. We can make payments in Bulgaria, we can even use advance, but the reimbursement of the money is obtained when we have a functioning ISN. No, Isun 2020 is not ready. It's being developed right now. That's the bad news. The good news is that given the fact that it is currently being developed, there is an opportunity in its very functionality to reflect all the lessons learned by ISU, which was used during the programming period 2007-2013. There are many details that will be changed. A particular accent here has two modules. First of all, the possibility of electronic submission of documents This goes through a complete analysis of the business processes of what the beneficiary does as an action, what the managing authority does, so that the very logic of managing the processes in the electronic system is consistent with the ambition to make the rules simpler. I'm counting on it in the middle of next year, hopefully I'm not being overly optimistic, but it's software, and it's not standard, but one that's being developed according to the specific needs of the client that we have a functioning system. I missed in my exhibition to add one more priority to the present we had one gap, the operational programs were all part of ISU, investment measures under the Rural Development Programme, as well as the Fishery Programme had separate electronic tools. The ambition is at least the investment measures of the other two financial instruments - the Rural Program and the Fishery Program - to also be part of the ISU system or at least to be subject to absolute identical logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u94	Here's a line, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u95	Mr. Donchev, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Allow me to disagree with one part of the European Commission, but also with the meeting of the evaluation committees, not only with regard to the verification of costs, what is really important for their recovery by the European Commission. Do you see the possibility of launching schemes under the Operational Programme for Human Resources Development, the one that is important without meeting the evaluation committees? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u96	Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u97	We've got a mistake. I hope it's not in communication. I never claimed that Isun was involved in verification. On the contrary, a mandatory part of the process is each step, evaluation, conclusion of a contract, making a payment to be reflected in the system. I remind you that, within the meaning of both the old and the new regulation, non-compliance with this requirement can lead to suspension of funds, an example control body as a certification body in Bulgaria has the right to suspend funding under the specific financial instrument. Is it without Isun 2020 working just to point out, because we are still talking about the responsibility that the lack of such Isun is not my fault at the moment, is not an obstacle to the opening of schemes, to the conclusion of contracts? The only thing that cannot be done without a functioning electronic system is reimbursement, i.e. reimbursement by the European Commission. There is no problem with payments in the country, there is no problem using the modest advance payments Bulgaria receives at the beginning of this programming period, with which we have no dispute that the earlier we have a functioning similar system, the more order and clarity there will be in the system for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u98	Colleagues from the Reformation Block Group are on the move. Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u99	Dear Madam President, dear Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mr. Tomislav Donchev. I don't know if it's technical, I don't know if it's related to common policies, and if you can't answer me, I'll put it in writing to the ministry. My question is related to the sector "Waters" in the new programming period: where have we reached with the procedures for the pre-investment studies or pre-projects that are based on the general plans in the areas that should have already been completed? I don't even know who's cooking them, probably MRD. What is the readiness and your forecast for the launch of procedures under the Public Procurement Act and their completion accordingly, although under our law a Lord can give an estimate of when they would graduate?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Markov. For an answer, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not know if I will be able to give an answer with the necessary level of detail, but in order to start investments in the sector "Waters" using funds from the Operational Programme "Environment" for the next programming period, several conditions need to be met. First of all, we need to have an approved Operational Programme. We let her go a week ago for approval, we still don't have one. In addition, there are two additional conditions that are set by the European Commission to comply with the regional and not local logic of the entire water supply and sewerage system, which is part of the plans you have mentioned. I admit that I cannot fill you with detailed information about each of the services, orders, because some of these activities are taken out, that is, they are not done by the administration of the ministries. I'm sorry, as much as I remember everything, I really can't remember any public procurement at what stage of execution it is. The second question is to specify who will be an investor in the sector of Waters. I just mentioned it. An issue on which, I admit, we still do not agree with our colleagues from Brussels. The Commission's categorical insistence is to be a beneficiary of water companies due to the fact that a large part of the technical expertise is there, an argument with which I agree. Thanks to the fact that in the general case, water companies cover a much larger water supply area, not at municipality level, but in the general case at district level. As I mentioned earlier, the European Commission's logic is that these investments must be thought and made on a much larger scale. I agree with this logic, but here we cannot quite suspend the commitment of local authorities for several reasons: a large part of the expertise relating to project management, including as far as there is, and I argue that there is expertise related to the management of the extremely problematic sector of public procurement, is there. It's more like local law enforcement. Therefore, the Bulgarian position is that we should combine the expertise of the water companies with regard to the network and expertise of the local authorities related to project management and use this capacity together in the next programming period. Of course, by commenting on the subject, there is no way to ignore such an extremely important detail, although it is a detail, especially the powers of local authorities under the Law on Construction of the territory. The truth is that without involving local authorities in a project related to rehabilitation of the water infrastructure, it simply cannot happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u102	The line, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u103	I understand from your answer you keep mentioning the subject of which beneficiary and I absolutely support your position that this cannot be those associations that are not working, nor the water companies. Indeed, it must remain the same, despite the dissatisfaction of the European Commission with the current programming periods. In this regard, we think exactly the same. The question I asked was related to my concern that we should not be late and that we should not again have a proper project readiness when the time came for the approval of the programme and the real absorption of the money, precisely because of this notorious Public Procurement Act, precisely because it is very difficult to make the technical conditions in such a difficult procedure as the pups are. You know that we are working on the English system after general plans there are pips that need to integrate investment design afterwards. I don't think it's a detail. I think it is very important, and that is why my request is that this process be coordinated and closely monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u104	Would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u105	The process is coordinated, carefully monitored and has the highest priority. As long as we are waiting for the approval of this whole stunt document here, I am not talking about just one document, there is a real risk that investment in the water sector will be postponed by one or two years of something that we do not want to allow. Because there are projects, some of which even phased out of this programming period to a very high degree of technical maturity, for which the ambition is to start next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u106	It's the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Bayraktarov will ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u107	Madam President, Vice Prime Minister and Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! My question will be addressed to the two deputy prime ministers, they will decide who is more prepared on it. The problems with the scandalous commemorations on which Bulgaria is threatened by the European Union for imposing a sanction for illegal State aid have not yet been quieted down. It is in this regard that after Prime Minister Oresharski stopped the implementation of the South Stream, something less scandalous happened a few weeks later. The former Minister of Regional Development Desislava Terzieva signed on 31 July 2014. Building permit No 49 at the reception terminal Pasha Dere, compressor station Varna, and road that will lead to it. The three sites are part of the South Stream project. The permit, as you understand it, has been issued after everything in South Stream has been stopped. A week before this permit was issued, however, former Minister of Agriculture Grekov signed a contract with the company Asparuhovo, and in addition the status of these lands has changed. The scandalous thing is that the land, which, so to say, has already been given an opportunity to build on it by changing the status, has been sold at a price several times lower than the market price. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u108	Please ask the question, it's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u109	My question is: will Bulgaria suffer once again sanctions and damages for illegal State aid and how you will approach the protection of state and public interest, as according to the assessment the losses for the state are over 80 million. lv.? And I ask you, if you have the opportunity, to provide us with the contract to build a South Stream if you find this contract at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u110	In this procedure this will not happen, Mr. Bajraktarov you will demand it in another order. We're listening to your answer, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u111	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the issue is related to the most recent topic of the last two days, which was also discussed in Parliament this morning. Just for the record, no matter what the political decision is, even if someone has frozen or stopped the project, this does not mean automatic termination of all procedures that run in the relevant ministries. Even with a date yesterday or two days ago, a number of procedures are under way at the Ministry of Culture and at the Ministry of Transport and at the Ministry of Regional Development and at the Ministry of Energy. Of course, a question of extremely serious coordination and legal expertise is what is done with all these procedures. As a matter of fact, in most cases, the ministers, following the letter of the law, have no other move and no other right but to proceed on the documents in the way in which they must proceed. It doesn't matter what the political situation with the project is. It's just a preface. I admit I don't know the case you quoted. To be clear, including by commenting on the parliamentary platform, I would like to get acquainted with specific data and specific documents that are not in front of me right now. But what you are saying sounds really worrying and I am making a commitment, first of all, that these documents that are available in the administration be provided to you, as well as to me and colleagues to get acquainted with them, and if follow-up is needed on our part, they should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u112	The line is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u113	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My line is related to one thanks!...... if you do all this. However, I will also try to help you in my reply that the Patriotic Front has brought a case to the Supreme Administrative Court in this case and through it we have received a document - an opinion of the Council of Ministers during the time of Prime Minister Bliznashki, which categorically states that public and civil interest is not protected. I'm really asking you to check all this stuff out. I will also issue you a written question so that we can protect the interest of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u114	Thank you. Can you use the hole? No. The group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is next. There's no question from there. Come on in. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u115	Madam President, colleagues! Mrs. Kuneva, we know that in recent years in the security services and in the Ministry of Interior billions of levs have been poured out. At the same time, in the number of police officers per capita, Bulgaria ranks eighth in the world. I'm not making this up, that's what the Bloomberg Agency says. In recent years we have seen a complete genocide against Bulgarian citizens, mainly in rural areas, where gypsy gangs literally rob, kill, rape and abuse our fathers, grandparents. Every day we witness another brazen gypsy murder. We at Ataka even created a book in which we describe all the brutal killings of the gypsy plague in the villages. We see that it has come to Bulgarian citizens already to pay out of their pocket to protect themselves in order to protect their lives while Bulgaria is 8th place in the world in number of police officers. A number of villages have already hired private guards to protect them from the gypsy raids and murders. In this regard, Mrs. Kuneva, I would like to ask you as a power deputy prime minister: what actions will you take to stop this farce once, the Bulgarian citizen to pay taxes that go to the budget, to the Ministry of Interior, and, secondly, to pay for private security to protect their property and life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u116	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u117	Thank you. Since this is the first time that I am in the Chamber to answer your questions, first of all, to thank you for having them; and secondly, to clarify my role as Deputy Prime Minister. I will always be here to answer your questions, including those related to the departments that I coordinate. However, I would like to give a very clear signal that I do not seize the official competence of any of the ministers of either the Minister of Interior or the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the State Agency for Refugees or the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad and so on. That is, if you see the Ministry of Interior Act, you will see that it continues to be the same. Of course, I will support politically all efforts and opportunities for coordination, but let me tell you that the entire team of the Council of Ministers, including Minister Vuchkov, are ready to answer your questions in detail and to come to committee. You are obviously asking me a more general political question, given my coordination functions, and I will answer you anyway. You're right, there's uncertainty in the country. I wouldn't color it ethnically. I wouldn't say that crime has to have only Roma origins. However, I understand that security will be more and more a question in the coming months, including refugee issues. I hope that at some point I will be able to get a question or come to the committee specifically to talk about it with you. I'm saying this because at the moment the Ministry of Interior is very heavily involved with the security of our borders. Otherwise, the security issue that I discussed with Minister Vuchkov suggests the use of many technical means, cameras, video surveillance, which will, to some extent, reduce the need for living power. Politically, I support the idea of having a local police officer, recognizable in every settlement, the so-called municipal police officer, who has functions related to assigning tasks by local authorities. I think we could talk about this with you, with all the parliamentarians, along with the Interior Minister, and find the best formula for a really restrictive budget what we can do with the existing staff of the Ministry of Interior. I say again that the borders and border police are part of their very strong and important commitments at the moment. I suggest that, if you want, we do together with the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, whose chairman Mr. Zelenogorski is mayor with great experience, a joint meeting and see how we could propose the best solution model.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u118	The line, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u119	Mrs. Kuneva, from the words I have heard from you, I understand that the post of deputy prime minister is absolutely unnecessary. In fact, what are you telling me about what the Ministry of Interior should do, and what about your position as deputy prime minister? Absolutely unnecessary! Let's remember that just a few months ago, when the gendarmes were sent to these villages, the murders and the thefts fell dramatically. Now the gendarmerie's gone, they pulled her out and the thefts and the murders continue. They're moving on! Yes, the state border must be guarded by the illegal aliens, but I cannot agree with you that there are not enough policemen to guard the health and life of the Bulgarians. If you don't have one, hire one if these aren't enough for you. Do you understand the absurdity we're going through?! You're talking about a budget cut by the Ministry of Interior. Do you understand that people are currently being killed for 5 or 10 leva?! We see him every day, and every single one of us sees that. We can't just say: they protect the border, and in the villages to kill them and steal them, in the village of Bear and everywhere else, to kill people. If there is no money, step out of the madness of the neoliberal economic model, listen to us from the Ataka and let the state intervene directly in the economy. To build state enterprises and the state to have money to support the Ministry of Interior and everything else. It's simple and simple. [[Laughter and single applause from the parliamentary groups of GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u120	Go to the village bear, because you haven't been there in a while.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u121	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u122	Mr. Todorov, one thing I will certainly not allow and that is to underestimate the ministers that I coordinate. I mean, if you're trying to tell me that because of me, the function of Home Secretary is unnecessary, it won't work.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u123	Yours is the post.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u124	On how to distribute the funds, you have made free writings, with all due respect to your rights. Wherever there is a need for an enhanced police presence, there will be one. I have offered you some concrete steps that you, as politicians, should take if you want, of course. I see nothing wrong with getting together with a committee that is responsible for how residents feel in every single locality, the committee is at its last place here in Parliament, but you didn't want to comment on it at all. The fact is that I have proposed to come along with the Minister of Interior and to listen to your speeches by a special committee, but this also has no consequences. That is, either we are making a policy through the National Assembly, which I very much hope for, and you are controlling how the executive government follows this policy, or we are talking about things that obviously cannot happen to the Panacea, which will create a state economy that will root out crime in the country. So let me continue to take you seriously, personally, as well as your parliamentary group, as able to make meaningful proposals. Thank you. [[Unique shouts "Bravo!" and applause by GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. From the ABB group?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u126	Madam President of the National Assembly, Vice-Presidents of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In the last ten years, Bulgaria has been a member of NATO, our military policy has seen a strong neglect of the country's defence capabilities in their national dimension and a strengthening and distortion of public awareness in the direction of the collective security system. My question to Mrs. Kuneva is related, I would say, with the alarming state of the Bulgarian Army today and on the occasion of the forthcoming adoption of Budget 2015. I'm dividing my question into two parts according to time. First, is it possible for our government in the coming days to cease or ban any release and reduction of personnel from the Bulgarian Army's military units, their tactical and operational headquarters, as well as to stabilise the social status of servicemen in terms of salaries, retirement and security? The second issue concerns the budget and its forthcoming adoption at first reading. Is our government able to accept a ratio of 1.5 of the gross domestic defence product, although our President and his Defence Minister in Newport guaranteed these requirements to the allies; and/or to release the Ministry of Defence in terms of its revenue, realized by selling movable and immovable property to enter the Ministry's budget; or to shorten international missions, including in Afghanistan, which is unacceptable for the allies; and to shrink 55 targets for Bulgaria's abilities? This is my question............... our government is thinking in this direction.... to reform and develop the budget between the two readings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u127	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u128	Dear Mr. Mihov, I understand your concerns. It's always about budget. You will be able to participate directly in the support of the budget that the government is proposing, and I assume that you will be very active in your speeches regarding its defence-related part. We have signed an agreement in which your parliamentary formation is also involved, in which we do not foresee a reduction of the Bulgarian army. Of course, the goal is to fulfill all our alliance commitments. I hope we get a chance to do this. In addition, in the discussions of the budget, and yet we hope that the implementation of the revenue section will prove such a pace that where there is a possibility, it will be supplemented further. I absolutely share with you, not just because I am a coordinating Deputy Prime Minister, but I really believe that I believe that the Bulgarian Army has its weight, importance and exceptional commitment here on our territory. Besides, it is part of the prestige Bulgaria should keep out. I'm sure we can work together to do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u129	The line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u130	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am pleased with this answer because, in fact, these days, with your speech and guarantees, the words of live meat are closed. But in any case, I would like to share that the trends in the Land Forces to lose their fighting ability continue, in the Air Force not to guarantee air sovereignty, and our Navy of one serious force in the Black Sea to become a coast guard, are important. We have very well started with you the dialogue for which I thank you, but it is not only from this tribune and in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u131	A hole? You won't use it. On behalf of non-members in parliamentary groups, MPs Mr. Velizar Enchev has asked for the opportunity to develop his own question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u132	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! My question is to Mrs. Meglena Kuneva as Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, yesterday you attended a very important conference: the Transatlantic agreement and the small and medium-sized business and made a statement that I think needs a reaction immediately, and that is from the representatives of the small and medium-sized business in Bulgaria, because the Transatlantic agreement in its current form, as we know it from separate documents that have come out of the European Commission, in its current form and its current frameworks are actually directed against the small and medium-sized business in the European Union, and not to mention such countries as Bulgaria. You said yesterday at this conference that Bulgaria needs the Transatlantic Agreement because of, firstly, creating new jobs, and, secondly, to stimulate the economy. On this occasion, I immediately ask you the question: you know, and you should know as recently as a Bulgarian commissioner that high-ranking representatives of the European Union have admitted that the Transatlantic trade and investment partnership will certainly cause new unemployment, as employment rules will align with those in the United States of America, where labour standards and trade unions' rights are much lower. I immediately give you an example of the North American NAFTA Free Trade Agreement between the United States, Canada and Mexico within a year has led to a loss of one million jobs in the United States of America. Secondly, the biggest threat of this agreement in its current frameworks, not if it is edited, is the impact on democracy and, I would say, on trade union rights, as the main objective of the agreement...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u133	Please ask the question, the time of two minutes is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u134	...is a settlement of disputes between a country and an investor where the investor will be able to sue the state. This is also not in favor of small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u135	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u136	Mr. Enchev, thank you for your question. I started my meeting today and answered my questions with the trade agreement from another MP, so I will not return in detail. To our great pleasure, what you are raising as a matter of social protection and arbitration are already resolved issues in the sense that Europe does not agree with them. I explicitly stated it in my speech, and now I'm saying it to you. No, Europe will not lower its social standards either in terms of trade union rights or in terms of arbitration. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to enter on the Council of Ministers' website of the Council of European Affairs. It approves absolutely all positions with which the country goes to council, including a council that will deal with the trade agreement. At any time, first of all, you are invited and you can visit the European Council itself and attend the meeting. And, secondly, you can always inform yourself. Every Monday at 1300 hours is this advice. I assure you that nothing of the country's position will remain without public announcement. And Parliament is the natural, executive-controlled body that can offer its own proposals and react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u137	A line, Mr. Enchev? You won't use it. Moving on to the second round of questions. Another of the non-members in parliamentary groups, I do not see in this Chamber, as they have a total of two issues. On behalf of GERB, Rumen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u138	Madam President, Madame and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Mrs. Kuneva, what measures will the government take to convince the other member states of the European Union about Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen area? I think the issue is extremely important and it is worth informing the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u139	Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u140	Yes, I expect to be regularly asked by you what is happening with Schengen and the judicial reform, what is happening with the verification mechanism and verification of the implementation of our commitments to the judiciary and the security system. This is precisely coordination because it affects much more than one ministry. I unite the efforts of my fellow Members the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Justice, and in this sense the entire cabinet, so that we can make progress. Specifically for Schengen. First of all, our country has technical readiness for Schengen entry. Serious checks were carried out between 2009 and 2011. Such checks have been carried out all the time. Technical readiness, according to these checks, has been resolved, proven and should not be returned to it. One. Secondly, the European Commission supports the entry of Bulgaria and Romania into Schengen. Thirdly, the European Parliament supports Bulgaria's entry into Schengen. And Romania, of course. Then you ask yourself, what's the problem? The problem is that Schengen will happen when the member states of the Council say: yes. There is a tendency, if I may say so, for Schengen entry to be linked to positive reports, generally speaking, in justice and internal order. It's not a relationship that's right. I have struggled at different levels not to make such a commitment to both topics, but, unfortunately, this is a fact. The past government of the Netherlands, for example, has adopted a special decision in this sense and said that the countries will enter Schengen when they have two consecutive positive reports relating in our case mainly to judicial reform. So the issues in individual Member States are somehow related. Bulgaria's position is clear that Schengen and the Cooperation Mechanism should not be bound. It is very important for us to explain to our partners that Schengen is an economy for us. This means a security stamp for investors and for investment and Bulgarian, not only foreign, which have fallen heavily. In its latest report, the European Commission appealed to the Member States to take a decision in favour of Bulgaria. We have to use it all, the whole Parliament. We must be absolutely united in our position and what to do as criticism so that we can strengthen the sense of urgency in both the judiciary and with regard to all commitments made. Let us not prevent criticism without the solutions we propose, Bulgaria's entry into this so, so important tool for imposing security within our borders. What are our plans? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u141	Mrs. Kuneva, you have the opportunity to reply afterwards. Maybe you could work on it there.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u142	Okay, just one last sentence. Two things we need to do is a very strong preparation for the mission, which comes between December 10th and 12th, and a gradual entry into Schengen borders. I intend to attack the first entry through the air border is very important. Bulgaria behaves very well with regard to border guards and we should not be embarrassed to say it. We can do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u143	Thank you. Actually, the line is for Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for the answer you gave. I might not be taking a line, but I am, because you've got an unfinished statement. My and our parliamentary group's request is to exercise your coordinating functions. That is why the question is asked to you, not to the individual ministers, because your functions as Deputy Prime Minister are precisely coordinating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u145	You have the opportunity to dodge, to further the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u146	The point is, for Schengen, I am ready to speak in detail. We're in very good coordination with the Home Secretary. We have excellent practice in the systems "Vizi" and "Sirene". These are systems that guarantee that Bulgaria will fulfil its commitments within Schengen. Let me tell you which countries are booked. In my opinion, you all have enough contacts, including the Friendship Groups, and I ask you to be good-will ambassadors to explain that Bulgaria will benefit from entry into Schengen. And if Bulgaria wins, we have an opportunity to say that it wins another country in the European Union and the European Union as a whole. The countries with reserves are France, Germany, Belgium, Finland and the Netherlands. They point out arguments, I stress, relating to the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, that is, in the part of the Court's reform. This is where my second request is to do everything possible to move this issue forward with Parliament's adoption. For me, this would be a very large guarantee of the security of judicial reform. Whether in full, whether something like a sum of the most important arguments of the system, but I would like to do this with your help by the end of the year. This will give a very strong impetus to the process. No one wins if Bulgaria stands outside Schengen and with a poor assessment of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, which are extremely important to us. Just to let you know that on Friday, I will have a meeting with the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmerman, who is already in charge of the Mechanism. There will also be a Justice and Home Affairs Council on Thursday and Friday, where both ministers Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Vuchkov will defend the interests of Bulgaria in this sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Second issue from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. I'm guessing you're not among the alchemists of this amalgam, the quadruple coalition that governs, but as a function of a power deputy prime minister, my question to you is regarding the current law on the Ministry of Interior. You, I suppose, have also been acquainted with the proposal submitted to the National Assembly for amendments to the law, although it has been tabled by MPs. Under the current law, Art. 63 of the Ministry of Interior Act. The activities of police authorities in countering crime and public order can be assisted by extracurricular collaborators. The Regulation on the requirements for the extracurricular collaborators of the Ministry of Interior, the order of their registration, their functions, the order of coordination and the management of their activities has also been developed. From the previous office of Plamen Oresharski started the Program. It is now in the capacity of the Ministry of Interior structures to use extracurricular collaborators in a volume of 5 thousand. people and they are part of the interaction with civil society. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, what is your opinion and attitude about the use of such forces, which are mostly about countering domestic crime? You know, you've witnessed that action has been taken in the office of Plamen Oresharski. First, the development of an interactive map with municipalities and settlements with concentration of domestic crime, then there was an action, together with specialized police forces, or the more widely known Gendarmeria to respect and reduce, and reduced, the attacks on the personal property of Bulgarian citizens. What is your view for the future within this cabinet, in your role as Deputy Prime Minister, regarding the work to counter crime, which concerns every Bulgarian citizen?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u149	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u150	Mr. Iankov, as co-ordinating Deputy Prime Minister, I will tell you that for me the power is always on the side of consensus, on the side of the union of citizens, not of their division. So at first reading, the idea that you share seems reasonable to me. There is no way, however, without having taken the opinion, precisely because I respect the coordination of the professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior, which for now I have no honour to head, and I think the Minister is doing his job wonderfully, I will not replace him in his functions. As soon as I understand his opinion as a professional in this area, and I tell him my mind and your arguments, I will be able to give you an exact answer as to how we feel about this question, whether we can continue this programme. I'm telling you again, I'm not running away from the answer. I like every form of cooperation and consensus with society.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u151	Do you have a line, Mr. Iankov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u152	From what I've received, I'd like to propose to you the next time you come to a hearing like this, let's ask you the questions in advance, because there's no specifics. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, consensus with crime is not possible. Yes, there is! What Mr. Vuchkov shared from the parliamentary platform is that he sees no benefit from these extracurricular collaborators. I am telling you, as a power deputy prime minister, that this model of work has nevertheless led to a reduction in domestic crime. Check the data! The functions of these groups are coordinated and their tasks are given by the Ministry of Interior. Check this out, too! You, as a power deputy prime minister, must have an opinion, including on the work with civil society, and on the work of the police forces, in order to be your work useful to the community, useful to the people. Believe me, this domestic crime is a very, very serious scourge for every Bulgarian household. And it's not just the TV shows that we've all seen, look at the statistics, look at the numbers, log in to any settlement, and you'll find that this is the main thing people are asking about reducing domestic crime, reducing personal property abuse. This is what concerns every Bulgarian citizen. Anything else you take will also appreciate it, but if you want to be remembered, continue the work of the previous government, the previous professional management, the management of the Ministry of Interior, to have some effect on your governance as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u153	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u154	Mr. Yankov, polite insistence and polite correction. I'm talking about consensus not with crime, as you can imagine, but a consensus on the fight against it. I would very much like to be absolutely clear from this tribune of respect for you and your work in order to get to that point, and because it is not good in plenary to make any hint that there is some consensus on how to deter the fight against crime. Please, I strongly object to reading my words the way I said them: consensus on the fight against crime. I'll tell you every time, until everyone remembers it. Otherwise, since you have asked a question for which I am absolutely known to Minister Vuchkov, the very fact that you are asking him again to me means that you have some hope that things will change. And I want to maintain your hope, and I will continue my talks with Minister Vuchkov until we both reach agreement. Yes, I will listen with great attention to the professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior. But I understand your logic and I would like to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to another question from the DPS Parliamentary Group. I don't see anyone willing. There's a question from the Reformation Block. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mrs Kuneva and it concerns the mechanism for cooperation and verification, which we expect at the beginning of next year. It is no longer a secret to anyone that it will be extremely negative because of the poor governance of the security sector and because of the lack of reforms that the government has introduced, supported by BSP and DPS, the Oresharski government. My question to you, Mrs. Kuneva, is as follows: last week and you attended the hearing the public presentation of the Judicial Reform Strategy, which was made by the Supreme Judicial Council, which was attended by Members of Parliament and representatives of the judiciary and representatives of all authorities. There was a very good idea from the non-governmental sector to join forces and to come up with a common programming document that supports the basic reforms of this updated strategy and to demonstrate a common will to implement them. My question to you is: do you think it is possible, within the few days left by the end of the year, for the Council of Ministers to take this initiative... on the basis of the Strategy to prepare a programming document to be proposed to the Supreme Judicial Council and the National Assembly, and the stated political will to be displayed in it, and the three authorities to come up with a common programming document for reforms and to improve the work of the judiciary? I think this, on the one hand, will be useful in terms of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and the report we are waiting for. That is, Brussels will appreciate this common will, which, by the way, has only happened once in Bulgaria's latest history after the government or around the administration of the cabinet Jean Videnov, in a similar difficult economic situation, delayed and fucked-up reforms. That is my question: would the Council of Ministers take such an initiative and possibly such a programming document become a fact by the end of the year? Do you think that's possible?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u157	Here you go. It's about you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Slavov. I am not surprised that there is a question of judicial reform, especially from you. Thank you so much for following me. I would like to say that such a striking consensus about Bulgarian politics was held during the negotiations and I enjoyed it very much. Because no matter what questions there were, we were all united around this with many declarations from Parliament, including with regard to the judiciary. For the first time and May it was the last time that happened, during the negotiations we all worked in the same direction. Actually, that's why we did it. I would like to ask you this sense of optimism, which can only arise if you work, to return to our daily lives, to come back here, to the executive, to the judiciary in the same way. I very much hope that it will also be captured by the media, because it is really important atmosphere. Yes, my short answer to your question is yes. Of course, the Supreme Judicial Council will independently decide what to do, but I believe that this unity we are talking about is going through a deep understanding of all types of authorities. I am very encouraged that at the forum that you spoke of, we have received unanimous support for much of the Strategy by the Attorney General. I think this is a very serious step in the right direction. If we succeed by the end of the year, we will see with you what the format will be.... whether the entire Strategy will have time to review and approve it, or its most important parts.............................why not in preliminary consultations through you. This is going to be very important. I hope the Council of Ministers will accept the project next week. I would very much like it to be with measures and deadlines, and if Parliament makes this important step forward, it is just as important as the adoption of the budget, and I assure you, and adopt the Strategy, I guarantee you that I will be able to make sure that in the report that will come out in the second half of January, your work is taken into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, indeed such a political will and such intention by all three authorities has not existed for a long time. I am glad that Mrs. Kuneva also draws attention to the fact that in her own way a reform strategy prepared by the Council of Ministers and adopted by him, however good, engages only the Council of Ministers. The intention expressed at this forum last week by representatives and the judiciary, and also by the legislative draft to be supported by them, has indeed demonstrated a very strong common political will, which I am convinced will be appreciated by our partners in Brussels. Perhaps the report will not be as terrifying as we fear. The other important thing of such a common programming document is that when the difficult days of reforms really come, and such do not doubt that there will be, and when we really need to convince ourselves that we must move forward and these reforms are inevitable and necessary, then we will be able to go back to it, see what we have written down and not allow there to be a reversal of commitments made to the Bulgarian citizens to improve the work of the judiciary, become accessible, become independent of political pressure, become fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u161	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have an opportunity for a duvet. You don't want to. Thank you. We are now passing with the next parliamentary group, the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u162	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I can only express my regret that the people's representation in our person, the MPs, expressed such an attitude towards two key deputy prime ministers who left their work and came to us to ask them questions. I believe that the problems we have in their field are the problems of the whole society. My question is oriented towards the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev and is related to the fact that Bulgaria has a terrible absorption of funds from the European funds. By paid funds from the European funds we are only facing Romania and Italy. For information, fellow Members of Parliament, we have on average about three times less EU funds per capita compared to the Baltic warships, which became independent a few years ago. Although we have three times less money, we are the last to absorb it. In my opinion, the question of not absorbing the money is systemic. It is not due to the fact that this government -- for example, the triple coalition -- I see here ten or fifteen people present, spent all two and a half years of their governance less than 1% of the European funds. It is not that several negotiating teams then changed, which negotiated the new programming period. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is: why, Mr. Donchev, have you failed to submit the Law on EU Funds? Why did Mrs. Zinaida Zlatanova refuse to examine this law first in the National Assembly's committee and what is dangerous in this European Fund Act at all? I think that's where the dog was buried.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u163	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You're pushing the clock by 45 seconds. We're listening, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u164	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Petrov, the question that you are raising is extremely important, in so far as a regulatory act, a target law to manage the system of EU funds, would solve several problems. First of all, he would have introduced total discipline related to compliance with any deadlines. When they are governed by law, every administration is obliged to abide by them. Secondly, it would guarantee the stability of the entire system and guarantee that it would not be a victim, for example, of political experiments. Thirdly, one law has another important function. At present, the whole European money management system is unbalanced. The power of the managing authority, the one who distributes the funds, is limitless. The rights of the beneficiary of the municipality, non-governmental organisation or firm are not guaranteed. The law had to introduce a system for balancing these rights and, above all, an opportunity for anyone who felt that their rights were not respected to have the opportunity to appeal. Service of a non-approval of a project certified as non-verified expenditure, including a financial correction. I cannot answer why this law, which is very mature, as a text, was not among the priorities of the previous government. What I want to say is that after final editorials, I intend to present a text to the National Assembly at the beginning of next year. There's something else. The law is not panacea, it won't solve all problems. Very rarely a law can solve absolutely all problems. What we have to do is not repeat old mistakes, because everyone is wrong, but only stupid people repeat mistakes. We just talked about starting the programming period as soon as possible. We have one missed year, I hope the next year isn't missed. We all have to protect both municipalities and NGOs, not only rights, we have to protect their interest. To a large extent, after what happened last year, especially under the Operational Programme of the Environment, some of them are permanently demotivated to participate and implement projects. Let me note that without their efforts we do not have real investment on the ground and on the ground. One final correction, if I may. Bulgaria is undoubtedly not a champion, but also it is not right to constantly repeat ourselves how bad we are. At an average rate of payments around 65% at the end of the summer of this year, the average rate of payments among Member States is 65%, Bulgaria has about 57 or 58. The champion countries, so to call them, with the most extremely high payments, some of the Baltic republics reach about 80 percent. So in good years Bulgaria was not only before Romania, not just before the Czech Republic, including before Italy, of course, before the new Member States such as Croatia. We're not the couple, but I want to be the valedictorian.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u165	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u166	Mr. Donchev, I think you have done a lot of work, but you were a single warrior during those two and a half years during which you were Minister of EU Funds. You were undervalued. Now I hope you won't go praying, but you will call the ministers to you. But I want to, if possible... Do I have the right to further request? [[Applause to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u167	You have the option of a replica, and in the form of a replica you can ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u168	How will the Committee on European Funds function? Believe me, the Patriotic Front will not only be the two representatives, but will be a few people who will work very actively in this direction. How is she going to communicate with these once again shredded, managing, certifying, monitoring committees and so on, which are scattered across ministries when you, as deputy prime minister, are watching them? What do you think the mechanism will be for us to work on, because it will arise? It will be discussed this afternoon at the first meeting of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u169	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u170	Thanks for the good words. I note that there was a hint in the question of the reform that has not occurred a few years ago when it was proposed, like the model that follows some of the Baltic republics and especially Estonia, the system at national level to be much more centralized. Unfortunately, this reform is not being implemented. In my opinion, within this programming period, it is not serious to start with a similar reform right now. She'd slow down the slow start anyway. It can be thought of as a perspective after 2020. I have no power to determine how to work the Commission for EU funds. What I can guarantee is that both I and all the heads of the managing bodies are not so many, they are seven, and the representatives of the institutions of the control institutions.. based on the good practices of the previous years, depending on the topic on which the committee focuses, usually as a practice this is a separate operational programme, a financial instrument, one of the bilateral instruments, a hearing is being made. What I can guarantee is that both the responsible persons and the politicians and the executive experts will be on the line and will not only provide all the information, but will also actively debate with the MPs from this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u171	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. On behalf of the group of Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Haytov will raise a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u172	Madam President, Vice Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members, my question is brief. However, I think it is also clear enough, even more for you, based on the fact that you have already been in similar positions. If I am not mistaken, Mrs. Kuneva in the Government of the Triple Coalition, Mr. Donchev before that, but basically my question is as follows: What is the general policy of the government for economic revival in Northwestern Bulgaria? What investments do you foresee in infrastructure facilities, in creating new jobs and attracting investors in the districts of Vidin, Montana and Vratsa region?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u173	And Pleven. Mr. Donchev, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! An extremely important issue, along with all the other problems Bulgaria has in the field of economics, and in the area of demographics, we have one problem that I would put in the worst case in the third place - this is the level of inter-regional differences. We can, of course, also reason from the point of view of road infrastructure cover, from the point of view of income, but the most impressive or disturbing are the differences, if you pay attention to gross domestic product per capita. If you compare for example what we have about Sofia, which is close to 24 thousand. lv. per capita for one person, and compare it with what we have in some areas, for example Vidin, you will find that there is a difference six times. Six times! Not by 6%, not by 60, but six times, which is absolutely unacceptable in a modern state, even more a Member State of the European Union. The time I have is too short to describe all the measures that need to be taken. There is certainly no way to exhaust the public infrastructure conversation, but we can start with that. Using the resource that we have in the Operational Programme "Transport" for transport infrastructure, but using other financial instruments, including the Fund "Contact Europe" the government will make every effort to develop Corridor No 4 in the part of Sofia "Vidin" as both road and railway connection. In view of the fact that we do not yet have an approved programme "Transport" and the Fund "Related Europe" is only working at the moment, forgive me the degree of condition with which I comment on our intentions. But, of course, the first and in no case is investment in transport infrastructure. Secondly, in addition to the financial instruments that provide targeted support to municipalities, i.e. the Operational Programme of the Environment, are the future Operational Programme of the "Regions in Growth" and the future Rural Development Programme. Learned from the mistakes of the old programming period, we are fully betting on non-competence between municipalities in the allocation of funding. One of the defects caused by the Northwest because of the relatively lower capacity of local authorities there is that a relatively small share of funding is focused on municipalities of this region. One of the lessons we have learned is to run away from the competitive approach, that is to let municipalities compete, and based on the pre-defined projects you may have heard about, mostly on the future Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" I hope they will receive this share of all funding, which corresponds to their needs. Last but not least, the conversation, without being exhausted, cannot not include a higher degree of economic autonomy of local authorities, allowing them to pursue an independent economic policy. If I have a chance within the back, I can be more specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u175	The line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I realize that in this procedure there is no factual possibility to be more precise and more specific. But I would like to assure you that I will be as persistent investment in this region as possible, because really, without going into a hypothesis of opposition to certain regions of our country, there is no need for that, no one doubts this House that you really need to take maximum responsibility in terms of investment in Northwestern Bulgaria. I expect in the procedure you will get your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u177	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mr. Donchev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u178	The fact that the Northwest is suffering from complex problems is undisputed. They are related not only to the economic situation that I have commented on. There is a deterioration in the age structure of the population, which in itself is also a social, at the same time an economic problem. Unfortunately, instead of having a favourable impact on the proximity of the capital, on the fact that this is a border, and on the internal border of the European Union, especially with Romania, unfortunately we also have a build-up of negative factors, which is a complex topic of comment, even for experts in the field of regional development. But there is such a fundamental principle in the regionalism of your comment that attention should be paid to the Northwest. Of course you should. But not only in the Northwest, including other regions that are at critical risk, for example, the area around Strandja without opposing one another. The basic principle in regionalism is that you can't be rich and have poor neighbors. That is, we should try the differences between all regions of Bulgaria to be as small as possible. And two words about what I just said. Even at the level of management programme prepared in the summer of this year, a slightly greater economic autonomy of municipalities was envisaged not only in terms of revenues from local taxes and fees, but the possibility that they could have, figuratively speaking, a share of some of the national taxes, whether corporate tax or other, is a separate topic for comment. But it is through a similar instrument, depending on the economic situation, maintaining a lower or higher tax rate, particularly municipalities in which there is a small amount of investment in which employment is small, could maintain a more attractive tax environment and as one of the tools to attract more investment. I am convinced that this is a topic that will be discussed much in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u179	There is a question coming from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Donchev, my question is directed to you, namely that soon there will be payment of electricity bills and trusting in a report by the World Bank on the state of energy from March 2013, as well as taking into account the activity made by the SEWRC this year, sending two complaints to the European Commission with a view to whether State aid and the Maritsa Maritsa Maritsa-East is not regulated, and I ask you: what will be the policy of the government in the sector. "........................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u181	Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u182	Maintaining bearable for the Bulgarian population and business electricity prices is one of the priorities of this government, noting, of course, that pricing in this field is still carried out by the independent regulator and not by the government. On the subject of your question what is the policy in the field of energy, you know well that probably a few hours would not be enough to comment on all the nuances of this issue. Just to point out that, as a long-term intention, led by changes and policies and as a legal basis at European level, we aim for full liberalisation of the electricity market and the possibility for small companies and citizens to be able to choose between different electricity suppliers in the hopes that this will lead to a more responsible attitude of all operators in this sector, suppliers and so on. Directly on your question: whether termination of the contracts was considered, I would not say. Whether there is an option or an option to renegotiate the terms and, above all, at the price at which electricity is bought, I believe so. I would definitely like to remind you that any action led by the good intentions of protecting the national interest, including the interest of Bulgarian citizens, should still be taken into account by the available legal options. And I very much don't want to be led by a essentially noble intention tomorrow to find ourselves in a situation where for this good intention we will pay double and triple. Those who understand a little more than commercial law know what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u183	Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Donchev, however, I think that there is no precise answer to this question, that is, will you reduce the price of electricity or not because we from the Party of Ataka have always announced, said and shown you here one of the ways. As for the legal framework, I believe that the European Commission has also been asked specifically about the legal framework. As far as I know, I do not know if you are aware, there are also a number of questionnaires exchanged in this regard. The other thing is: from the SEWRC there is a statement by the President of 5 November 2014 that the issue of the price of electricity is due to the government's actions and what measures will the government take. I'm asking you about this, not returning the ball to the SEWRC. If you're gonna toss each other a ball, but in the end, we're not gonna find out... The other thing is that these long-term contracts under which electricity is currently being bought out are extremely detrimental to the whole of society. The problem with energy and the deficit in the energy system comes from them. This is also found by the World Bank, which you are well-respecting, as well as by the European Commission in the part of untrue practices. This thing, to stop paying it, please very seriously, and from the Attack Party, we ask you, as a government, to stop some 5 billion. 400 million in long-term contracts that the public is currently paying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u185	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u186	With some of your speech, I quite agree that there are many negative contracts in the energy sector. They are not, by the way, just RES producers, they are not just the plants you quoted. Data show that in all kinds of producers we have unfair practices and unfavorable contracts. As an ambition of the government to reduce the deficits in the system, we have the ambition to be made with the agreement that it is the last time, but this time with a more detailed review of the entire state of energy not only as energy but also as cash flows. I hope that a large part of such practices will come to light. Of course, the results of this detailed review will be made available to the National Assembly. I want to assure you that the government has all the will, according to its powers, to terminate such practices and where there are non-profit contracts to be terminated, or the conditions renegotiated depending on the formal possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u187	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. We still have a question to hear from the ABB Parliamentary Group. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u188	Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Mr. Donchev, at the beginning of this year the new programming period 2014-2020 is launched. The priorities of the new operational programmes have been set in line with the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy. Unfortunately, however, in 2014, no operational programme announced plans to raise project proposals, which set the entire 2014 to be a zero year. This causes serious and negative trends in the municipalities and the Bulgarian business. At the end of 2014, the European Commission approved the Human Resources Development Operational Programme and the first schemes for the collection of project proposals there would start at the beginning of 2015. We know that the path of a project is not short and it takes a lot of technological time from the collection of project proposals until a grant agreement is signed. In this regard, my question to you concerns the following: what are the operational programmes that will start as soon as possible in 2015 and is the Bulgarian administration sufficiently prepared to process the documents of the Bulgarian beneficiaries quickly in order to have a service within the statutory deadlines? Is there a risk that 2015 will again be of a low absorption rate in terms of euro funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u189	You have a chance to answer, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u190	Madam President, honourable Members! It is an extraordinary honor and pleasure to communicate with the National Assembly, but I note that I answered almost the same question at the outset. By providing for the second time information, the Bulgarian government has so far carried out all the finishing actions and has approved all the operational programs together with the program "Good management" which was approved by the Council of Ministers today. They are all put into the SECI system, which means the European Commission already has them. I hope that as soon as possible and efforts will be made to approve them. I commented a little while ago that even in the version of a late approval of an operational programme, we are ready to launch an advance scheme at the expense of the national budget, differentiated, in the first half of 2015. Directly and specifically, answering your questions: Is 2015 in danger of being zero? No, there's no danger of that. Which operational programs will start 2015? The answer is: everyone. Is the administration prepared? She's more prepared than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-03.u191	Line, Mr. Ivanov. You won't use it. Independent, non-member of a parliamentary group, MP? They don't have a request. That concludes control for today. Thank you for the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva and Mr. Donchev. The time for plenary is over. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with the starting time of 9 pm. We continue with the second reading of the VAT bill. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
