ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. According to the adopted decision to hold an extraordinary plenary session on 8 December, today, from 11:00 is provided a single item: First vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, importing the Council of Ministers. The bill is discussed by the Permanent Committees of the National Assembly. A report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. Who's gonna brief us on the budget committee report? Before that, there was a procedure.. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Given the importance of today's agenda item, I am making a procedural proposal for direct broadcast of the plenary session on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u3	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio at today's plenary session. Vote 188 MPs: 164, against 10, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Before we proceed to the procedure for the first reading of the bill, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to introduce you, if you are interested, to the inspection carried out, now that we have collected all the documents on the South Stream. You know, last week many of them were missing, not analyzed, not collected. I have this ready-to-use analysis if you have patience, it's a summary of 7 pages, I'm not gonna waste your time. After that, I have prepared a set for each parliamentary group so that it can get acquainted with the details, if it wishes, by the overall report. If you'd like, I'd like to get started. [[BSP LB. affirmation lines.]] Thank you. The Bulgarian government has not changed its position with regard to the South Stream project, we support its implementation, but only in compliance with European rules. Last Monday, President Putin announced the suspension of the project and we were notified of this decision through the media. To this day, there is no official position of the Russian side. In the government's programming declaration, we made it clear that a mandatory condition for the future of strategic infrastructure projects in energy is the clarification of their economic parameters. After I have ordered the collection of all documents and all correspondence on the project, today I will announce to you, the MPs, the results of the inspection. Much has been said in recent days what our country has lost if the South Stream gas pipeline is not realized or changed its route. My experts have reported that there is no record of a long-term gas transport contract being signed. At present, there is no completed financial model for the project. The two documents are directly related to clarifying the benefits for our country of building the pipeline on Bulgarian territory. By decision of the Council of Ministers, taken under Protocol No 42 of 7 November 2012, the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism was empowered to give permission to BEH to adopt a final investment decision. On 15 November 2012, a protocol was signed at the General Assembly of the South Stream of Bulgaria, with which the shareholders BEH and OAO GSprom adopted a positive final investment decision with the following technical and economic parameters: the technical capacity of 63 billion. Cube. m of gas per year, the length of the main tube The target period for the redemption of the investment will be no longer than 15 years from the beginning of the commercial exploitation of the pipeline on Bulgarian territory. This is the period within which all the capital costs of the project should be reimbursed. The internal rate of return is 8% of the shareholders' own funds invested in the project. The baseline period to reach the required level of internal rate of return on own funds is 25 years from the operating permit. The Russian company subsequently developed and offered BEH a working, I repeat a working, long-term gas transportation contract that has not been signed. I will read the text provided by the experts: The project submitted by the "Gazprom Export" project does not meet the requirements of European Union legislation laid down in Directive 2009/73/EC. The essential differences are with regard to third-party access requirements, tariff and gas pipeline operator. In this sense, the relevant clauses can only be considered by BEH if an exception is obtained within the meaning of the Directive. In addition, the submitted project contains significantly unbalanced clauses setting out the project company as a pipeline operator in a material disadvantage vis-à-vis the other party to the contract. The long-term gas transport contract also contains clauses which are extremely unfavourable to BEH as shareholder in the project company: - an intermediate internal rate of return of 4,25%, with an internal rate of return of 8% set, according to Protocol of 27 August 2012; - a tariff profile with an excessive low rate in the first 15 years when BEH needs revenue in order to pay its loan to The low rate in the first years of the operation of the pipeline would lead to a small dividend, which in turn would make it impossible for BEH to make large contributions to repay the loan to Gazprom International. In this respect, the repayment period would be substantially extended, which would result in the accumulation of significant interest for BEH; - forecast zero profit after the 25th year of operation of the pipeline. It is expected for the period after the payment of the investment South Stream Bulgaria to generate revenue in the amount of operating costs plus 2%, which would not only deprive the project company of profit, respectively and dividend for BEH, but would also create a likelihood that after this period the project company will work at loss. For example, at unforeseen costs that exceed the 2-percent threshold above operating costs. The project of the long-term gas transport contract, proposed by Gazprom, provides for a structure according to which the project company will generate profits only for the purpose and up to the time of the payment of the investment, and then the profit, respectively the dividend for BEH, will be zero. As regards the financial model, my experts have reported that there is currently no final financial model of the project, as this option should be updated. The data on the current version of the financial model are as follows: (a) conjecture, according to the working version, I repeat, a working version that we have proposed by the Russian side: 1. The internal rate of return on equity is 8%. 2. The internal rate of return on equity for the first 15 years is 4.25%. 3. 100 per cent capacity for the Gazprom export, subject to an exemption for third parties' access to the Directive. In a word, the pipe must be completely full. 4. A reduction in the tariff after 2040 to cover only the costs of the project company. 5. The tariff shall be considered in proportion to the capacity reserved by Results: 1. The average annual dividend to be retained by BEH for the period 2023's total amount of EUR 2040 is 65 million. EUR per year. By 2023, BEH will not receive dividends. 2. The average annual profit tax for the period 2016 - 2040 - is 31 million. EUR, total for the period 831 million Euros. B. Assumptions of 50% filled capacity of the entire pipeline: 1. The internal rate of return on equity is 8%. 2. The internal rate of return on equity for the first 15 years is 4,25%. 3. 50% capacity for Gazprom. 4. A reduction in the tariff after 2040 to cover only the costs of the project company. Results: With the parameters thus set, it is practically impossible to find external financing due to: 1. Unable to repay the debt in the first years of the project. 2. Inability to distribute dividends throughout life to the Project. I believe that these facts are eloquent enough to stop speculation about the so-called profits of the Project that our country has lost. I will make it clear once again that after a procedure has been launched by the European Commission on 2 June 2014 regarding the selection of a contractor under the Project, there is no way the Bulgarian government can take any action for the realization of South Stream on Bulgarian territory. By letter the European Commission warned the Bulgarian authorities on 14 August 2013 that there could be discrepancies between the Intergovernmental Agreement between Bulgaria and Russia from 2008 on the establishment of a gas pipeline for the transit of natural gas and European Union legislation regulating the internal energy market. I am confident that the data I have exported give a clear answer to the questions related to our country's profits from the South Stream Project. We also apply a table by year how to distribute the amount of profit. And in conclusion, I can tell you that I continue to stand on the fact that it is good to pass through Bulgaria, but indirect revenues from the project will be much more than what we are promised or spoken about. Not to mention $400 million. EUR per year.. profits we have lost. You yourself, when you get acquainted with the materials at the moment, will see that this does not fit the facts at all. If there is such a project, $400 million each. EUR per year, this is now a wonderful financial justification, to put it immediately into a contract, to start to consider them by 2040. Then, I believe that colleagues from all parties will support such a project. In a word: the revenues that would come from the construction of the South Stream, from taxes, from taxes, from turnover will certainly be more, in my opinion, than the revenues from the transit itself, so we are sending Tomislav Donchev and Mrs Petkova tomorrow. We will insist, subject to European rules, that South Stream be built. Of course, when all these parameters are cleared, which at the moment... [[Reply to the left: Where do you send them?]] Brussels. Tomorrow is the meeting on the 9th, of everyone, of the commissioner with the energy ministers from the six countries participating and taking the route of the South Stream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u5	Mr. Borisov, would you please provide the table you have to enter the transcript so that it can be used by the Members of the National Assembly and by anyone who wishes. Thank you. Please let the transcript be with the table, which we will apply later. [[Heckling]] Okay, two are the tables. Mr. Mestan on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u6	Is it a statement on the same subject? Is it on this subject so we don't tear the debate apart?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u7	No, the statement is not on that subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u8	On this subject, if there are statements on behalf of a group, please. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Prime Minister, honourable ministers! Mr. Borisov, it is a pleasure to meet you, perhaps, with some of the documentation that has been provided to you. First, in essence,........................................................................................ Even if it's 400 million, and 600 million profits, you can't sign it now. And that should be clear. And that must be understood by all MPs. Why can't you sign it, Mr. Borisov? Because you de facto don't know what the status of the South Stream Project will be. If you sign it, even if a billion is the profit for Bulgaria, you are in violation of European legislation. [[Noise and lines, excitement, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov laughs.]] That's exactly why... [[Loud noise, lines.]] Why would I say that? Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is talk here first of how important profit is. Of course it is important, but that is why these long negotiations were also important. That is precisely why six Member States of the European Union have given the European Commission a mandate to specify whether it will meet the Third Energy Package. If it corresponds to the Third Energy Package, then the fees, Mr. Borisov, do not define them we, determine them the independent regulator of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. However, if we go to what you say to an exception, and what the experts have offered us that it is not good to be signed, then we are already going to a direct negotiation. So there are several models that have been developed, and there are not only two. I'm surprised why they only gave you two, but let's assume they've only offered you two. Then from these models we can really assess and sign the contract depending on the status, honourable Members of the National Assembly. When the status has not been clarified, then we cannot sign anything in any way. That's why this contract isn't signed, it's just that we have certain arrangements. Yes, experts are right and I am glad that Bulgarian viewers understand what difficult negotiations we have been in because there were various models that were provided. We have refused because it is important to protect our national interest. The second thing is very important. Dear Mr. Borisov, when the European Commission sent the letter for the initiation of the penalty procedure, it was precisely three points. The first point was to provide information on an intergovernmental agreement signed in 2008. The second thing they want as information is about the way the project company is set up and exactly what functions it will have something that is signed during your management. The third information is precisely for the method of auctioning or using the Public Procurement Act. This represents not only the only auction that we have made, but the auction, as the project company selected the project manager, and this happened during your management. I, as a minister, have defended three governments and will continue to defend them because I believe that they have all been right in their activities, only that the conflict that has been heated in the territory of Ukraine between the West and Russia has made the European Commission very nervous and I will not ask them to complain about the pace we have set. It is no secret that we have approved EIA for the entire route, we have detailed planning plans, we have permission to build the district of Varna 300 thousand. The tons of pipes are here, the ships are here, which means we can actually start a certain construction operation. However, ladies and gentlemen, nowhere in the European Commission's letter is there any mention of a breach of the Third Energy Package. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] This is very, very important. There is no order, even this letter does not come from the Directorate-General........................ and this must be clear to the Members of the National Assembly. There is talk of free competition here, because, ladies and gentlemen, while we are building, we are not violating European legislation in any way. Nowhere is there any talk of breaking European legislation, rather information is required to assess what happened in the European Commission. Such information we submitted with a decision to the Council of Ministers. Mr. Borisov, I beg you to give the answer to the European Commission so that we can meet because I am convinced that in this case the European Commission is really wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, defending your national interest does not mean that you are at odds with European practice, because ultimately the European Union was created on the basis of solidarity. But this solidarity seems to apply more to rich countries than to poor countries, because rich countries can now freely receive Russian gas, but what about the poor?! It is true that we have made the greatest diversification possible for our economy, which can be made by a single government - it is we who have signed 1 billion worth of supplies. cubic meters of natural gas from the Consortium. This is Caspian gas, which is very important. Bulgaria has become the only country without passing the TAP pipeline through our territory and we can receive this gas. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is not enough natural gas for other countries in the European Union, TAP does not have this capacity. Here the big question is perhaps, Mr. Borisov, should you tell yourself whether the European Commission is aware of what serious, important power player Turkey is becoming? Does the European Commission realize that Turkey is already becoming a partner in this Eurasian Union? We are giving Turkey the opportunity to intertwine several pipelines, they are almost dictating the rules. There was a moment when Turkey wanted to be a full member of the European Union, but the clash between Mr Erdogan and the President of France then Nicolas Sarkozy was obvious. Now the forces are completely changing geopolitically and here is the role of Bulgaria. Regardless of what the government is, whether the issue is raised from the right or from the left, here is a question of protecting our national interest, because we can, in my opinion, still really change the course. After all, the letter that has been sent does not mean that there has been a violation of European rules, on the contrary, information is requested, and we must protect all our actions as I have defended three governments. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u10	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any other group statements on this subject? Mr. Bayraktarov was first, after him Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u11	Madam President, honourable Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! At the very beginning, if I may, Prime Minister, I would just like to make one correction from your speech. Not indirect revenues, but indirect costs will be much higher, as it will then be used by the media to speculate. This information had to be delivered much earlier to the public, because today, unfortunately, it became clear that, in fact, from the project of a working contract or a working project of a contract, it turns out that Bulgaria will not only realise no revenue from the construction of the South Stream route in Bulgaria, it has proved that according to this project, which the Prime Minister, Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people had to pay, and some serious sums. If these are profits, I, the honourable Prime Minister, would offer you the responsibility of officials who have worked on this issue for years. There has already been a very low amount of costs incurred here, and I think that you, as Prime Minister through the competent authorities, should take responsibility for the officials responsible. But more importantly today, you have another question in front of you. This is the question how and how will the interests of the Bulgarian state be protected, the interests of the Bulgarian people, because, as you yourself said, Bulgaria was not officially informed by the Russian side? To put it another way: the agreements that are being negotiated, if they are signed, for which we do not know, are still in force. From now on is the big question: will the Bulgarian state, so to speak, be twisted its hands to serve closely corporate interests, to the detriment of the Bulgarian people and how and how will the interests of the Bulgarian people be protected? There are no indications that 300 or 500 tonnes of pipes have been unloaded once you see them. This is a purely private corporate deal that does not concern the Bulgarian state. Moreover, in the Russian information tools it came up with information that these pipes are intended for a completely different project, which is already questioning again who is telling the truth. Another point is that we do not have clear guarantees from relevant financial institutions that should ensure the implementation of this project. In other words, this means that Bulgaria can once again be placed in the position as it was with NPP Belene. There were some billions of dollars, there were no bank guarantees, and eventually the mega project, as you defined it a long time ago, became a göl, but the Bulgarian people paid 1 and a half billion and threatened to pay and perhaps 1 and a half billion penalties. I therefore ask you to take responsibility for all the positions of persons who have worked on this project. Most importantly, there is no clarity on how many jobs will be created. What has required multiple increases in the cost of this project? She went from memory to memory of 700 to 800 million. EUR, went through 1 and a half billion and to this stage ended at 3 billion. 800 million. EUR without VAT, or this makes this project the most expensive project per kilometre around 7 million. Euros. For reference, the construction of the Nord Stream is 2 million. $800,000. Euros per kilometer. So these issues are very serious to you as Prime Minister and to the entire government. Thank you. [[Private applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Martin Dimitrov has the floor on behalf of the Reformation Block Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! First of all, I want to congratulate you, Mr. Borisov, because that's how it's done. Data shall be exported in front of everyone so that an informed decision can be made. In a similar situation, we understand from a letter that Dragomir Stoynev sent to his colleague, the minister of Russian energy, that some proposals were received from Moscow, which someone had submitted. That's not how it's done. The data and facts are exported to the Bulgarian Parliament to make it clear what this is about. The most important additional information from today is as follows. These tables, colleagues, were made at a 100% fill-in rate of South Stream. If it's 50%, it means that this project will never make a profit, or at least we won't live to see this moment. Because if we follow most Russian projects, they don't have a 100% filler. There is no such project, Prime Minister. That is to say, the South Stream is planned from the very beginning, and this is the most important thing for today, as a project of loss that would never, ever have profited, or direct profit from its activities. It would not form such a profit for the simple reason that there is not a single project with Russian participation that has 100% fillability. A second very important conclusion. From the very beginning, looking at this part or starting a financial model, it was decided that the project should be a total and only a Russian monopoly. That's how it's supposed to be. It is visible from this data. Russia has never planned to meet the European requirements that exist in the second energy package, there are also these in the third energy package, where it is said that 50% should be involved by third countries, that is, Russia has never even thought to meet the requirements of the European Union. This is evidenced by the data you leaked. Which means she was playing bank or the European Union to break its own rules, or the South Stream not to happen. For this reason, notice, there is a procedure for asking for exceptions, which in the language of the European Union is a derogation. Russia has never asked for an exception, never asked for a derogation, as it has asked for a Nord Stream. "For one very simple reason: they wanted either to be a total Russian monopoly or not to be built from the very beginning. This is evident from the documents you presented to us today. Next, see in these tables that by 2022 BEH has no profit at all and then 10 million appear and the profit increases gradually. These calculations were made at 100% filling capacity of the pipe. I call on you, Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy to do an analysis: what will be the financial result of the average filling of Russian pipes. We take 10 years back. That's how you make a model. We see the average filling rate of similar Russian projects and we do a new financial analysis. Then you know what you'll see? That a profit that a direct profit from a South Stream would not appear will not occur at all. That'll be the result. And it's going to be more correct because here the account is made under perfect conditions. It is evident that even under ideal conditions Bulgaria has no profits, there are some tiny virtual profits, even under ideal conditions. And under the average conditions of the last 10 years, South Stream will be at a severe loss. Therefore, honourable Members, we do not have any reasonable reason for this now Mr. Donchev and Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, going to Brussels to want the European rules not to happen. On the contrary, they must happen at all costs. We need to ask for support for the interconnectors, which should already be operational in 2015. Next, we strongly support the policy of developing its own sources of gas. Stop working on these virtually impossible projects. Today's the time to draw the line! We draw the line for Belene. 2 billion losses. For South Stream, we've only had expenses so far, thank God they're smaller. I'm not saying that South Stream should be crossed out. [[Speak and lines in BSP LB.]] Yes, you do. I say otherwise that we cannot put all of the state's efforts into virtual projects that we only spend money on and have no results. The time of pragmatism has come. Our cabinet must now work for the interconnectors, work for its own sources, for which I congratulate you that there are concrete actions. They're mandatory. And as for the South Stream, we must tell the European Commission and Russia only one thing "respected European rules and economic efficiency," but already with the statistical parameters seen for other Russian projects. It's high time we stopped living in the virtual world of the big helmet. This world is over. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u14	Personal explanation from Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I never sent a letter to my Russian colleague. Minister of the Service Schonov sent a similar letter. Why didn't I send one? Because we've never had the issue of circumventing the country. This one first. Secondly, let's not lie to the citizens. The Bulgarian state will not give a penny for this project because there are neither corporate guarantees nor state guarantees. Prime Minister, I assume you've been notified. Moreover, regarding the loan we are taking, it is on extremely advantageous terms. If anyone decides to say so, but I think it's a trade secret, let's get it out, because here the Prime Minister didn't say the loan we're taking. Ladies and gentlemen, when you borrow, Mr. Dobrev had negotiated 15 years without receiving anything. We agreed 22 years to pay this loan, BEH to receive 20% profit and 80% to repay this loan. After all, when you haven't given anything, when you don't in any way burden the Bulgarian people, when there are no even corporate guarantees, it's normal in the first years to repay this loan. So let's stop this speculation once and for all. BEH gets 20%. That's what Schonov said, and that's what Golov said to approximately 60 million. Euros. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, to receive 800 million or 1 billion, but we have not invested in this project. Everything will be paid by the respective financial investors. It's a very good loan. If it is to be shown to all Bulgarian citizens, but this is a trade secret, perhaps if you agree, you should also show the relevant partners to make it clear that the only collateral on this loan is future income from the dividend. Nothing else! If you do not fill the tube, if there is not enough capacity, then we owe nothing. The entire risk lies with the Russian side. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u16	We've entered the personal explanation regime. I hope you get out of it as soon as possible. Mr. Delyan Dobrev wants a personal explanation because it was mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u17	I want the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u18	Okay, on behalf of a parliamentary group, but on the same subject. Because Mr. Mestan is also waiting for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u19	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members and Ministers, MPs! The masks fell today! We heard some confused explanations from the left. Last week was 400 million. EUR, then.. 600 million. $65 million now. Euros. In fact, they were average and 20% for that 22-year period. First, Mr. Stoinev, and I respond to your personal explanation, so I hope you won't ask for one again. First, these 15 years were not negotiated by Mr. Dobrev, but by Mr. Dimitrov, Peter Dimitrov, in 2008. Then he signed, if you remember, an Intergovernmental agreement that was ratified here in this Chamber. According to this agreement, the pipe was to be bought for 15 years, not 22 years, as you subsequently did, violating this Intergovernmental Agreement ratified by the National Assembly. Ratified! There have been recorded for up to 15 years a ratified agreement which you violated in your term of office. With regard to the revenues of this project, colleagues, here Mr. Martin Dimitrov partly explained: 100% filling the capacity of this pipe means not complying with any European rules. Because the exception from the European rules, from the Third Energy Liberalisation Package means that the main shareholder can book 50% of the capacity, or this is the second model that we have shown here. Under this second model, with the exception of European rules, this company is at a loss during the entire period not until 2040, forever at a loss at capacity 50% and filling the pipe at 50%. This means that the only possible option for this project to be profitable is if the pipe is full 100% if this happens eventually or if European rules are not followed. How was this project going? This project was developing in spite of the European Commission. This project, you remember, last year in October, started some tender procedure that gave companies two weeks to participate. There were several companies involved, others complained that they were short on time. The procedure has been terminated. Someone will say, "Okay, let's give a bigger deadline next time." However, next time no larger deadline was given, next time the procedure started around Christmas and ended at New Year's. And guess who won this procedure? It was won by a company that boasted on its website three months before the competition started that it had won it. Three months before the contest even started, she won it. And the price kind of went up from 3.1 billion. EUR, which is the assessment of the projectors, was included in this assessment and unforeseen costs, the projector was in any case re-insured of 3.1 billion. EUR rose to 3.5 billion. Euros, you remember, in Mr. Oresharski's office. After a four-hour conversation with the shareholder company, with Gazprom, where there is no shorthand and we were told that this conversation is the only one that will remain secret. That's where it grew to 3.5. Later, however, between Christmas and New Year last year from 3.5 became 3.8 and in this contract the terms of the contract were included - by the way, on April 29th, Mr. Stoinev, signed contract on April 29th - that no one is allowed to see this contract. There's a clause like that. There is a request from the Bulgarian Energy Holding: can we show the contract at least to the Prime Minister, to the society in Bulgaria? There is an official answer: No, you can't show this contract. He's confidential. On 29 April you signed the contract, Mr. Stoinev, at a time when Mr. Oresharski was in Brussels. Do you remember? He had a meeting with Barroso. And at this meeting with Barroso, Mr Oresharski promised that he would not sign such a contract. At the moment when he made this promise in private, in Bulgaria the contract signed without providing funding. [[Applause from GERB.]] There's no funding! Once again you have signed something and this time this thing is a contract, unlike other projects from the big helmet in question, this time there is a signed contract without having secured funding. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] No funding is provided. There are 15% own participation of Bulgarian shareholders, 15% of the Russian shareholder. Where's the 70 percent leverage? How did you intend to implement this project when funding was not provided? The most normal thing in the development of such a project is first to provide funding and then to do all possible procedures. The signed contract was not the last touch with which you showed that you had no intention of complying with the European Commission. For a year and a half you have done everything in spite of the European Commission, lied and misled both the European Commission and the main shareholder in this project. To the European Commission, you explained that European rules would be respected and, on the other hand, you submitted laws to the National Assembly on how to avoid these rules and not apply at all to this bill, [[BSP LB line]] with suggestions from some Members who are currently calling from the House. So, unfortunately, over the past year and a half, this project has walked one way towards failure. He has created a number of problems for Bulgaria: problems with the European Commission And I would like to ask a very important question: when agreed 8% of the rate of return, who allowed the CEOs of South Stream to sign 4.25% for the first 15 years? Because there's a signed term sheet with 4.25%. There is no signed gas transit contract. However, at the same time, there are signed parameters under this contract that fix the rate of return of 4,25% for the first 15 years. You do not boast that Bulgaria will not give a penny on this project, because all that you boasted about was signed at the time of the GERB government, when there were no problems with the European Commission and there were no criminal procedures. On 15 November 2012, the additional agreement was signed, with which a Russian shareholder will finance the Bulgarian part of the project, so that the Bulgarian side does not bear the risk and does not commit its own funds, which it does not have anyway. The masks are down! The whole truth is out. I have a few more minutes and I will repeat the numbers because they are really the most important. By 2023, BEH will get zero. This is in the most optimistic scenarios at 100% full capacity, without European rules, given that the project is developing as clearly conceived, as Mr. Dimitrov said. From 2023 to 2033 For the next 10 years, the dividend for BEH is between 10 and 22 million in 2033. From 2034 to 2040 grew from those 22 million to 146 million or on average from 2023 to 2040. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR per year, but from 2023 and not for the entire period. In addition, after 2040 under the agreement proposed to us, we have to work at zero costs of the project, plus 2%. The pipe has to work at zero. In the realistic scenario, even with the exception of the European rules and the reservation of 50% capacity for the Russian shareholder, 50%, the loss is from 22 million to 452 million. EUR per year. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u20	Mr. Stoinev, I hope this is the final request for a personal explanation. We've entered into a dialogue regime. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] It was mentioned! And that concludes with the personal explanations. Please do not refer to any other Members or to any other names of Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! It is not true that the funding is not provided. After all, we had to, you know, Mr. Dobrev, how was the project itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u22	I called you for something!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u23	We have to have 30% of our own funding and 70% external funding. After all, we had to secure our own funding. Own funding, given that we have no money to provide it, is taken a loan that is returned through future dividend revenue. So you're saying that we're at zero, and you're almost at a loss, means that you're either misleading everyone, or you're misleading the Prime Minister, because you can't be at a loss when you build it when you start getting gas and you get 20%! Eighty percent, I repeat, colleagues, you're paying a loan! Twenty percent remain for the Bulgarian Energy Holding! So those accounts that you made are completely misleading. Secondly, the rate of return. In the case of Nabucco, colleagues, it was 10%. Why is the South Stream 8%? Why is it 8%? We need to give ourselves a clear answer here. At the TAP, we're going to 12%. A low rate of return is agreed here. Okay, that's how you led the negotiations, that's how you got there, I agree. But there's something very important. Mr. Prime Minister, before leaving the post, there was a contract between the "Bulgargaz" and the "Gazprom" for future holdings in the Black...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u24	You're going outside the personal explanation! I'll take your word for it, Mr. Stoinev! You have no opportunity to engage in dialogue with the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u25	I get it, I get it...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u26	You asked for a personal explanation to Mr. Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u27	That's right, that's right. Because...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u28	And I think you're done clarifying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u29	But this is about the capacity of the pipeline. Wait a minute! [[Laughter at GERB.]] If we had Bulgarian gas, if we found Bulgarian gas to be transported without a problem under the project "South Stream" it had to be signed such a contract and the Russian side was ready.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u31	This contract must also be granted. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u32	Thank you. Don't make me take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u33	Let me just say...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u34	You said a lot of things!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u35	In 2004... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u36	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u37	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask you to really stop the microphone of Mr. Stoinev, who is obviously abusing the right to a personal explanation and making it a reply, including an address to the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers. And since it is clear to me that he will continue to do so from now on, let him, at least by coming out here and abusing the right to a personal explanation, tell me who will pay the first ten years of 25 million years of interest to Where will the Bulgarian Energy Holding get this money? And also to say, as you respect European legislation [[BSP LB]] Why did they sign a construction contract if they didn't sign the gas transit contract? That's to say, not to explain to us nonsense. [[Applause from RB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u38	The word wants the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As these data were missing last week, I was given these data, I considered it necessary for the right decisions to be taken by the government and the Bulgarian state to be presented to the parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, I am still entering into political statements that I do not need at all in this case. I suggest to Mr. Stoynev, Delyan Dobrev and to each parliamentary group to broadcast a representative who can work with the figures and know the history and ultimately put a price and say what is true and what is not, so that there is no constant dispute on this topic. If this is as Mr. Stoinev says, or as Delyan Dobrev says, there are other models. In this situation the whole project and Bulgaria from the first day can be granted a concession to take money, not to add anything. The risk is entirely on the Russian side. All fees and revenues remain for the state. There are different models. Let's go to a model, we're going to it. There's no point in going back to 2008 now, 2009, 2015 if it's 65... It's not 400 for sure. Four hundred million euros is not certain. That's clear. And that's pressure. From now on, let's be united. Tomorrow the colleagues will go and all this duly, Mr. Stoinev... We didn't attack anyone. In my summary, I didn't mention either Stoynev or Oresharski, or BSP, or DPS, anyone, for one purpose only to have a position, and what is a plus, if we can use it for the state, we use it, it's for our own interest. I don't believe you have any interest in getting rich at the expense of the state. I didn't blame you for that, quite the opposite. Here, in front of the cameras, it's always a little more emotional than a statement. I can oblige colleagues from GERB to come to such a meeting. Sit down, take out a sheet by sheet and finally write: this would be profitable if we did it first option, second option, third option. I'll come up here and offer it here, and if you want, we'll do it. There's no point in politicizing it anymore. Everything he had was spoken. In these days, we have, tomorrow, to defend options, and in the coming days, what you say are already subsequent things that are dangerous. If we do not issue the building permit, the court has already decided to issue it, if the ministries that you said do not confirm these activities, this will be a bet then before arbitration and we will bear, as with "Belene" I suppose penali. And we need precisely the expert power of the entire parliament, if we do not win, at least not to raise money to give. So I'm asking you to sit down, let's finish this topic! I'm sorry it got more emotional. My goal was different. Not attacking someone, but taking advantage of the situation. You can see that President Putin is talking to Serbia, Hungary. At some point, our neighbours may say: Bulgaria stops our revenues. It's not right. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u40	On behalf of the ABB group. On the subject, Mr. Tsochev? On the same subject? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u41	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, honourable cabinet members, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister, what you said won't happen. Just a week ago from this tribune, when you were concerned and asked for a declaration, a mandate to hold the talks in Brussels, I called on all the parliamentary groups within the day to broadcast a group and to prepare a joint declaration. There were lines from colleagues on the left, which year? I specified the same day. It didn't happen. It has been seen that you were not given a mandate by the National Assembly. I see your concern, and I thank you for that. You are now calling for reason within Parliament. But here there is a leap of sparks between the left and right wing of parliament, explanations based on numbers that they know each other because they have signed or not given agreements and contracts. I mean, as long as these lines are transferred from left to right, the energy flows surround Bulgaria. My esteemed Mr. Martin Dimitrov said that the big helmet has already been forgotten. Yes, but when 1994 as Deputy Prime Minister, I talked about Burgas with the Russian government, Neftohim was a state organization and was able to provide 10 million. tonnes of annual processing of crude oil for many years to come. This did not happen.. a referendum.. I stop here. The same thing happened with the South Stream. We must minimize the losses at least what the Prime Minister has very responsiblely put before us. It's the same scheme as Belene. What are we doing? Do we have a strategy for Bulgaria? There is no energy strategy in Bulgaria. Do we have a board? Yeah, some say we have an energy board, but it's an advisory board. And do we have a stock exchange, more like I'm moving on from a board to a stock exchange? We don't have an energy exchange. Do we have market liberalisation? We have no market liberalisation. Do we have cross-subsidisation of the heat from electricity for the heating plants? Do we have factory power plants that supply electricity at prices 3-4 times higher than the conventional power plants of the NPP They sell at a price of BGN 71. the megawatt hours, and the others sell to 288, and solar RES reaches 440 BGN. at the megawatt hour. If we have a stock exchange, green certificates will be given, they will be compensated during the investment process with them RES, they will be re-negotiated under a scheme that can happen with Maritsa East 1 at a megawatt hour and Bulgaria from an independent energy center will become an energy dependent center. Mr. Dimitrov, you're talking about interconect relationships. Yeah, but it's Russian gas.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u42	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other. You seized a procedure, a statement from a parliamentary group. There is no such practice during a declaration or statement by a group to enter into dialogue with MPs on the ground. Please, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u43	Thank you, Madam President. I won't mention names, but since interconect links have been cited, I mean, they are just Russian gas along other routes with Turkey's and Greece's allowance towards us. As for local resources, a possible energy strategy will focus mostly on local resources, and they are coal. Bulgaria has for 60 years 30 million. tonnes of annual production, we have a water capacity of 7 thousand. 100 megawatts, from which 5900 can be absorbed, are currently used only 3100. Two thousand eight hundred megawatts have a free hydropotential of the country. But where is the energy strategy?! [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Thin in the drawers of the former Ministry of Economy and Energy. I have a question from September 26th to the Minister of Energy. Hopefully to come by the end of the year, and it is time for this answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u44	Since September 26th, you can't ask because we're MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u45	It's from November 26th.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u46	Yeah, November's another thing. Thank you. Procedure. [[National Representative Martin Dimitrov wants the floor.]] Colleagues, please understand. Don't take this opportunity... [[Reply by MP Martin Dimitrov.]] I have been summoned by your parliamentary group, and I will now be called by the other parliamentary groups as well. I paid attention immediately, in due time, so... We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I remind you that we have received an analysis of the results of the checks carried out on the concluded agreements, contracts, decisions taken, as well as the available correspondence related to the realization of the South Stream project on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. We at Ataka have the intention of carefully reading this document and then making such statements. Because, unfortunately, what we have seen is simply lowering the level of the National Assembly in front of the viewers who are currently watching. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u48	And you're raising your level?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u49	When talking about such an important subject, we need to be familiar. At the very least, we from Ataka want to read this carefully and see for example if the name of John McCain, who came here in Bulgaria, is present and after a meeting with the Prime Minister, said that he stopped South Stream. So, Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" I want a 30-minute break. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u50	An hour has passed since our meeting and the request is a 15-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u51	The hearing is ongoing. Comrades, are we ready to begin? Please take your seats. The time fixed for interruption at the request of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" is over. Quaestors, invite the ministers. On the topic with the South Stream, a statement from the Parliamentary group of Ataka. [[Replyings from MPs from "Attacka."]] Mr. Siderov, we're expecting you. [[Reply by MP Miglena Alexandrova.]] I've asked the MPs to sit down a few times. Your request is correct. Please create a normal working atmosphere in the room, colleagues. We're listening, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought that in today's extraordinary meeting there would be talk about the budget, but it turns out that the issue of South Stream is more important. I knew it was more important. I know it's the most important topic these days, but it's about how the government presents this topic. I feel like I'm seeing a repeat of the NPP story. By 2010, there was a view that the Prime Minister was the same that the NPP was a useful project, that it meets our national security, that it would make us an energy factor in the Balkans and Europe. Since 2010, this view has changed sharply. I won't repeat the story, you all know it. Now we see in a similar way an attempt to reverse the behaviour of the coalition government, which currently rules, made up of four parliamentary groups. We're seeing a twist that's a result of pressure. I'm going to make it clear right now that I'm not going with any violent controversy. I know, ladies and gentlemen, how difficult it is nowadays for a Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria to maneuver between the great, the great world factors. I know this isn't easy, but I know it's not impossible. I know it can happen. I'm not going to give the example of Hungary again with Victor Orbán. I will simply focus on Bulgaria because what we do should be doing for Bulgaria and not for another country. In the case of the South Stream pipeline, Bulgaria has fallen victim to a war between the US and Russia. There's nothing wrong with our souls. Attempts to be presented through specially written analyses the facts so that the South Stream is not profitable for Bulgaria, I welcome them with an ironic smile. There is no way that a pipeline for which Bulgaria will receive transit fees is not profitable for the country. There is no way that a route that makes us an important European factor is not profitable for the country. It is only with these arguments that I immediately conclude the dispute whether it is profitable or not, that there is internal contradiction in the argument that the Prime Minister has put forward here before the plenary. On the one hand, he told us, after getting acquainted with the documents, that there were actually no long-term contracts, no completed financial plan and so on. Well, if there are no contracts and no financial plan, then that's what needs to be done. Why do we conclude that this project is not suitable for Bulgaria? In fact, we don't have the data to conclude that it's not viable. So this is where we're looking for suggestion. I understand it very well. The aim is from this tribune to make an introduction, to the media to take it up and to every Bulgarian home to reach the suggestion: Did you understand it was not successful, this project? Let's forget it. This is the purpose of the session today, for which the extraordinary meeting of parliament is used. However, I think that things are much deeper and large-scale than the South Stream pipeline. Its fate in this government, this majority and this government is clearly decided... will not be it. In another government it may be, but it is a matter of future, a matter of political maturity of our society, of internal coups and so on. Please don't take this the wrong way. However, the scale of the problem is much greater. We are talking about which country Bulgaria will stand in this clash because we have a collision of geopolitical clashes. I have already put out in the Friday statement by a group, although there was no such presence in the room, the views of Ataka. We're at a historic time when the geopolitical clash will have to order us into a country. We are in a similar situation as before 1 March 1941 Bulgaria must decide which country to stand on or maintain neutrality as far as possible. In this case again, I see a rush to Bulgaria to stand on the wrong side. What's the wrong side? If in 1941 the wrong country was Nazi Germany, Hitler Germany, then today the wrong country is the United States, which play the role of Nazi Germany in today's world, the world gendarme, the world exploiter, the dominator who wants to devour all the good things on the planet and not give a tenth of them. Because right now, I don't know if you know, the United States is consuming about 50% of the world's product, but they're giving about 4.5-5%, that is, 1:10. So you give me five, you suck 50. This, of course, creates tolerance, as in drug addiction, you get used to it, then you are very difficult to give up. When a counterpoint appeared in the world in the face of the Russian Federation, which became a strong state, which made a block of states, the economic union BRICS, which makes a monetary union and thus undermines this domination of the United States, of course, that they retaliate with all kinds of actions -- an economic war, plus a real, hot war, because there is a real war going on in Ukraine, people are dying. Let's not forget that! This war is driven by the United States. Vice President Biden himself went and said to the Ukrainian government: "Invade, shoot, kill people, no problem, we are behind you!" This is a real war and its economic aspects hit Bulgaria very hard. Of course, we will have losses from refusing to make South Stream. Of course, we have several hundred million losses a year from sanctions against Russia, which only from tourism by taking is enough for Bulgaria to hit us now. It is obvious that we are suffering damage, but we dare not say it out loud in front of Jean-Claude Juncker, in front of the greats in Brussels. We take pictures with them, but we don't tell them in their eyes that they are pursuing an improper policy and that they need to correct it, because otherwise their own peoples will take them out of power. I'm sure that's what's going to happen, and faster than we'd expect. Bulgaria today has to determine where to stand. Our real, our real, our historical position is Eurasian, not Atlantic. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I understand the area which covers all developed countries of Europe, Balkan countries, the Orthodox world, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and so on. This is all part of a single Europe. The words, dear colleagues of GERB, are not mine, they are of the great, world statesman Charles de Gaulle, who said them back in the 60s: It was his vision, and he was a visionary, he was a great figure. He was a statesman who dared in 1966 to tell the United States: He was the one who said: "I will conduct sovereign policy, I will conduct a policy in which we will develop our interests, not the American ones, not the English ones. It was strongly opposed to the English participation in the Common Market. He was a man with a vision of how Europe could work for its own nations and nations. Unfortunately, we do not have such leaders in Europe today. But Bulgaria is Bulgaria and I call on you, I would like to see leaders in the head of Bulgaria who can say the same thing, who can say the same thing: "Although we are not as big and powerful as you, we have our dignity, we have our presence. Oh, yeah, thanks for the confession! It's a little late! Before that, you cut us off at the Berlin Congress, then you cut us off again at the New York Treaty with the scabbards of live meat, and now you realize that we are a great nation, that we have a great history, and we have always had a huge presence in Europe's civilization process. Yes, thank you for the late confession, but let it be covered in action. Since we are a great nation, Mr Juncker, make this nation live with dignity. She's living badly right now. Stopping South Stream will lower the level of life, not increase it. The sanctions against Russia lower it, do not increase it. That is why our controversy, the attack, is that these actions, which are actions of a global war, are interfering with Bulgaria. That is why we want to call on today's government of Bulgaria to find strength within it and to oppose the pressure it is exerting. I know that it is under pressure both the Prime Minister and the government. The masterpiece, however, is to find a way out of this pressure, to protect your people's interest. This will not happen with analyses in which from nine wells to draw water and prove that, you see, with a game of figures this project, the gas project South Stream is harmful for Bulgaria and does not bring enough benefits. It's not like that! This will happen with a real vision and if you want someone from you who pretends to be a politician and a political leader [[the President signals that time has run out]] I am always ready to talk to him to get together to a vision that works for Bulgaria, even when we are under pressure. This shows the size of a leader not by physical growth, but by whether you can stand up, sometimes against the world's factors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u53	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, its President, Mr Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u54	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of the DPS is not on the topic of South Stream, because we believe that there is no more important topic than the preservation of the foundations of democracy in Bulgaria. The protection of Bulgarian democracy from the ever more stubborn xenophobic pushes of today's governance or at least parts of it. The position of the DPS has been spoken for a long time and it cannot be changed. This project could only be implemented in full compliance with international law, i.e. in agreement with the European Commission. But today's debates have also shown that the main problem facing South Stream is and it is time to make it very clear that Bulgaria could not draw up a clear national position on this issue. The positions in Bulgaria wandered from one extreme to the other from the impossible position: "Streim South Stream," despite the European Commission, until the complete denial of the project. These two extremes have shown up in today's debates. I don't know if there's any point to it yet, but if we want this project to be implemented, it's time to work out a clear national position. And now, on the very subject of the statement. On Friday, December 5, 2014, after weeks of tension in the otherwise impossible, incompatible not only ideological but also valuable, ruling majority of the four party coalition GERB, Reformist Block, ABB and Patriot Front, the fourth and fifth political forces in the Forty-third National Assembly gathered in an attempt to save power. Today, power, expected, survived. The question is about the price these two political forces agreed on. The first, representatives in the power of one of the parties from the Reformation Bloc Deputy Minister and District Governor, will now work under direct xenophobic supervision. That is far from the most important question. If power really is such a self - purpose, it is possible to accept the humiliation of working under direct xenophobic control. The choice is yours, the decision is also yours. The voters, however, will decide whether to recognise your right to claim to represent their interests, I am talking my own about those of the ethno-religious minorities in Bulgaria. The second price that will be paid is the vice of today's government - the sacrificial lamb of the surviving authority - democracy, human rights. In this case, the right of minorities to receive news in their mother tongue via the air of BNT 1. When the achievements of democracy, its principles are sacrificed to xenophobia, it is no longer Europe. It's darkness, Balkan darkness. The responsibility, if the news is moved, will not only be on the Patriotic Front and the Reformation Bloc, but also on the main subject of power - GERB, who, regardless of whether forced by circumstances or by internal conviction, have the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front for their partners, as a kind of xenophobic arriergard of their governance. It is not a minor question of how two political forces, while with the status of only a fourth and a fifth political force, for the first time in the 25-year history of the transition to democracy in Bulgaria, come together and make a decision that rudely, in violation of the basic principles of the Law on Radio and Television, decides to intervene in the programme policy of an independent media, it and the National Public Media. How do one or two political forces define the programming policy of an independent media?! Where did freedom of speech go?! Where is the Council of Electronic Media, is she sleeping, can't she hear?! And that's far from isolated. Perhaps you'll intervene in the work of other independent regulators. You have already established a parliamentary committee for control of another regulator. Of course the committee will be chaired again by your strategic partner in the face of the Patriotic Front. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is done with the claim that certain political forces are carriers of absolute truth. They have embezzled this right to be moral judges, those who pronounce judgments of last instance. They should all listen to them, including GERB. If the power goes down, it's gone. [[Relations from the bottom of the hall.]] We're looking at a value roll-over. What is natural, natural from the point of view of the rule of law, of human rights, as the right of a highly educated professional like Orhan Ismailov to take up the post of Deputy Minister of Defence is considered a compromise. They had compromised.. he would remain Deputy Minister. What could be more natural than that?! Of course he'll be Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u55	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u56	If he has qualities, he'll be a minister. And what is a xenophobic push, I will now present myself as a political norm. It cannot happen without discrediting the European image of Bulgaria. The case isn't isolated. These days we have heard a statement, let me be more precise in my quote: If someone has chosen to live as a scot, he is also entitled to be treated as such. So much for talking about who has what rights. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is impossible in European Bulgaria! We are absolutely against generalized labels, brands that mark a whole ethnicity, because crime as a phenomenon is not ethnic, it belongs to the individual and it is subject to all the strictness of the law. Generalized negative assessments for whole ethnicities are the brightest manifestation of xenophobic thinking. And it became clear that this xenophobic thinking was not just a privilege on the Patriotic Front. Of course, we welcome the position of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to hold the pressure and not to remove Mr. Orhan Ismailov. However, this position must be continued, because if Mr. Orhan Ismailov should remain as Deputy Minister at the expense of the news in Turkish, it is no longer a principle, it is a deal, an ugly deal! I would not like to be in the situation of the reformer bloc colleagues who will bear the burden of responsibility of being deputy ministers or regional governors at the expense of strategic interests, objectives, rights. That's what we wouldn't understand. Of course, you make attempts to imitate and differences [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and with this I end, such as the different attitude towards the election of Mr. Slavi Binev. You, on the one hand, do not agree with him being chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u57	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u58	On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I cannot see the European faces of each of you, you do not mind, even if you are willing to sit here as ministers with his voice. So I correct my original thesis: this coalition that you are ruling is not ideologically heterogeneous, it is not value-consistency, because you are quite harmonious and compatible. It's time to come to your senses! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u59	Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Organization of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Dimitar Uzunov, Member of the Supreme Judicial Council, and Mrs. Margarita Radkova, Director of the Directorate of Budget and Finance and the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u61	Please vote. They voted 145 MPs: 141, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to a single point in our program for today. FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2015 The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will be presented by the President of the Commission Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u62	Thank you, Madam President. First, I would ask for a procedural proposal: Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Boyka Tsonkova, Director of the Parliamentary Budget and Finance Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u63	Please vote. Vote 134 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u64	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At a meeting held on 3 December 2014, together with the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance; Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Mr. Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Vessela Karaivanova-Nacheva, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute; Mrs. Rumyana Todorova, Governor of NHIF, Mr. Dincho Genev, Governor of NHIF, Director of Departments in the ministries, representatives of employers' organizations, representatives of trade unions in Bulgaria, representatives of shared organizations and others. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Minister Goranov, who noted the main parameters and indicators included in the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The main priorities set out in the project are to restore financial stability in normal and generally accepted European deficit limits within the maximum level of 3 percent of gross domestic product. The budget balance for the three-year period is proposed to be 3 per cent deficit for 2015, 2.5 per cent deficit for 2016 and 2 per cent for 2017. A step of 0.5 per cent consolidation is proposed for each year. The actual growth expected for 2015 is estimated at 0.8 per cent of gross domestic product. In 2015, a minimum annual average inflation rate of 0.1 per cent is expected and a low unemployment rate of 11.7 per cent is expected. Revenues for 2015 are planned at 36.8 per cent of gross domestic product and expenditure at consolidated level under the fiscal programme is less than 40 per cent of gross domestic product. The estimate is that they will reach 39.8 per cent. In view of the expected implementation for 2014, expenditure decreased as a share of gross domestic product by 0.6 percent. As regards the maximum amount of government debt, it is directly correlated with the levels of budget deficits expected in the coming years and is expected to reach up to 24,5 billion. lv. at the end of 2015, the ratio is 29.7 per cent of gross domestic product. The commitment of new government debt is planned and the concept of "new' expresses the gross amount of debt committed in 2015 at the amount of 8,1 billion. lv. It is envisaged that the maximum amount of government debt by the end of 2014 will amount to 22,5 billion. lv. Accordingly, by the end of 2015, its level is expected to increase by 2 billion to 24,5 billion. lv. After consultations in the government and with the social partners, it is proposed that the minimum wage should be increased in the next 2015 twice, and from 1 January it will grow from 340 to 360 BGN and from 1 July to 380 BGN. Minister Goranov pointed out that the government is ready and ensures that it will be a correct payer to all who have concluded contracts and are committed to services, supplies or works related to normal government spending or to the management of European programmes, not only by the end of this 2014, but also in the next 2015. The government's readiness to finance and repay all delayed expenditure on operational programmes, especially the environment and regional development by the end of the year, has also been confirmed. This will be done through the mechanism by which these costs are proven to the relevant managing authorities and the certifying authority in the Ministry of Finance. Minister Goranov said that for 2015 an opportunity was created to increase the government's investments, mostly through the expectations of a rapid entry of the European funds and through a mechanism to start pre-financing the costs of operational programmes, which will lead to the effective injection of this resource into the Bulgarian economy. In the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2015 - 2017, which is Motives to the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, the Council of Ministers has indicated the following parameters and indicators of the state budget for 2015. The main dimensions of the 2015 Consolidated fiscal programme indicators are as follows: The amount of the total revenue, aid and donations under the Consolidated fiscal programme for 2015 is 30 335.2 million. BGN, or 36.8 per cent of gross domestic product. The amount of the total expenditure and contribution to the European Union budget is 32 824.1 million. lv. or 39,8 per cent of gross domestic product. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid in the form of State aid in the form of State aid, which is compatible with the functioning of the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal Regarding the estimated amount of gross domestic product, the deficit is of 3 per cent. The heading of expenditure under the Consolidated fiscal programme 2015 by function shall be: General government services. The function includes the costs of executive and legislative bodies, of part of executive agencies and committees, as well as the means of science, and for 2015 a cost of 1,828.9 million is foreseen. BGN, including a reserve, which represents 5.7 percent of the total costs and 2.2 percent of the gross domestic product. Security and Defence function. The estimated costs reflect the state policy on defence, security and internal affairs, the judiciary, as well as the activities on the execution of penalties. The estimated cost is 2,935.9 million. BGN, 3.6 per cent of gross domestic product. Function "Education". In order to implement the priorities in this area, integrated measures and actions will be implemented to ensure equal access to quality education and professional training and growth based on knowledge and science and the development of young people. The costs provided for are EUR 3 044,9 million. BGN, or 3.7 per cent of gross domestic product. Function....................................................................................... The estimated funds reflect public health and health policy, with planned costs of 3,886,2 million. BGN, 4.7 per cent of gross domestic product. Function "Social insurance, assistance and care". The planned costs reflect the state policy on social security, social welfare, pensions and other activities in the field of social assistance and care, with an amount of 11 307 million. lv. or 35.5 per cent of the total expenditure of the budget and 13.7 per cent of the gross domestic product. These are the costs which also occupy the highest relative share in the functional distribution of public expenditure. Construction, public works, community holding and environmental protection. The planned costs amount to 2,763,4 million. BGN, 3.4 per cent of gross domestic product. These funds will finance expenditure in the implementation of the policy on development of the regions in the country, reducing differences and improving their infrastructure connectivity, modernizing the water supply and sewerage infrastructure, implementing the Strategy for water supply and sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014 - 2023. Function "A break case, culture, religious activities." The planned costs amount to 550,5 million. lv. or 1.7 per cent of total costs and 0,7 per cent of gross domestic product. The funds in the function are financially provided for the state policy in the field of culture; the expansion of the opportunities for practicing motor activity and healthy lifestyle; the development of school sports; the realization of projects related to the restoration of monasteries, religious monuments of culture and others. Economic activities and services. The planned costs amount to 4,655.6 million. BGN, which represents 14.6 percent of total costs and 5.6 percent of gross domestic product. The funds read in the function reflect state policy in terms of the real sector, policies in agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as priority policies in the implementation of infrastructure projects in the field of transport, projects related to energy efficiency, industry, construction and tourism. Function "Costs not included in other functions'. The planned costs amount to 871,8 million. BGN 1.1 per cent of gross domestic product. Here are the funds for interest expenses on debt service, as well as interest costs on state investment loans. 3. Budget relations of the state budget with municipalities for 2015. They are planned to be at a total of 2 485.6 million. lv. by type and size, as follows: The total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State to an amount of 2 066,8 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN of which for total matching subsidy 264,0 million lv. and for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads 23,0 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, including for construction and major repair of municipal roads 63.0 million lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty, lv. In the size of the budgetary relations of municipalities with the central budget for 2015 there is an increase of 100,9 million. BGN, including: of the uniform standards in the activities delegated by the State with 78,6 million. lv.; of the matching subsidy of 8.4 million lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow cleaning by 4 million BGN, the target subsidy for capital expenditure by 9.9 million BGN, including for repair and construction of municipal roads with 3.0 million. lv. Under the Law of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, revenues, aids and donations are offered at a total amount of 18 234.6 million. BGN, including tax revenue 16 603.8 million lv.; non-tax revenue 1 630.1 million lv. and aid and donations 0.7 million. lv. The total amount of expenditure 9 043.5 million. lv. is allocated: for current expenditure 8 094,5 million lv.; for capital expenditure 858.6 million lv.; for growth of the state reserve 19.2 million BGN, as well as a contingency and/or emergency reserve of 71,1 million. lv. The budgetary relationship (transfers) is 10 436,9 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The budget balance is proposed to be a deficit of 2,225,7 million. lv. and carrying out operations in the part of the financing of the budget balance of the same amount. Budget of the judiciary 2015 The Supreme Judicial Council proposes a cost amount of 543.7 million. BGN, of which 519.6 million lv. For current expenditure, 23,3 million lv. For capital expenditure and 0,9 million lv. the emergency and unforeseen expenditure reserve. The Council of Ministers offers a cost amount of 460 million. BGN, of which: 450,4 million lv. For current expenditure, 9 million lv. For capital expenditure and 0,6 million lv. the emergency and unforeseen expenditure reserve, i.e. the Council of Ministers proposes an increase in total expenditure for 2015 compared to 2014 by 26 million. BGN, including for current expenditure 21,4 million lv. and for capital expenditure 4,6 million lv. Budget of the National Assembly For 2015 it is envisaged that the budget of the National Assembly will have the following revenue, expenditure and budgetary relations with the central budget: revenue BGN, expenditures lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. Of the total amount of expenditure 53 million lv. the current costs are 50,4 million. BGN, capital expenditure is 2.1 million. lv. and an emergency and unforeseen cost reserve of 0,5 million. lv. A discussion was held on the bill, which presented various opinions and raised many questions. The representative of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Mr. Velev and the representative of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mr. Todorov expressed support regarding: maintaining the amount of tax rates and insurance contributions, reducing the redistribution of less than 40% of gross domestic product; reducing expenditure in the state administration; thawing of the pension reform; paying with the business and quick start of the new operational programs. This would lead to recovery and growth in the economy. Mr. Velev expressed a reserve on the administrative increase in minimum insurance benefits in economic activities, where there are no agreements reached and on the growth of the minimum wage, which, according to the Association, is not economically justified. The Vice President of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria Mr. Nenkov expressed support regarding: limiting the budget deficit of up to 3 percent of gross domestic product, the intention to raise the minimum wage, the growth of minimum insurance thresholds and preserving the retirement rights of category workers. Mr. Nenkov also expressed the following disagreements and reservations on the bill regarding: the lack of measures for growth of the economy and the growth of consumption by increasing incomes. The planned reduction in incomes in the budgetary sphere by 10 percent and the emerging cuts should not affect the income administrations of the type of NRA and the Customs Agency, as well as the structures which deal directly with the services of the citizens of the type of Employment Agency and the Social Assistance Agency. In the field of tax policy, again, family income tax has not been proposed. Mr. Nenkov expressed his disagreement about the recovery of age and internship for a third category of workers. In the course of the discussion, the MPs raised many questions about: the share of public expenditure compared to gross domestic product, the impact of a fisca on economic growth, the level of non-refundable tax credit as an instrument for temporary overcoming cash disproportions in the budget, ensuring the cost of the separate budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund and the budget of state social security, absorption of European funds and others. The questions were answered in detail by Minister Goranov. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, the Standing Committees of the Forty- Third National Assembly have expressed their broad support, with the exception of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, which propose that the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 should not be adopted in the first vote. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held in the Budget Committee and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: "Abstentions" " 16 Members of the National Assembly," except for "for" and "against". 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:....... 11 MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 by the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Reports from all the Standing Committees have been submitted on which the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 has been allocated. In accordance with art. 77, para. The 3th sentence of our Rules of Procedure, the reports and opinions of the other committees, apart from the leading one, may be presented in a summary in plenary. I invite the chairmen of the committees or their authorized persons, who will familiarize us with the reports and opinions of the individual committees, to take this opportunity under the Rules, so that the specific parts of the committee are not read, the persons who attended the committees, all of this will be an integral part of the transcript, but rather to acquaint us with the content of the debate and the proposal for a decision by the committee concerned. Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u66	Madam President, ministers, ministers, ladies ministers, Members of Parliament! ♪ I can't believe under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held together with the Energy Committee and the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 3 December 2014, examined and discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister of Finance, Bozidar Lukarski Minister of Economy, Nikolina Angelkova Minister of Tourism, Temenuzhka Petkova Minister of Energy, representatives of employers' and trade union organizations and civil associations. The bill was presented by Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance. She stressed that the budget presented guarantees financial stability. The estimates of the measures taken suggest a reduction of the deficit. Minister Bozidar Lukarski presented the budget of the Ministry of Economy, through which the Ministry will conduct a policy of guaranteeing financial stability and gradual financial consolidation, exiting the state of reduction of gross domestic product and gradual economic recovery and growth. Minister Nikolina Angelkova presented the budget of the Ministry of Tourism and its priorities for work in 2015. The budget of the Ministry is oriented towards the development of a diversified tourist product to establish Bulgaria in a well-known and preferred year-round tourist destination, to increase the development of specialized types of tourism and increase its quality and competitiveness. In the subsequent discussion, representatives of Coalition BSP left Bulgaria and said they would not support the State Budget Bill 2015 because they do not agree with the conservative approach in forming the revenue; with the cancellation of the public investment programme; with the recovery of the fiscal policy that limits economic growth. The representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms do not support the budget on the grounds that it is planned too carefully and in the presence of many macroeconomic discrepancies; that no reforms or at least the beginning of any reforms are laid down in the statement of revenue; that there is no digital expression of the intentions of increasing collection by the revenue agencies. The representatives of the Reformation bloc support the budget because it meets the objective conditions and is drawn up in accordance with the forecasts given by the European Commission and the World Bank for Bulgaria. Reserves were expressed regarding reduced defence costs and increased defence expenditures for the Ministry of Interior. The representatives of the Patriotic Front supported the budget and called for a review of the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, given the need for large-scale advertising of tourism activity and given the large share of tourism revenues within the framework of gross domestic product. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:.......................................................................................................................... 2 votes.................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: supposed to vote 10 votes, abstentioned to no votes, and against 6 votes. On the basis of the above vote, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt at first reading the Draft of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. The report of the Energy Commission will introduce you to her Chairman Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At its meeting held together with the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Monitoring Commission of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 3 December 2014, the Energy Commission discussed the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Economy Mr. Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance and representatives of employers' and civil organizations. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Ms. Karina Karaivanova. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova presented the parameters of the budget of the newly created Energy Ministry for 2015. She pointed out that the Ministry of Energy will guide its activities towards fulfilling the general programme priority of the government of Bulgaria for achieving an energy policy aimed at sustainable energy development of the country, efficient use of energy and energy resources and meeting the needs of the society for electricity and heat, natural gas, petroleum products and solid fuels. The Energy Ministry will conduct a clear and transparent energy policy that will aim to protect public and public interest and will be based on European principles. For the implementation of the state policy in the field of energy, the Ministry sets a key strategic goal to create conditions for secure, effective and environmentally relevant energy. It will be achieved through the implementation of operational programmes and objectives: Operational programme "Guaranteed security of supply in competitive energy markets" which will be carried out through two programs "Sustainable functioning of energy enterprises, infrastructure and markets" and "Safety in energy supply and in the management of radioactive waste and decommissioning of nuclear facilities." The Operational Programme will be implemented through the Programme "Sustainable Energy Development" and the Operational Programme "Sustainable Energy Management" will be implemented through the Programme "Sustainable Energy Development" and the Programme "Sustainable Energy Development" will be implemented through the Programme "Sustainable Energy Development" and the Operational Programme "Sustainable Energy Management" will be implemented through the Programme "Sustaining the process of concessionation and management of underground wealth and geological research." The cost to the Ministry of Energy amounts to a total of 51 million. 265 thousand. BGN, and they should ensure the activities of both the central management and one authorising officer with a budget of the Ministry of Energy.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The government's cost is 4 million. 212 thousand. BGN, and the administered costs are 47 million. 52,000. lv. The administration costs include subsidies for non-financial corporations for the Fund........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 646 thousand. lv. subsidies to non-financial enterprises intended to compensate the costs of NEC as a public supplier of electricity from renewable sources at preferential prices of 6 million. 388 thousand. lv. funds for implementing financial measures under the Energy Act and the Energy Efficiency Act. Capital transfers are also provided for the "Exhibition of nuclear facilities" and the "Radioactive Waste" Fund, amounting to 5 million. lv. The revenue provided for as a financial indicator under the budget of the Ministry of Energy amounted to 130 million. 235 thousand. lv. The main sources that are expected to make this revenue are envisaged in the main part of 86 million. 564 thousand. lv. to act in accordance with the Regulation on the order of establishment, collection, spending and control of funds and on the amount of contributions due to the Fund "Departure from operation of the nuclear facilities" and the "Radioactive Waste" Fund. Revenue from State charges of 2 million is envisaged. 642 thousand. lv. They will be collected at the fees charged by the Ministry of Energy system. The third source of revenue is the revenue from concessions that are collected under the Law on concessions, which are provided for in the amount of 41 million. Twenty-nine thousand. lv. In the subsequent discussion, representatives of Coalition BSP left Bulgaria said they would not support the State Budget Bill 2015 because they do not agree with the conservative approach in forming the revenue, with the cancellation of the public investment programme and with the recovery of fiscal policy that limits economic growth. The representatives of the DPS do not support the budget on the grounds that it is planned too carefully and in the presence of many macroeconomic discrepancies, that no reforms or at least the beginning of any reforms are laid down in the expenditure part, and the revenue part lacks a numerical indication of the intentions to increase collection by the revenue agencies. The representatives of the Reformation bloc support the budget as it meets the objective conditions and is drawn up in accordance with the forecasts given by the European Commission and the World Bank for Bulgaria. Reserves were expressed regarding reduced defence costs and increased defence expenditures for the Ministry of Interior. The representatives of the Patriotic Front support the budget, with recommendations to the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As a result of the discussion, the Energy Committee proposed to the National Assembly that the draft State Budget Act for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. I am stating that this was a summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to her President Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u70	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members! In short: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The sitting of the Legal Commission took place on 4 December 2014 There were all representatives of the Ministry of Justice, two Deputy Ministers, from the Supreme Judicial Council representing the Supreme Judicial Council, two members and the chief accountant, the Chief Inspector of the Judicial System, the Deputy Prosecutor, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The draft budget of the judiciary for 2015, prepared by the Supreme Judicial Council, was presented by Mrs. Sonia Naydenova and Deputy Minister Petko Petkov presented the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the same project. The parameters of the two proposals for a judiciary budget have also been detailed in the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, so I will not present them to you in detail. Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ms. Rositsa Yanakieva-Kostadinova, Mr. Petar Slavov, Mr. Dimitar Delchev, Mr. Danail Kirilov, Mr. Chetin Kazak, Mr. Emil Dimitrov took part in the discussion. Mrs. Manolova raised a question as to whether the Supreme Judicial Council agrees with the intended 460 million. lv. and shouldn't the necessary resources be provided in order for the judiciary to function, given the expected judicial reform. In response Mrs. Naydenova clarified that the proposed by the Ministry of Finance 460 million. lv. are not sufficient to fulfil legal obligations, especially given the costs with which the judiciary ends this year. Mr. Slavov pointed out that the SJC's proposal involves securing a normal functioning of the judiciary and, if it cannot be ensured in full, at least it follows the Ministry of Finance's proposal to increase by 33.4 million. lv. This proposal was supported by the other MPs and Mr. Kirilov noted that he made a commitment to propose that such an increase be made between first and second readings. Asked by Mr. Kirilov whether it is possible that part of the notary fees, respectively part of the fees collected in implementation, could be translated in favour of the budget of the judiciary, Deputy Minister Petkov replied positively and stressed that such a regime already exists in a number of countries. Mr. Kazak pointed out that this idea has been discussed more than once, but the position of the Ministry of Finance has always been that this is impossible, as revenue is collected centrally and must first pass through the budget and then be allocated secondaryly. Mr. Dimitrov expressed doubts and pointed out that funding should be sought in the long term. Following the discussion on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 8 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, without the opposition and 9 abstentions, propose to the National Assembly not to support the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, including the draft budget of the judiciary drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council; - with 11 votes in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria, 6 against, and without abstentions, propose to the National Assembly to support the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, including the draft budget of the judiciary with the opinion of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The content of the report will introduce you to the President of the Commission, Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u72	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! At a regular meeting held on 4 December 2014, the Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government Committee discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Road Infrastructure Agency and civil society organizations. Mr. Nikolay Nankov presented to the Commission the draft budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and detailed information on the funds provided for in the project on the main policies, programmes and activities carried out by the Ministry. He drew attention to the fact that the increase in the budget compared to the one for 2014 was due to the differences from the previous division of the ministry and the creation of the Ministry of Investment Design, respectively.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The costs of the ministry's activities are divided into three policies and nine budget programmes. It was underlined that the revenue from wine fees would be used at a hundred per cent of the Agency's Road Infrastructure (R &amp; D) for the main activities of the Agency for repair and maintenance of road infrastructure according to the provisions of the Roads Act. Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Directorate of the Finances of the Municipalities in the Ministry of Finance, presented to the MPs detailed information on the projections of the bill in its part on the relations of the Republican budget with the budgets of the municipalities. The draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 provides for a general subsidy for the activities delegated by the State 2 066,835.9 thousand. BGN, transfers for local activities including total matching subsidy 264 000,0 thousand lv. and transfer for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads 23,000,0 thousand. BGN, target subsidy for capital expenditure 131 800,0 thousand BGN, including 63,000,0 thousand. lv. for construction and major repair of municipal roads. The total increase in the budget for 2015 amounts to 100,9 million. lv. Compared to the 2014 budget, including the uniform standards for the State-sponsored activities by 78,6 million. lv.; of the matching subsidy by 8.4 million lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow cleaning by 4 million lv.; the target subsidy for capital expenditure BGN, including for repair and construction of municipal roads with 3 million. lv. During the discussion the MPs raised a number of questions related to the different parameters of the budget to which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development responded. The main part of the issues were the possibilities for implementing specific sites in the road infrastructure and the energy efficiency programme and the renovation of residential buildings. Attention was also paid to the proposals of municipalities to increase transfers in certain activities. The reasons of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the specific amount of the necessary additional funds are set out in detail in the minutes of the consultations on the bill signed between the Minister of Finance and the Association. Proposals were made between the two votes of the bill to seek additional mechanisms to provide additional funds for municipalities, taking into account the specific characteristics of the formation of the budgets of the individual municipalities in order to ensure the necessary financial resources with which municipalities can operate independently next year. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government shall: - without the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art................................................................................................. and 17 votes..................................................... 1 and 2, not to be accepted in the first vote; - with 9 votes supposed to the National Assembly the Draft of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u73	And thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Dear Members of Parliament, I suggest that we hear on behalf of the importer, the Minister of Finance. As you have been informed, which imposed today's extraordinary meeting, he is about to travel to Brussels at a meeting of finance ministers and so happened with the debate today that there was no time for him to hear all the reports. Minister, we're listening on behalf of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! In accordance with art. 79 of the Public Finance Act I present to your attention for discussion the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, which is accompanied by the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2015 - 2017, representing the reasons for the bill. The development of fiscal policy enshrined in the 2015 budget was a challenge given the late update of the 2014 Budget and the dynamics of expectations for macroeconomic development in the coming years, taking into account the problems and challenges that are relevant both to the current budget and the plan for next year and to the state of public finances in the medium term. The priorities in the next budget are: carrying out a policy guaranteeing financial stability and step-by-step, gradual financial consolidation; adopting actions to optimize the administrative structures of budgetary organisations after carrying out a functional analysis by the relevant managers, and last but not least, effective management of the European funds. The budgetary framework 2015 was prepared on the basis of a conservative forecast of the main macroeconomic indicators, a realistic estimate of revenue, as well as restrictive planning of the expenditure part. The fiscal objectives of the government correspond to the priority policy of guaranteeing financial stability and gradual financial consolidation. The estimates and measures taken to limit the budget deficit suggest eliminating the factors that led to the deterioration of the budget position in 2014 and completing this indicator with the 2015 budget at the limit of up to 3 per cent of gross domestic product. The annual deficit reduction planned by the updated medium-term deficit reduction by a step of 0.5 percent will give a good signal of the government's intentions to mitigate the negative effect of the once deficit loosening in 2014 and to show a sustainable trend towards improving the budgetary position. In order to enable the deficit reduction target to be achieved, a conservative approach has been followed with the next year's budget to plan revenue in order to reduce the risks in implementing the revenue side of the budget. With regard to expenditure, an analysis of the effect of further limitation of expenditure in individual budgetary systems has been carried out. The updated macroeconomic forecast reflects the current development of the national economy in 2014, as well as the changed external assumptions for the international environment by the end of 2014 and next year. The outlook for the development of economic activity worldwide remains unfavorable. For the Eurozone countries there is a risk of a longer period of low inflation or even deflation under the influence of potential external and internal shocks. The US dollar's exchange rate is expected to rise against the euro, but this will not cause pressure to increase inflation in the country by external factors. In 2015, a slowdown in real GDP growth to 0.8 per cent is expected as a result of low consumer confidence and negative expectations from businesses. In the next two years (2016 "2017') economic growth will be accelerated with a major contribution to domestic demand. The level of consumer prices in Bulgaria at the end of 2015 is expected to be slightly positive and the average annual increase in harmonisation of consumer prices is 0,1%. The delayed inflation processes in the forecast period will also contribute to relatively lower nominal growth of the Bulgarian economy. The unemployment rate in 2015 is expected to drop slightly to 11.7%. The parameters laid down in the consolidated fiscal programme for 2015 are in line with the changed macroeconomic environment and the underlying assumptions set. As I mentioned, the 2015 CFP balance is negative at 3 percent of gross domestic product. The revenue expected to enter the budget for next year is planned to be 36.8 per cent of gross domestic product. Due to the need to maintain fiscal stability, fiscal consolidation measures in the revenue section are aimed at creating better coordination and organisation of revenue administrations collecting tax revenues, expanding the tax base while maintaining the flat taxation of personal incomes, creating prerequisites for higher collections while maintaining low levels of taxation. The expected level of expenditure under the consolidated fiscal programme is 39.8 per cent of the estimated gross domestic product for 2015, while maintaining the tax policy based on low taxes and a realistic assessment of the implementation of programmes co-financed by EU funds and other donors, and with fiscal targets set for the budget balance. The main contribution to fiscal consolidation is the costs of which a relative share for 2015 compared to the expected implementation for 2014 decreased by 0,6 percent of gross domestic product. Tax policy will be oriented towards supporting economic growth, improving the business environment, as well as limiting tax fraud and increasing fiscal sustainability in the long term. The minimum levels of excise duty rates in the Community are expected to be reached in accordance with the agreed transitional period, with an increase in the excise duty rates of cigarettes estimated for the period 2015-2017. Budget 2015 also lays down the maintenance of the amount and ratio of the social security contributions to the public funds and the participation of the State in the provision of the Fund by transferring the levels from 2014 and the amount of the sickness contribution at the same level as that of that year. For 2015 a maximum insurance income is fixed for all insured persons of BGN 2600. A reduction of staff costs without delegated budgets is envisaged by 10 percent in the budget area, which is related to an overview of administrative structures and their optimisation. In order to ensure the implementation and control of this measure and in accordance with the opportunities provided for in the Public Finance Act, the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 provides for the fixing of staff costs within the framework of the general budget costs of budgetary organisations. This size limitation does not imply a reduction in individual wage sizes. The measure requires and involves carrying out a functional analysis and review of the administrative structures of budgetary organisations and taking action by their managers for optimization. In the updated medium-term budget forecast, an increase in the minimum wage is proposed twice in 2015. From January 1st to reach BGN 360, and from July 1, 380 BGN. The next increase in the amount of the minimum wage is planned to take place from 1 January 2016 to size 420 BGN, and from 1 January 2017 to size 460 BGN respectively. With regard to pension policy, the Swiss rule and the update of pensions from 1 July 2015 continue to apply until 2015 with a percentage equal to the sum of 50 percent of the increase in social security income and 50 percent of the consumer price index in the previous calendar year. In the social sphere, priority remains to ensure the social protection of groups of the population through better focus on social aid, increasing the effectiveness of programmes, applying a differentiated approach, improving social assistance regulations and optimizing the institutional structure related to the social protection of the lowest income and risk groups of the population. The priorities to be addressed in the field of health care are emergency health care, e-health, drug policy, hospital care, mother and child health and, of course, reproductive health. The priorities aimed at education policy are ensuring equal access to quality education, vocational training and growth in all areas of the country, as well as improving the quality of higher education training based on compliance with the needs of the labour market. The efforts will be aimed at encouraging autonomous universities to continuously increase the quality of the offered education. To this end, it is necessary to assist educational institutions in introducing, developing and improving internal systems for assessing and maintaining the quality of training, as well as academic staff. The conditions of student lending are also a factor in helping students, PhD students and residents. In the field of science, the objectives are related to creating a favourable environment for career development of scientists, promoting the development of scientific activity through programming competition funding of fundamental and applied sciences, research into priority scientific fields and supporting the construction of a new generation of scientists. The successful implementation of the operational programmes co-financed by the EU funds will be key for the implementation of the priorities under the individual sectoral policies. In 2015, all operational programmes co-financed for the period 2007 - 2013 entered the final phase of implementation of the projects financed through them, which is why intensive payments under the programmes are expected by both the end of 2014 and in 2015. Budget policies with regard to municipalities are aimed at expanding the opportunities for their sustainable and balanced development. Activities continue to overcome accumulated internal disproportions between regions. In 2015, the implementation of operational projects aimed at generating employment and income in regions will continue. It is envisaged that the maximum amount of government debt by the end of 2015 will increase to 24,5 billion. BGN, the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product is expected to be 29.7 percent of the estimated gross domestic product. In 2015, the commitment of a new government debt of 8,1 billion is planned to provide a buffer to secure the short-term fluctuations of the fiscal reserve, financing the planned budget deficit for 2015 for the debt in circulation, which should be refinanced, as well as for a new loan from the European Investment Bank to provide funds to finance projects under the EU Structural Funds operational programmes and during the 2014-2020 programming period. In conclusion, the 2015 budget reflects the government's medium-term fiscal objective of eliminating budgetary imbalances and restoring budgetary position through successive steps to reduce the deficit. Budget 2015 is the first major step in fulfilling commitments to draw up a stable and realistic budget of the state. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Members, as Mrs Tsacheva has informed you, I will have to leave the Chamber shortly. I count on my fellow ministers to defend their positions in individual sectors and, of course, in a second vote to continue the debate on individual policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will now hear a summary of the Defence Committee report from Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u76	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Cabinet, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Yes, I intend to respect your recommendation to read only a summary of ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The Defence Committee met on 3 December 2014 and as a result of the discussion, I formulated the following conclusions and generalizations. First, the Defence Committee expresses its concern about the parameters set in the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2015. They do not correspond to the regulations adopted by the National Assembly and the commitments of our country to NATO. The project reduced defence costs by more than 66 million. lv. in comparison with the 2014 budget and entirely, which is disturbing, affect staff costs. Secondly, the Defence Committee considers that the possibility of restoring the impaired combatability of troops is questionable. In time, the modernization and re-arming of the army and the implementation of 55 objectives for the Alliance's collective defence capabilities are systematically postponed. The restrictive trend with regard to the budget framework by 2017 will affect the balance of the structures of the three types of armed forces and troops, will break the links in the organizational structure system and will make it difficult to carry out the missions of the Bulgarian Army. In general, another reduction in the financial framework of the defence sector will have a serious impact on the capabilities of the Armed Forces to fulfil their constitutional obligations and commitments on NATO and the European Union's collective defence in a difficult to predict military-political environment in close proximity to our country. By supporting the government's policy to secure the country's financial stability and financial consolidation through the 2015 State Budget Act, the Defence Commission calls for no reduction of personnel in the battle formations of the Bulgarian Army. The Commission proposes that during the implementation of the Republican budget in 2015 the indicators of defence expenditure should be reviewed and additional means provided to ensure the implementation of the main functions of the Bulgarian Army in the amount presented by the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Defence. Fourth, the Commission proposes that the amounts necessary for membership imports to NATO and cross-border missions of the Armed Forces responsible for the State be borne by the Republican Central Budget, without reducing the budget of the Ministry of Defence by these amounts. Following the final debates and the vote by all the Members of the Commission, the Commission's opinion is as follows: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first reading, a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, taking into account the remarks and recommendations in its part for the Ministry of Defence as indicated in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. With the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mrs. Jemma Grozdanova, requesting a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law No 402-01-7, on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At a regular meeting held on 3 December 2014, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The government's motives to the Bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rumen Alexandrov. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 is defined: revenue, expenditure, transfers and subsidies from the central budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Compared to the 2014 budget, the main indicators in the 2015 budget project are as follows for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: - The own revenues forecast for 2015 amounted to 67 million. lv. For 2014, own revenue is 62 million. lv. - The total cost of 2015 amounted to 120 million. 223,000. 500 leva. In 2014 the cost was 101 million. 372 thousand. £800. - The subsidy from the State budget for 2015 amounts to 53 million. 223,000. 500 leva. In 2014 the subsidy was 39 million. 372 thousand. £800. In response to questions and comments from the MPs, Deputy Minister Alexandrov informed the following. Despite the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2015, compared to the 2014 budget, namely an increase in revenue by 5 million. lv. and the cost of 18 million. 850,000. £700. There is essentially a real reduction in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2015 by 1 million. 209,000. £600. This is due to the fact that the cost of the feather is reduced by 2 million. 052,000. BGN, and by feather "Support" "Supports" are only increased by 842 thousand. £400. The increase in expenditure in Budget 2015 is entirely due to the transfer of administered expenditure from the central budget of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 060 thousand. 300 leva. are transferred from the central budget of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and are only administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but are not used for the needs of the Ministry. They are included in the budget of the Ministry to be directly translated into other international organizations and initiatives related to the international commitments of Bulgaria. These funds are used for membership in international organisations, the Bulgarian household of the Thirty-eighth Advisory Meeting of the States of the Antarctic Treaty; financing Bulgaria's contributions to NATO's budget for the new headquarters in Brussels, providing humanitarian aid and official development aid, etc. These expenditures in 2014 were not part of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and are not currently in substance in it. The estimated own revenues over the past five years have increased over 50%, while the subsidy from the state budget has decreased by three times. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 7 votes for the Council, 6 votes against the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstentions, proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 402 01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! On 3 December 2014, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee at its regular meeting examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. Representatives of all departments in respect of which the Commission exercises parliamentary control were present at the meeting. Just a few data, as I would like to present the report in summary, so that you do not get to know the whole report. With regard to the Ministry of Interior, the Deputy Minister present, Tzvetko Georgiev, stressed that there is budgetary tension in terms of covering expenses and the funds needed for the Perho Personal. On the other hand, the expected revenues for 2015 have also increased optimistically, given that the Ministry of Interior last year had been deprived of the largest income feather, namely the "Signature-security' activity. The other departments expressed satisfaction with the proposed figures in the budget, with the exception of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, where they are dissatisfied with the 3% reduction of the feather. A discussion was subsequently held in which the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Ivan Ivanov, Yavor Haytov, Valentin Radev, Svetoslav Belemezov and Atanas Atanasov took part. They raised various issues related to the clarification of the need for capital expenditure, the damage caused by the liquidation of the Signal-Safety activities and the removal of state-owned commercial companies from the Ministry of Interior system. A recommendation was also made to the Ministry of Interior to take administrative measures to optimize the composition and increase the efficiency of the Ministry. After all, as a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the Council of Bulgaria, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014 and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mr. Rumen Hristov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! A meeting was held on 4 December 2014, which discussed the State Budget Bill for 2015. The bill, in particular agriculture and agriculture, has the following basic parameters: 1. Draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The proposed expenditure ceiling of the ministry for 2015 is 227 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the In the context of current expenditure, funds of 15 million have been established. lv. for the provision of a public service to protect against the harmful effects of the waters entrusted to the Irrigation Systems. These funds cannot be redirected for other purposes. 2. According to the draft budget for the State Fund, the proposed expenditure ceiling of the State Fund is 366.5 million for 2015. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Cohesion Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European The single area payment scheme in 2015 provides for the use of 1, 255,8 million. lv. European funds for direct payments to farmers. In order to finance market measures, the total budget for 2015 amounts to 110,5 million. BGN, of which 74.1 million European funding and BGN 36.4 million National co-financing. For the implementation of the common agricultural and common fisheries policy, the funds for 2015, which our country plans to absorb under EU programmes without national co-financing, are for the agricultural policy. lv. and for maritime affairs and fisheries,.2.7 million. lv. The launch of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 is expected as regards both the maritime and fisheries programme for the same period. In addition, it is envisaged to maintain tax preferences for a reduced rate of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production, with 84 million established for this purpose. lv. The scheme will only be applied after the European Commission has given a decision to extend its duration. It is also envisaged to maintain the tax relief for registered farmers representing State aid in the form of the transfer of corporate tax of 60 per cent. The condition for implementing the aid is a positive decision by the European Commission on compatibility with State aid rules. As an element of the main assumptions in the updated medium-term budget forecast, it is envisaged to increase the minimum insurance income for farmers of 240 BGN. of 420 BGN, with effect from 2015 We strongly note that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has submitted an opinion in support of the bill, but at the same time strongly disagrees with regard to the increase of minimum insurance income for farmers, proposing that this measure be introduced from 2016 and that the levels of insurance for farmers be increased smoothly. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the parliamentary groups GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front and the ABB said they would support the bill and strongly supported the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, increasing the minimum insurance income for farmers to be introduced from 2016, and the levels of insurance for farmers to be gradually increased. People's representatives from the parliamentary groups of the BSP left Bulgaria and of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, of the Bulgarian Democratic Center and of the Political Party Ataka stated that they would not support the bill and also strongly announced against the planned increase of the minimum insurance income of farmers, but insisted that this measure be completely rejected for the entire programming period and not from 2016. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 8 votes against, and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u83	Thank you. Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its extraordinary meeting, held on 3 December 2014, examined and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 with the importer of the Council of Ministers. In 2015, the total expenditure in the social sector amounted to 11 307 million. lv. or 13.7% of GDP, with the largest share in the public sector, thus reaching 35.5% of GDP. The planned total cost of pensions for 2015 amounted to 8 373,7 million. lv. As regards social security in 2015, it is envisaged to maintain the amounts and ratios of contributions to the State's social security funds and the State's contribution to the Fund's contribution to the Fund by transferring the 2014 levels. Budget 2015 sets maximum insurance income for all insured persons in the amount of BGN 2600 and provides that this income will be maintained until 2017. From 1 January 2015 it is envisaged to level the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers with the minimum insurance income of the other self-insuring persons from 240 BGN. At 420 leva. The updated medium-term budgetary programme provides for an increase in the amount of minimum wage twice in 2015, respectively from 1 January to 360 BGN. and from 1 July... 380 BGN. The pension policy for 2015 provides for the continuation of the so-called Swiss rule on the update of pensions from 1 July 2015 by 1.9 per cent. As of 2015, the retirement age and the necessary insurance service to acquire pension rights have been increased by 4 months each year. The total expenditure foreseen for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2015 amounts to 1,101,38 million. lv. The budget is increased compared to 2014 by 39,8 million. BGN, with the cost of current transfers, benefits and aid to households increased by 959.5 million. lv. At 998,5 million. lv. In the employment policy area, the projected growth of 0.8 per cent for 2015 is expected to lead to a reduction in unemployment to 11.7 per cent, with the active labour market policy prioritising to unemployed persons from the unequal groups. The planned funds for this policy amount to 73 million. lv. The funds provided for the policy for people with disabilities amount to 193,8 million. And it's 12.3 million. lv. more than the 2014 budget funds provided for the social inclusion policy amount to 612,5 million. lv. And it's 19.0 million. lv. more than the 2014 budget Funds of more than BGN 17,0 million are provided. for the implementation of the personal assistance service for people with disabilities and the provision of employment and income to personal assistants. In the subsequent discussion, the representatives of Coalition BSP left Bulgaria and stated that they will not support the State Budget Bill for 2015. They believe that the proposed budget is passive, antisocial and burdened financially and tax the weakest strata of society. They believe that there is no policy in it to increase incomes, which will lead to a reduction in consumption. They point out that the funds envisaged for active labour market policy are extremely insufficient. The representatives of the DPS do not support the budget on the grounds that the 2015 budget is unrealistic and raises several risks, including a failure of the revenue side, a threat of exceeding the expected unemployment rate due to lack of funds. Representatives of employers' organisations voiced support for Budget 2015, motivated by the maintenance of tax rates, the balanced redeployment role of the budget, the reduced budget deficit, the 10 percent reduction in administration expenditure. Concerns were raised about a negative impact on economic growth from the increase in maximum social security income and the amount of minimum wage. The representatives of the CST spoke back and strongly disagreed with the proposed increase in age and internship for retirement. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: supposed to the National Assembly to support the Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2014 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers on art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. With the report of the Committee on Education and Science, Mrs. Milena Damyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u86	Madam President, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At its regular meeting held on 4 December 2014, the Committee on Education and Science examined for the first vote the Draft State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Prof. Nikolay Denkov and Vanya Kastreva, Deputy Ministers of Education and Science, Krasimir Valchev, Secretary General of the Ministry of Education and Science, Akad. Stefan Vodenicharov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, representatives of the academic community, trade union and employers' organizations in the field of secondary and higher education. The bill proposes that the total estimated expenditure for education for 2015 should be 3 044.9 million. lv. or 3.7% of gross domestic product. This amount generally retains the cost of education compared to 2014. The pre-school and school education system provides for the following basic programmes and activities to be financed: - Providing the educational and educational process in schools and kindergartens in the system of folk education. The costs of the program amount to nearly 1 592, 4 million. BGN, of which 1,664.4 million lv. are the means by standard. - Enhancing the scope and facilitating access to high-quality secondary education - 222.2 million were used. BGN, which includes expenses for the full-time organization of the school day, extracurricular and extracurricular activities, scholarships, transport, textbooks, meals. - Implementation of national programs for the development of secondary education and preservation and development of the cultural identity of children and students in Bulgarian communities abroad - 47 million were read. BGN, including 6 million lv. for Bulgarian Sunday schools abroad. The subsidy of state-owned universities amounts to 41,3 million. BGN 24,1 million lv. for the senior military schools of the Ministry of Defence. The increase of the subsidy is in two directions: 1) to support the training, which provides the growth of students with 4342 people and 2) increases the subsidy granted on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of the training. According to the science function, the subsidy for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is 72.8 million. lv. By the Ministry of Education and Science and 2.6 million lv. from the Ministry of Environment and Water. There is a minimal increase that should cover the higher amount of membership imports of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences at EUMETSAT. The funds for the Fund are 18.7 million. BGN and the national co-financing provided under the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union amounts to 5 million. lv. In the course of the discussion, a number of questions were raised regarding securing the financing of commitments under collective agreements, the maintenance of children with special educational needs, as well as the financing of protected schools. Attention was also paid to the fact that the funds for the transportation of students this year do not change, despite the increased costs of maintenance of the fleet. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science explained that the possible lack of funds in the system of folk education will be compensated through various financial mechanisms for correction of the number of students at stake. A question was also raised as to the possibilities for an increase in the subsidy provided for in the science function. The ministry officials replied that mechanisms for additional funding of the "Science" function were laid down when the revenue part of the budget was re-executed and the forthcoming adoption of the Higher Education Strategy would provide the necessary tools for the redistribution of funds in higher education to priority directions for training and quality research. The MPs agreed that the proposed draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 is in a realistic macrorama. After the discussion was completed and a vote with results was held:....... 11 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Report of the Committee on Children, Youth and
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At a regular meeting held on 4 December 2014, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. The bill was presented by Minister Krasen Kralev. Madam President, allow me to shorten the individual remarks to eleven items given in writing and to read the Commission's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u89	For which I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u90	After the end of the debates, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports held a vote which ended with the following results: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council on Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: supposed to vote in the vote in favour of the vote in favour of the vote in favour of the vote in favour of the vote in favour of the vote in favour of the vote is not accepted. 2. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. "Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u91	Thank you, Professor. Borisov. Following is the Report of the Committee on Health Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u92	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At its extraordinary meeting held together with the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy on 3 December 2014, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The bill and its motives were presented by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Vladislav Goranov. In the course of the discussion, the Minister of Health noted that the draft budget for 2015 of the Ministry of Health planned a level of expenditure to ensure the financing of the programmes and activities which, under the current legislation, are paid by means of the budget of the Office. The total planned expenditure of the Ministry of Health for 2015 amounts to 435 219,8 thousand. BGN, of which 420 219,8 thousand lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Capital expenditure. The budget of the Ministry of Health will finance programmes and activities carried out by public health budgetary structures, emergency aid, stationary psychiatric assistance, medical and social care for children, treatment abroad and others. National programmes and central supplies for the prevention, control and treatment of socially significant diseases, the provision of vaccines for mandatory immunizations and reimmunizations, as well as training for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system will be financially provided. The Minister of Health indicated that it is envisaged: an increase of 16 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN of the funds for vaccines for mandatory immunizations and reimmunizations; an increase of 6 million lv. of the budget expenditure needed for the activities of the Center for the Treatment of Children and an increase of 5 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. In the course of the discussion, the Minister of Health answered questions from MPs and outlined the main priorities in the implementation of the policy in its management, which will be: mother and child health, emergency medical care, the introduction of e-health, hospital care facilities, reproductive health and drug policy. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results: Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Committee on Environment and Water Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, I will present briefly the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014: At its regular meeting held on 4 December 2014, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Environment and Waters Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Minister, her political cabinet and Director of Resort Directorates. Minister Vasileva presented the draft state budget, in the part of the environment and budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water, stressing that environmental protection is a prerequisite for economic growth, new business opportunities, higher employment and more jobs, healthy lifestyles, security and social equality. One of the main highlights of environmental policy over the next forecast period should be the development of the environmental potential of the economy through the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies and industries. The draft State Budget Act 2015 defines revenue of 10 030 thousand. BGN, at 9,000 thousand. lv. for budget 2014, or an increase of 10,27%, expenditure of 43 481,9 thousand lv. At 43,954,3 thousand. lv. for 2014, i.e. there is a decrease of 2,09%. The estimated expenditures of the Ministry of Environment for 2015 are the highest for policy in the field of environmental protection and use of the components of the Ministry of Environment 19 766,9 thousand. BGN, for the program............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ BGN, and the policy in the field of the National Environmental Monitoring and Information Security System...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. As a significant moment Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva pointed out that higher levels could be improved in terms of revenues from concessions. The factors that will affect the achievement of this objective in the revenue section of the budget are an increase in the number of contracts concluded in order to concession mineral water for bottling, as well as the number of administrative services provided and the penalties imposed for non-compliance with environmental standards. After the opening of the debates, regarding the bill took: MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Dzhevdet Chakarov Manol Genov, Georgi Bozhinov, Ivan Valkov and Lyubomir Vladimirov. After the debate was terminated, a vote on the bill was announced, which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: no.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 11 votes............................................................................................................................. and 3 votes............................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on the Environment and Waters proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2..................................................... Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Karadjov with a résumé request.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u96	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 3 December 2014, a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. With your permission, Madam President, I will jump over the subjects present and discussed in our report, because you have it in writing and will only read the conclusion. The draft budget of the Communications Regulation Commission 2015 was also discussed at the Commission meeting. At its presentation the members of CRC expressed the opinion that the allocated revenues and expenditures in the draft budget for 2015 will not allow the Commission to perform both its main functions..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held. The difficulties of the National Company were discussed as a beneficiary of the Operational Programme "Transport" in relation to the payment of VAT because for the projects of the enterprise under the Operational Programme "Transport" the refundable VAT is an unacceptable cost. The need to find a long-term solution to address the problem has been stressed as the amount of VAT due will increase as the physical implementation of major infrastructure projects progresses in the period 2015-2017. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. A report from the Committee on Culture and Media follows. Here you go. The report is an extremely thorough summary of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u98	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 The Committee on Culture and Media at a meeting held on 4 December 2014 discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and the Council for Electronic Media took part in the discussion. The State budget for 2015 was presented by Mr. Vladimir Petrov, Director of the Department of State Expenditures. The 2015 draft budget provides for expenditure by the Ministry of Culture of 126 693.6 thousand. BGN, of which for current expenditure are 122 009,9 thousand. lv. and for capital expenditure 4,683,7 thousand. lv. The estimated amount of the central budget for the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency amounts to 4 385.0 thousand. lv. For the Council for Electronic Media, the 2015 State Budget Bill provides for revenue of 1,200,0 thousand. lv. and costs of 1, 229,5 thousand. lv. For the Bulgarian National Radio, the 2015 State Budget Bill provides 42 112.0 thousand. lv. The capital costs for radio and television amounted to 3,900.0 thousand. lv. 65 147 thousand BGN are provided for the Bulgarian National Television. The draft government budget provides for the management boards of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, to take the necessary action to reduce staff costs by 10 percent in 2015 compared to those established for 2014. During the discussion of the Bill, a question was raised by the Director-General of BTA in relation to § 8, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law. The Commission awaits the opinions of BTA and the Ministry of Finance on the issue of subsidy or transfer. After the debates held, the Committee on Culture and Media with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u99	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Report of the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. The President of the Commission, Mrs Marinska, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u100	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints at a meeting held on 4 December 2014, discussed a Draft Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and NGOs participated in the discussion. The State Budget for 2015 was presented by Mrs. Evgenia Orlova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Expenditures and the Ministry of Finance. The State Budget Framework 2015 and the forecast parameters by 2017 are based on a conservative forecast of the main macroeconomic indicators, a realistic estimate of revenue, as well as restrictive cost planning. In the medium term, an annual deficit reduction of 0.5 percent is planned to be 3% of gross domestic product for 2015. Tax insurance policy is oriented towards supporting economic growth, improving the business environment, limiting tax fraud and increasing fiscal sustainability in the long term. The successful implementation of operational programmes co-financed by European Union funds is key to individual sectoral policies. The 2015 State Budget Bill provides subsidies for non-profit legal entities of 63 010, 9 thousand. BGN, including: on the budgets of the ministries " 52 740.9 thousand lv. And 10,270,000. lv. on the central budget. The terms and procedure for the allocation of funds under the budgets of the relevant ministries are laid down in the relevant special laws which correspond to the provision of art. 4 of the Non-profit Legal Entities Act. In Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1 of the State Budget Bill 2015 lists 26 non-profit legal entities by name with subsidies from the central budget. These are organizations that are for people with disabilities, war veterans, rehabilitation and rehabilitation units, disadvantaged citizens, as well as: Union of the People's Chitalishtes; Bulgarian Red Cross, subsidised under the Law on the Bulgarian Red Cross; Rila World mansion The funds provided for are intended to support the implementation of the relevant policies. About the Bulgarian Red Cross with Annex No 5 to art. 49 of the bill is also provided for capital transfer of 1,000,0 thousand. lv. Total planned funds under the consolidated fiscal programme for non-profit legal entities amount to 165 600,0 thousand. BGN, including and the funds from municipalities, the financing of projects with beneficiaries of non-profit legal entities under the European Funds, as well as subsidies for non-public beneficiaries under the Rural Development Programme and the Operational Programme. After discussion and voting, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 8 Votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Let us now hear in a summary the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u102	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! At a regular meeting held on 4 December 2014, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Konstantin Penchev, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and representatives of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, the Department of Religions in the Council of Ministers, the State Agency for Refugees, the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, the State Agency for Child Protection and other representatives of NGOs. Of the institutions represented, whose budget is examined in the committee, only two are officers of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. As regards the secondary officers, it has been noted that the parameters laid down are not definitive and a change in their budgets is possible after the assessment of their principals. For the institution Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is provided a budget of BGN 2 347 000. Mr. Konstantin Penchev noted the fact that the budget of the institution for 2014 was reduced by more than 500 000 BGN. in relation to its 2013 budget and was insufficient for its normal functioning. He said that a serious cost is the rent that pays the institution for the use of the building in which the administration is housed. The planned budget for 2015 is increased, but it is also insufficient and will seriously hamper the institution's activities. He made a request to increase the budget by 250 000 BGN. During the discussion, MPs expressed their views in support of Budget 2015, expressing concern and committed to looking for an opportunity to increase funds for the Ombudsman institution. Opinions were expressed that the budgets of some institutions are insufficient as well. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 12 votes for abstention, 3 votes abstentions, without acknowledgment, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u103	A report on the Commission's first vote on anti-corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Mr. Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u104	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission on the presentation, discussion and adoption of a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers 1 December 2014 The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at its extraordinary meeting held on 4 December 2014 examined at first vote the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. For the first vote. The meeting was attended by representatives of two state committees Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Mrs. Snezhina Stefanova and Mrs. Diana Kunzova from the Commission for Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, and Mr. Ivo Ivanov and Mrs. Katerina Kolchakova from the Commission for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, on whose activity the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics carried out parliamentary control and accordingly took into account the parameters laid down for them in the State Budget Bill. During the debates, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov was heard, acting temporarily as President of the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest, which gave an opinion on the Commission's budget for preventing and establishing a conflict of interest reduced by 1.2% or 15 thousand. BGN, compared to the latest updates in the budget for 2014 carried out by the 40th and second National Assembly in the summer of 2014. Mr. Nikolov assessed the estimated 1 million. 233 thousand. lv. as fully sufficient to ensure the Commission's basic functioning in its current parameters. Mr. Ivo Ivanov, Vice-President of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, assessed the provisions under art. 30 of the Bill budget of 5 million. 132,000. lv. for extremely insufficient. He stressed that the law under which proceedings and court cases are still under way and the new Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property, which obliges the Commission to manage the secured property for which both this and the following year no funds have been provided. Mr. Ivanov also added that under the so-defined indicator of the Fund, a work salary will result in a real reduction of staff of the order of 20 people or 10% staff, which will further burden the work of the Commission, as it is currently very much as a volume. As a result of the subsequent debates between the MPs, the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics held a vote with results: 8 votes......................................................................... and zero votes..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u105	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Following is the report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. He will introduce us to her chairman Svetlin Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At the meeting held on 3 December 2014, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers. I. The 2015 State Budget Bill, which is accompanied by the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for 2015-2017, provides for the following parameters under the consolidated fiscal programme: - Revenue: 30 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. or Cost: 32 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Deficit: 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) It is envisaged that the maximum amount of government debt by the end of 2015 will amount to 24,5 billion. lv. or 29.7% of GDP compared to 22,5 billion. lv. or 27,6% at the end of 2014, which represents a projected debt growth of 2 billion. lv. for next year. The planned values of both the deficit and government debt remain within the reference values of the EU Stability and Growth Pact, which amount to 3% of GDP for the deficit and 60% of GDP for the debt, respectively. In view of the specific nature of its activities, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examines the parameters of the 2015 State Budget project concerning the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the General Budget of the European Union, as well as the planned revenue and expenditure under the European Union funds, including the EU Structural and Cohesion Funds, the Common Agricultural and Fisheries Policy and other European policies. II. Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the general budget of the European Union. Our country's main financial commitment to membership in the European Union is expressed in the national contribution to the European Union budget. It is intended to be 979,9 million for 2015. lv. During the implementation of expenditure policies under the European Union budget, there may be a change in the amount of Member States' national contributions, depending on the additional or unforeseen needs of funds, as well as in relation to the periodic updates of the VAT resource data and the gross national income resource with the latest available information to achieve greater accuracy. In addition, it should be borne in mind that, irrespective of the estimated data on customs revenue and charges on sugar and isoglucose production, Member States shall transfer the amounts actually collected for traditional own resources to the budget of the European Union. III. European Union funds planned revenue and expenditure 2015 It is envisaged that the aggregate amount of revenue, aid and donations under EU funds for 2015 will be 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 These include accounts for funds from the European Union of the National Fund, FF......................... and other programs and initiatives to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a partner country. The estimated aggregate expenditure for 2015 under European programmes and projects amounts to 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the In addition: 3,425.1 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. National co-financing. Operational programmes co-financed by the EU Structural and Cohesion Fund. In 2015, all operational programmes co-financed by the Structural and Cohesion Fund of the European Union 2007 The total revenue of the National Fund for European Union Funds for 2015 is estimated to amount to 2 billion. 122.6 million. BGN, and the cost of 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that State Fund................................................................................................. The total revenue of the State Fund is estimated to amount to 717 million in the EU funds account for 2015. BGN, and the expenses incurred by the Commission by the Court of Justice of the European Union, were EUR 964 million and the costs incurred by the Court of Justice of the European Union by the Court of Justice of the European Union and by the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter: "the Court of Justice of the European Union's Court of Justice of the European Union's Court of Common agricultural policy. Under the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, funds will be given to support farmers under direct payments and market support schemes. The single area payment scheme in 2015 provides for 1 billion to be used. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. direct payments to farmers "payments at the expense of the European Union. The total budget for financing market measures for 2015 amounts to 110,5 million. BGN, with the share of national co-financing of 36.4 million. BGN and the share of European co-financing amounted to 74.1 million. lv. Under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, funds for rural development will take place. For 2015 the funds that our country plans to absorb under EU programmes without co-financing are as follows: for the agricultural policy lv. and for maritime affairs and fisheries,.2.7 million. lv. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds with 11 votes for the European Union and 4 votes against the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014 and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Plamen Nunev, Vice-President of the Commission, will introduce us to the content of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications under the Draft State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The Commission for Control of the Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act at its regular meeting held on 4 December 2014 examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Vladimir Pizanchev, Vice-President of the State Agency of National Security, Vanya Stefanova and Nedyalko Nedyalkov, Vice-President of the National Intelligence Service; Biser Borisov, Deputy Chairman of the State Agency of Technical Operations and Mrs. Marinela Beleva from the Financial Service of the DATO; Brigadier General Dragomir Dimitrov, Director of the National Intelligence Service; Lieutenant General Angel Antonov, Head of the National Security Service; Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Commission on Information Security; Isidora Petkova, Director of the Directorate of Financial-Manage Activities, Management of Property and Human Resources at DCCI; Mr. Boyko Rashkov, Chairman of the National Office for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds; Mrs Momka Apostova, Chief Account; Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Advisor of Ms. Meglena Meglena. Minister of the Deputy Minister of the European Affairs. In the course of the discussion, the representatives of the National Intelligence Service, DXI, DATO and the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means as chief authorising officers stated that the fixed values in the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 are optimal, as regards the ultimate need for budget cuts. Detailed opinions were made by the representatives of the National Security Service and the State Agency "National Security" who put forward arguments for the lack of remuneration for "Persenal" and other operational funds. The Commission approved the proposed State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u109	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. And the latest report is from the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC. With the content of the report, we will be acquainted with its President, Mrs. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u110	Honourable President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! This Regulation of the Monitoring Commission of the SEWRC on Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At its meeting held together with the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Energy Commission on 3 December 2014, the Monitoring Commission of the SEWRC discussed the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Economy Mr. Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance and representatives of employers' and civil organizations. The state budget bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Ms. Karina Karaivanova. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova presented the parameters of the budget of the newly created Ministry of Energy Ms. Svetla Todorova presented the budget of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by explaining the way the Commission is financed and the implementation of the legal provisions. The Energy Act states that the Commission is an independent body financed by licence fees in cases where these licence fees are collected under a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. It shall be protected by the relevant costs of the Commission at the time of adoption. In cases where there is a shortage or surplus of revenue from these fees, then the Commission must make a proposal accordingly to amend the regulation. The Commission collects more than 10 million revenue from these licence fees. The 2014 budget provides for 4 million of its activities. lv. Practically, the Commission shall submit to the budget only on this item of licence fees, more than half of its revenue. Ms. Todorova said that if the assessment of the state in the face of the Ministry of Finance is that the Commission needs a maximum of four million for its maintenance, then this fee should be reduced. She explained that the budget envisaged was too insufficient in terms of the increasing powers and obligations of the Commission and asked for a review of this issue and for a fair budget to be set by the Commission which is at least half of what is collected as revenue from fees. In the subsequent discussion, representatives of Coalition BSP left Bulgaria said they would not support the State Budget Bill 2015 because they do not agree with the conservative approach in forming the revenue, with the cancellation of the public investment programme and with the recovery of fiscal policy that limits economic growth. The representatives of the DPS do not support the budget on the grounds that it is planned too carefully and in the presence of many macroeconomic discrepancies. The representatives of the Reformation bloc support the budget as it meets the objective conditions and is drawn up in accordance with the forecasts given by the European Commission and the World Bank for Bulgaria. The representatives of the Patriotic Front support the budget, with recommendations to the budget of the Ministry of Energy. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: without.... 4 votes against..... and 6 votes abstention................................................................................................ and 6 votes against.............................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 6 votes..... 4 votes against............................................................................................................... As a result of the discussion, the Monitoring Commission of the SEWRC proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft State Budget Act for 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. This concludes the reports of the Standing Committees. We heard a little earlier today on behalf of the importer, Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance. Now we are left to hear on behalf of the Supreme Judicial Council the proposal for a budget of the judiciary, then we will take a break and then we will move on to debates on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Uzunov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u112	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! Under the Judicial Law, the Supreme Judicial Council is a permanent body representing the judiciary and ensuring its independence, determining the composition and organisation of the work of the judiciary and managing its activities without prejudice to the independence of its bodies. The main principles in the preparation of the judiciary budget for 2015 are independence and reasonable sufficient resources for the proper functioning of the judiciary, the performance of functions and activities of the judiciary bodies. The draft of the judiciary reflects the desire to increase the effectiveness of the overall work of the judiciary at the level corresponding to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. The reform in this area is aimed at achieving equal access to justice and European standards in the field of legal aid, judicial enforcement and alternative dispute resolution. The estimates for the 2015 draft budget are fully in line with the additional priorities and measures of the Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary in the context of our full membership in the European Union. The objective needs of the number of magistrates and officers of the judiciary, determined in relation to the number of legal proceedings and the rate of their increase, are used in their preparation. The data are drawn up on the basis of optimal estimates necessary for the normal functioning and providing quick justice, providing the necessary means in relation to the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, as well as changes to other regulations. The reports were prepared on the basis of the instructions of the Ministry of Finance for preparing the draft budget for 2015, as well as updated budget forecasts for 2016 and 2017. The draft budget of the judiciary is set out in seven policies, each of which has the respective programmes. They are as follows: Policy 1 - Implementation of justice and judicial authority in order to protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, legal persons and the state. It includes the activities of all courts in the Republic of Bulgaria. Three programmes are divided into this policy. Policy 2....................................................................................... It includes the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. Four programs are set up here. Policy 3 "Management and organization of the work of the judiciary without violating its independence. It includes the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council. Three programmes are divided into this policy. Policy 4.................................................................................................... It includes the activities of the National Institute of Justice. There are three programs. The next policy is to control the judicial authorities based on the principle of legality, objectivity and publicity. The fifth policy includes the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, with three programmes included in it. Politics 6 "Unified Information System for Countering Crime." Policy 7................................................................................................. According to the Council of Ministers' proposal for the draft budget of the judiciary for 2015, the projected revenues under the judiciary budget amounted to 127 million and the expenditures of 460 million. On a proposal from the Supreme Judicial Council, the projected revenues amount to 127 million too. In determining the amount of this part of the revenue under the budget of the judiciary, both the course of implementation of this indicator so far and the current Tariff No 1 of the Law on State Fees were taken into account. It should also be borne in mind that the growth of legal proceedings is not possible to relate to a significant increase in the proceeds of judicial fees due to the high proportion of criminal and administrative proceedings exempted under the law. In the 2015 draft budget proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council, the necessary costs to secure the functioning of the judiciary amounted to 543 million. 740,000. lv. All the expenses foreseen under the draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council are borne by the activities under the law, there is no unnecessary expenditure here. The increase in costs is the result of upcoming regulatory changes to increase the amount of insurance contributions, as well as in relation to the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Means are needed to reveal a contour for public access to the core of the Single Crime Counteraction Information System, which contains data specified by law. Resource security with staff is envisaged, which will contribute to increasing the efficiency of the judiciary's activities in relation to the requirements of the Judicial Law, establishing mechanisms for access to information in order to increase public confidence in the judiciary, as well as normalising financial relations with the participants in the judicial process. The fourth year in a row has established state numbers, in which the free numbers for magistrates, currently around 500, are not secured by salaries. So far, competitions have been held at the expense of economy from other feathers, but in the future, competitions can no longer be held without guaranteeing wage funds for these magistrates, which means one single thing "that the Supreme Judicial Council will be forced to violate the law. The number of cases is increasing, while increasing the requirements for law enforcement, increasing maintenance. Every year the cost of water, heating, electricity and others is increasing. Therefore, it reduces money for real justice, the system has no money for judicial translators and experts, it cannot afford quality information systems, computers. The courts cannot carry out the usual activity with a technique that is more than 6 years old. Computers, printers, servers, and no new software can be used. Permanent improvement of computer and office equipment is needed, given the constant improvement of software for automated management of electronic lawsuits. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for the implementation of the policies and programmes for 2015, as set out in the updated Strategy for Reform of the Bulgarian Judicial System, an increase in costs is necessary under the proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council for Financial Security of the Judicial Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Supreme Judicial Council are very responsible and we understand that in a period of severe financial crisis it is not right to point out only the problems of the judiciary as more important than those of other institutions. The funds set out in the draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council are necessary to ensure the proper conduct of the work and to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the judiciary in order to achieve the objectives set before the judiciary. In conclusion, I hope that you will vote on a budget that will allow the entire judiciary to work normally in order to meet the objectives set by the Bulgarian society, by the government, the European Union and at last to close Chapter twenty-four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u113	Thank you. I call a break until 3:30, then we begin the debate on the bill. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u114	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. I open the debates on the Draft Law on the Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Until now Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and Mr. Imamov signed up for the speech. I'm expecting Mr. Rumen Gechev. The word for speech is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Today, once again for this year, we will consider and adopt the state's annual financial plan. In previous years the budget was placed different titles where successful, where less successful. If we are looking for a definition of Budget 2015, I would call it the budget of the required budget. However, before we talk about 2015 we need to say what happens to public finances in 2014, after the mismanagement of Oresharski. First, the default of revenue by 1 billion. lv. This was clear last year at this time when we debated and adopted Budget 2014 and in the middle of the year you yourself acknowledged it with your proposal for an update of the budget. Secondly, a very good cost-saving process - not only those provided for in the Budget Act, but also other costs adopted during the year by different laws, but without being financially secured. Reference: The Ministry of Interior Act......................................................................................................... Thirdly, stopped European funds. And not only stopped European funds, but stopped by the state to pay to performers. What does that lead to? Firstly, until the money has failed under the operational programmes, until they are closed down, to the creation of problems for the executive companies and municipalities beneficiaries, as well as an additional deficit for 2014 only from these European programmes. Fourth, the CCB case with direct, measurable budgetary implications of an additional debt of 2 billion. BGN, and indirectly for the economy, which analysts are yet to calculate and which we are yet to calculate in the next budgets. Fifth, record debt, record deficit close to 3 billion. lv.! The situation may be similar to that of 2009, only now there is no global economic crisis, but on the other hand we have our political crisis and I would call it the disaster the BSP is managing! [[(Replyings and calls from the left: "Eee! ") (Applause from GERB.)]] For those who have forgotten, I recall that after three and a half years of management of GERB, fiscal consolidation of the budget had reached at the end of 2012. 0.45... [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u116	Colleagues, please! Don't call from the spot! You will be able to replicate in the way provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u117	To repeat: 0,45% of gross domestic product at the end of 2012 to reach only a year and a half after the management of BSP up to 3.7% of gross domestic product! What does Budget 2015 have to do? First of all, and most importantly, the country must stop its steep descent down the spiral of financial deficits. And, unfortunately, going back to square one, to start financial consolidation of the budget. Secondly, to restore consumer confidence by guaranteeing them stability and predictability of the economic environment. Thirdly, to provide financial resources to pay performers under operational programmes in order to have minimal losses of funds in the last year of the old programming period, but also to provide resources for the rapid start of the new European operational programmes, including through the advance financing of expenditure on them, which will lead to the injection of fresh resources into the economy for 2015. Fourth, to ensure the start of several important programmes: the energy efficiency programme by renovation of housing, for which 150 million are allocated; the administrative reform, the reduction of state officials, of course by pressure on the costs of salaries, of 300 million; to expand the support of people in disabilities through the social system, and not through taxes and prices, as was the practice of the government in question. 40 million. To expand the policy of state support of Bulgarian farmers "to those who need this support: farmers, beekeepers, fishermen, and not only those who receive the decare. To continue the reform of education, an additional 90 million for secondary education, part of them through the increased funding standard mainly for paying the employed there, part of them for the full-time organisation of the metropolitan schools. Higher education: an additional 26 million to be provided to state universities under the Complex Assessment Mechanism. Fifthly, health reform, etc., etc. How will it achieve this Budget 2015? Difficult, very difficult, because the economic situation in Europe and in the world is not optimistic. The recovery of the world economy continues to be unstable. The European economy is recovering at a slow pace, and the complicated political relations have and will continue to exert their negative influence in 2015 as well. Against this background for Bulgaria, serious growth of the economy cannot be expected. For this reason, the indicators in Budget 2015 are planned to be extremely conservative: 0,8 growth of gross domestic product; 11.7 "employment rate, low drop of 0,1; average annual inflation - 0,1, minimal growth, although for 2014 we expect a deflation of 1,5; accelerated growth of exports of goods and services to 2,9%, and on this basis, naturally, an increase of revenue compared to expected implementation for 2014 by 430 million on a consolidated basis, including 613 million of tax revenue, as well as a reduction of costs - 74 million on a consolidated basis. Overall, the increase in revenue and the reduction in expenditure as expected for 2014 will go to reduce the budget deficit from 3.7 to 3%. And for 2015 it will be 2 billion. 489 million. Critics on every budget has and depending on whether they are left or right, whether their economic thinking is rather left or right they criticize revenue first. They say: The incomes are underestimated because growth is undervalued because the government wants to overrun its spending outside the budget and: the incomes are overvalued, there are no buffers and that is very bad, but it is deliberately done so that the government can spend more. All heard from this tribune of accusations. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] No, honourable Members, for 2015 the revenues are conservative and realistically planned to ensure that we will not be re-upped in 2015, as well as to put, I would say, a fruitful cost pressure, which the expenditure will put on reforms in the various sectoral policies. And the whole overexecution of revenues, if any, if it happens next year, will go to reduce the deficit and accelerate the consolidation of the Bulgarian budget. There is usually another criticism: the expenditure envisaged in the budget does not sufficiently provide for the functioning of the different sectoral systems, and we begin to list them: healthcare is so short, education is so short and so on and so forth. As much as we make, dear colleagues, we can spend. Even in 2015, we'll spend 2 1/2 billion more than we'll make. We should all be aware that through the budget, or rather through budget expenditure, the problems of the state and the economy cannot be solved. The state through the budget alienates people and businesses around 35 " 37% of what they have created and with these funds it can provide only the most important systems - social, security, health, education. That is why I continue to wonder why the whole country has been staring at the adoption or update of the budgets that we are making here. Expectations for these budgets are unrealistic and we are all contributing to this - politicians, trade unions, media. My fellow Members, partners and opposition, I call on you from this platform to give Bulgaria a chance by adopting Budget 2015, which will provide stability, calmness, security and opportunity for development. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Come in from downtown.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you started your speech by searching for the budget definitions and found the definition that this is the possible budget. I wish we could think a little bit about this, starting with the main indicator set in this budget, and it is planned to grow by 0.8%. I am interested in both the political and economic motives for the so planned growth. If we think on the political motives, it is pretty much clear to us why this is because a governing majority of eagles, cancer, pikes and so much more is possible. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] If we think on the economic motives, it is normal that the Minister of Economy is a member of the Regional Inspectorate of Education, Ruse, as much as they can, possibly and that is why growth is so at stake. My definition, Mrs. Stoyanova, in relation to the budget, could be as follows: if we made an announcement from Mr. Djankov's lean pizza, now a slightly different version of this lean pizza, I would call it a four-wick dynamite pizza. Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u120	Second line? There will be no Mr. Chobanov giving up. Any other MPs? A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova. I remind you that the lines come in the time of the parliamentary groups. Upon completion of the duplicate, I will remind you of the minutes available to each group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u121	Mrs. Ahmedova, I was thinking about not doing your doppelganger, because your statement didn't have much content for the doppelganger. [[Applause from GERB]] But I still want to tell you that it's very easy to criticize, especially when you don't manage and soon you won't rule. [[Applause and laughter by GERB.]] That's the best position. I've missed this position, a year and two months has been very pleasant. Unfortunately, the people said that we should rule because they trust us. [[Comments from GERB: "For joy, for joy! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u122	Why sadly?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u123	Unfortunately for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u124	The time available to the parliamentary groups is: the group of GERB - 30 minutes; BSP left Bulgaria - 18 minutes; Movement for Rights and Freedoms - 17 minutes; Reformer's block - 13 minutes; Patriotic front - 12 minutes; Bulgarian Democratic Center - 11 minutes; Ataka - 10 minutes; ABB - 10 minutes - not members of the parliamentary group - 5 minutes. This time may be extended by one third at the request of any of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Imamov has the word to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u125	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Listening to Mrs. Stoyanova, I reminded myself of a statement which will, in any event, manifest itself in today's debates "When the facts are against you, so much worse for the facts." I will speak with facts and share our assessments of the macro-frame of the Budget Project, which are based on comparative analysis in dynamics and structure on the main indicators of the budgetary process. There is no doubt that the proposed project for the financial plan of the state is built on unrealistic forecasts for the socio-economic development of Bulgaria in recent years. The forecast for real economic growth for 2015 is 0.8%. The overall assessment is that this forecast is greatly reduced. The comparative analysis of the links between the different macroeconomic indicators and their dynamics confirms strongly that almost all forecasts are made in a very pessimistic scenario. For example, the assessment of the potential for the 2015 economic growth is 1.6%, which means that the actual growth of 0.8% in the budget as a target is twice as low as our economy's next year. The absolute amount of nominal gross domestic product next year compared to the current one is expected to grow by only 1 billion. lv. It's only a billion dollars. lv.! It's a rare occurrence. The current 2014 is also expected to end with economic growth above 1,5%. It turns out that the return to the achieved growth in 2014 is planned to take place only in 2016. The current 2014 is defined as the year of political instability, which should suppress the economic instability in Bulgaria. It is logical to expect that macroeconomic indicators this year will be worst compared to the coming years. That's true, but it's not. In these comparative growth estimates for the three consecutive growth years, several important questions arise, the answers to which are directly related to the conclusion of the pessimistic scenario. First question. Why the politically unstable 2014 and so fiercely criticised coalition government of Oresharski generate almost twice as much economic growth as planned growth for 2015. ? 0.8%? Question two. In the short-term 3-year budget forecast, real economic growth is expected to rise to 1,5% in 2016, i.e. to the level of politically unstable 2014. Can it be said that what was done during this politically unstable 2014 will only be reached in two years? Question three. In 2015, growth is also expected to reach 1,5% in the European Union. This is almost twice as much growth as planned in Bulgaria's budget next year. Usually in comparison between the European Union and Bulgaria, the ratios are in the opposite direction because the Bulgarian economy provides a relatively low basis for comparison, which implies a higher indicator of growth under equal conditions. Abandoned ones always grow faster. It is unlikely that anyone will object that economic growth as the most synthesized indicator of economic activity is the main economic task of any government today to ensure higher growth, to lead Bulgaria out of the phase of depression in the direction of the long-awaited economic revival. The budget project, the exit from depression and the transition to the recovery phase are postponed for an unknown time. It is obvious that for 2015 an unexplained growth gap is envisaged, which is characteristic of the years of recession. The Bulgarian economy is definitely not in a recession phase since mid-2010. Doubts on the objectivity of the forecasts of macroeconomic indicators also create the approach in determining an evenly uniform rate of change for the 3 year period of the budget forecast. For example, the deficit for 2015 should be 3%, for 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 2 percent. Elementary and easy to arbitrary rate of deficit reduction by one step of half a percent. This approach is based on the assumption of an elementary linear negative trend. This assumption is not supported by any analytical arguments. Almost the same approach has been applied to other indicators, such as an amendment of the common costs of the consolidated fiscal programme. It is unrealistic to expect the main engine of growth to be consumption. The role of investments, the role of the trade balance, as well as the price dynamics of energy carriers is underestimated. Overall, the new reform model for accelerated economic growth lacks what Bulgaria needs so much today. With regard to tax policy, we must recall that, as an automatic regulator of economic processes, it is also mistaken. As is known, in the economic revival, the tax burden of spending on the economy is to protect it from overheating, and in a crisis the tax burden decreases to stimulate economic activity. In the draft budget, the tax burden increases, especially for several groups of the population. This trend is in complete contradiction with the underestimated macroeconomic indicators. Data on the development of the Bulgarian economy during the current year show that there is no serious risk of a possible increase in salary next year. For the first half of the current year, the average annual salary in Bulgaria increases 2.3%. The growth of total labour productivity is 1.3% and in the industry is 3.3%. Labour productivity is known to be a determining factor and indicator of wage growth. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. The 2015 budget can be defined as a budget of continuing depression in the economy and deepening poverty. This is a budget that is amazingly similar to the budgets from the early period of Minister Djankov. The pizza box, ladies and gentlemen, which we are offered today for next year, has a double bottom. The very low macroeconomic indicators aim to re-insure the deficit at stake, to implement the revenue plan, to provide additional funds to increase the prime minister's pocket money in the framework of the so-called "opportunity reserve" by reaching into the farmers' pocket, small businesses with increased social and health insurance contributions by depriving low-income groups of the ability to obtain State-sponsored tax on their minimum income. There is no doubt that all this guarantees the achievement of the main priority for financial stability set out in the budget. But all of this, ladies and gentlemen, means that Bulgaria will continue to be the most stable poor in the European Union, without any hopes and prospects for a start-up increase in incomes and improving the standard of living. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Rumen Gechev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u127	Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, it is indeed a budget of economic stagnation and deepening the gap between poor and rich. Why? Dear colleagues, there are disputes between economists from around the world about what the model of economic development should be and what the budget should be, fiscal policy. However, there is no doubt that disputes are about how to increase gross domestic product, how to change its structure, how to improve the efficiency of its production, how to increase economic growth. Without increasing the cake the gross domestic product, without economic growth there is no increase in living standard. That is why we also believe that the set indicators of economic growth are startling. Dear colleagues, you bet in 2015. 0,8 economic growth. Why? After the numbers are as follows: the world economy of 3.3 in 2014 rose to 3,8 and 4,1 "2016." As regards the European Union: from 1.3 per cent this year, at 1,5 per cent this year, 2% next year, at the end of the period. The world economy is on the rise. The European economy is on the rise. Let's see what happens to our main trading partners. Italy more than 1%, to 1,5%; Germany more than 2%, 1.9; Spain more than 1.8%. Even countries such as Greece, which are bankrupt until last year, Greece has staked 2.3 per cent, Turkey is 3.25%, a major partner. Let's see the former socialist countries that we compare ourselves with: Poland - 3%, Hungary - over 2%, Czech Republic - 2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, where do you draw the Bulgarian economy? In addition, last year and this year you are inheriting the economy of the first half of the year is moving 1.9. For what reason in 2015 are you betting a direction opposite to the world economy opposite to the European Union, opposite to the bankrupt countries around us in the Balkans? And there's no explanation for that. Since you have staked this miserable growth of 0.8, there is no way the other budgetary indicators can be tied. Secondly, the share of budget expenditure in gross domestic product. Honourable Members, we best say to you: log on to the Internet and you will see that the share of budget expenditure in the EU's gross domestic product There is no developed country in the world where budget expenditure is not close to 50% of gross domestic product. You're betting on reverse logic again. Unheard of even for textbooks. What do Bulgarians do? From 40% you drop to 38% with a three-year period. Well, the Federal Republic of Germany has upped to 57%, honourable Members, to get out of recession. I mean, there's something wrong here, and I can't figure out what theory this policy of budget cuts in gross domestic product is, which is exactly the opposite of what the United States and Canada and Germany and France and Japan are doing to get out of the crisis. I'm telling you this best. There is no way to press the foot brake, pull the hand brake and wait for the Bulgarian economy to come out of the crisis. In third place, we do not understand why you are excluding a budget investment programme from Budget 2015?! There's nothing ideological about it. We are proposing what is enshrined in the programme and the European Union's new reindustrialisation programme. You must have heard and I welcome Prime Minister Borisov, who said he supports the European Union's new policy for a massive public investment and a 300 billion programme. Euros posted by Mr Juncker. What are we doing in Bulgaria? The whole of Europe has set aside public funds for investments and their realization through a public private partnership. What are we doing? We had 640 million. lv. Last year. Instead of starting to increase investment funds, pouring in the motor of the Bulgarian economy through the market, through a public private partnership, we withdraw the funds and expect some economic growth. Moreover, our country is in a very difficult situation. We politicians have failed all major investment projects, honourable colleagues, in recent years. What do we want now? I'm looking at Budget 2015. We're gonna install panels, we're gonna landscape the pre-block spaces, and we're gonna pull. Where? In front of the Federal Republic of Germany and Japan?! What are Bulgaria's projects in the coming years, honourable Members? Which industries will we develop? There's not a single firm. What big energy projects? None. We have buried four projects, and we will expect panel renovations to pull economic growth. There's no way to go more than 0,6. In fourth place, the colossal government debt impresses. Excuse me, this is outrageous! In Bulgaria's latest history, a debt of 8 billion. 100 million in a year is gone. We remember your speeches, fellow Members, when we asked for 1.5 billion. EUR debt to repay an old debt from 2002 and we have secured the funds for 15 January 2015. You want 8 billion. 100 million. debt only in 2015. Excuse me, on the one hand, the budget deficit is on the brink of 3%. You raise the debt by 8 billion and what do you offer us? Some tiny economic growth of 0.8 and freezing people's incomes. In conclusion, I would say, honourable Members: look in the mirror at what is going on with your budget programme. Figuratively speaking, you swim across the pool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u128	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! I will hardly say anything new, but you should hear it: Budget 2015 is completely antisocial, not that previous budgets were social. It is entirely in favor, as in other years, of the parties "the parliamentary represented" and in favour of the new Bulgarian nomenclature. I will refer specifically to three feathers, three sectors in which it is imperative that the National Assembly take an attitude 25 years after the beginning of the transition. Three places that have been considered so far and are still considered untouchable. First of all, I will start with subsidies for political parties in Budget 2015, as I have before me the opinion of a group of experts led by journalist Paun Tsonev, whose opinion was published in the newspaper. "Press" and other publications. From this comparative reference, from this comparative analysis, which the honourable colleague made, it is evident that the party subsidies in Bulgaria are absurd, cynical and ridiculous, because in the last ten years the political class has increased precisely ten times the party subsidies paid by the state budget, namely from lev and something to date. to a vote received in parliamentary elections. What's going on? That the poorest country in the European Union pays the taxpayers' money the most expensive party subsidies. Immediately, to see that I do not speak naked words, here are the facts of the situation in the European Union. The richest European state "Germany" allocates 50 euro cents to the MP. In Bulgaria is 5 euros and 50 euros. In Greece this year, party subsidies have been cut in half and are now 60 euro cents. We're almost ten times as much. In Italy, the government under the pressure of Grillo's party gradually decided to reduce subsidies and are currently being reduced from 4 euros to 2 euros (Italy), one of the bikes of the European economy. In short: the average amount of subsidy for political parties in Europe is 3.5 euros and even in Macedonia the party subsidy is 11 times lower than the Bulgarian one lev. In 2013 the state budget paid 45 million. lv. I know this topic is not new because Mr. Georgi Kadiev tried to push this into parliament last year, but even his own party blocked it. Therefore, between first and second reading I will propose a reduction of the state subsidy for the parties from 11 to 5 BGN. The second budgetary sphere, which swallows money, and I would not say particularly fair, this is the administration of Head of State Rosen Plevneliev. For 2015 6 million are envisaged. lv. in President Plevneliev's budget. For comparison, his budget was 5 million last year. Five hundred thousand. BGN, but at the end of the year, remember, I asked Mr. Bliznashki of this tribune why he gave President Plevneliev an additional 1 million. lv.? As he said, "For his dignity and for his warlords, travel abroad. " Let me tell you something important that you may not know or have missed in the administration of the Head of State 158 people work on information from last year. Remember how democracy started in Bulgaria. How many people worked for the first head of state then, Mr. Zhelyo Zhelev? The last black hole where the people's money is leaking, I stress this, the people are leaking into the so-called Pretorian Guard of Bulgaria. The Praetorian Guard of Bulgaria, with the best attitude, of course, to the National Security Service. This year we have to give her 31 million. lv. For comparison, to see how illogical and, I would say, unpatriotically we work as MPs, I will tell you that the National Intelligence Service, which, at least in my opinion, is far more important than the Security Office of the new Bulgarian nomenclature, receives 14 million. lv. less. So Bulgaria's foreign intelligence, which works and has to work in conditions of growing terrorist danger, against the backdrop of an existing Islamic state, against the backdrop of the processes in the Balkans in general and especially because of the radical Islam factor, receives 14 million. lv. less, and with 14 million more, the Office for the Protection of Ten People in the State receives this space sum of 31 million. lv. Indeed, this office's budget was reduced last year, but that is not enough. I ask you: support these proposals between first and second readings. I know it sounds radical.. reducing the subsidy of the political parties and the other proposals I made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u131	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will give you the conclusions of the economic analysis, which made our Parliamentary Group Bulgarian Democratic Center. With our proposed budget once again the ruling country coalition of parties neglects its responsibility to define and defend national priorities and a clear vision for economic development. Compliance with the Lisbon Agreement to limit the budget deficit to 3% of gross domestic product will guarantee financial stability of the country, but can hardly be accepted as a national ideal. This budget is a budget of survival, not growth. The philosophy of the budget is aimed at increasing the tax burden on citizens and businesses and ensuring only social payments. They increase the tax burden for the most active citizens the active 1 million, which is the basis of the Bulgarian economy, especially in the service sector. In practice, income is taken away from people who are most active on the consumer market with the increase of maximum insurance income by 200 BGN. Up to 2,000. £600.; the increase of the minimum insurance income of farmers to 420 BGN; the increase in minimum insurance thresholds by about 4%; the increase in the period on which benefits for pregnancy and birth are calculated from 18 to 24 months, directly hits mothers at the youngest age and in a clear cut with the government's stated intentions to deal with the demographic catastrophe. There's no state-of-the-art approach. The set parameters of the budget, the relationship with reality is visible through the eyes of the clerk who is trying to make ends meet instead of creating opportunities for growth of the economy. The projected growth of gross domestic product of 0.8% does not correspond to changes in the tax burden, which talks about uncertainty of expectations in the revenue section or about Djankovski conservatism in the budgetary approach, refusal of reforms and demand for opportunities. Based on the policy of belt tightening and the expected absorption of European funds through the budget. This gives only opportunities for a relative reduction of the deficit, fictitiously achieving positive financial and fiscal results, without a chance to revive the economy and the real sector. There are hidden concerns about guaranteeing the revenue, mainly in traditionally delicate areas such as the collection of excise duties and duties. This is offset by increasing the tax burden on citizens and businesses. Instead, it is the collection and structures related to it that are subject to reforms and a reduction in corruption practices. The budget does not give a clear forecast of the effect on the economy in reducing the price of oil and energy carriers, which is becoming increasingly clear on international markets. The tourism revenues are also threatened due to the already emerging tide of requests from Russian and Ukrainian tourists and tour operators for the next season. The expenditure part lacks indications of expected implementation of reforms. For example, the reduction of staff costs in the budget area by 10% is intended to be achieved by, I quote: "Functional analysis and review of the administrative structures of budgetary organisations and taking action for their optimization, and the limitation of the amount of expenditure does not imply a reduction in the individual size of salaries. Nonsense, which in practice means only a hidden request for cuts of employees in the administration, but not an improvement in its effectiveness. Non-compliance with market logic in the expenditure section is particularly visible in particular in education. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Five hundred thousand. lv. to finance the higher admission of students and PhD students, provided that the number of graduates in the last four years falls steadily? At 50,000. Graduates of secondary education expect 50,000. students. The budget has excessive buffers, which continues the policy of planning reduced budget revenues and forming budget surpluses to be spent opaque by the government. At the same time, only 70 thousand are envisaged in the budget. lv. to prevent, control and address the effects of disasters, provided that for 2014, the budget implementation is 120 thousand. lv. This feather will clearly be in deficit, given the frequent floods this year, including at the moment it is clear that serious means will be needed to deal with the consequences of what has happened so far and to compensate the affected citizens and improve the infrastructure to avoid such problems. There is not a word in the budget about e-government, and e-health is mentioned, by the way. The lack of commitments and clear financial parameters on the issue is a request for refusal to conduct a policy in these directions, which is also contrary to the requested programme of the government. The general downside of the budget is that it is highly partnered. The changes to the previous one are aimed at meeting the party's separative demands from the ruling coalition. An example of this is the increase in the minimum wage, which is unjustified economically. In view of this, there are no measures in Budget 2015 to stimulate economic growth to increase employment and increase the well-being of Bulgarian citizens, and instead there is an unjustified waste of national resources, unformed structures and policies. The Bulgarian Democratic Center cannot support the proposed project. In it, the set parameters are not in line with the changed macroeconomic environment and differ from the underlying assumptions for a smooth recovery of the country's economy. Tax insurance policy is not oriented towards supporting economic growth, improving the business environment, as well as limiting tax fraud and increasing fiscal sustainability in the long term. The credit for the private sector will be restored very slowly, the dangers to the banking system are not over. There is no will to combine budgetary mechanisms with European funds to stimulate private activity and small and medium-sized businesses to ensure a sustainable environment in the labour market. It does not create conditions for sustainable economic growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, social inclusion and territorial approach. [[Applause from GERB.]] It does not help build a competitive economy based on knowledge and innovation. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u132	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u134	Thank you, Mr. Peichev. Quiet, please! - What's the line? I won't. The next statement is Mr. Dimitrov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Cabinet of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We are confident that we cannot expect miracles in a month. The office had two tasks ahead of it: to make the elections and update the budget. One task succeeded, the other so made it so that it had to have a new update. The cabinet, which is at the moment, has made the sensible and possible "updates the 2014 budget and has tabled a new budget for 2015, which we are debating today. I would like to say immediately that the Patriot Front Group will support the budget at first reading. Of course, we are waiting for an answer to the situation "The Ghost KTB" "How many opportunities for municipalities, education, culture and social activity have erased this amount that we currently need to draw and solve other issues?" Waiting for the answer to the question do we have bank supervision, or do we have a supervisory umbrella because there are 29 banks left? Will the same people protect us and control how they work? We have reservations, of course, to the size of the budget for education, defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Agency for Bulgarians abroad. Of course, we will comment between the two readings. We hope this will happen within the framework of constructiveism and equality. We hope to discuss all critical parameters and sectoral policies, including retirement age. He's gone, but dear Prime Minister, every government is a hostage to what happened before him in Customs. To them are now added the banks, the unreformed health care, but also the stopped EU funds. This budget is not the best thing to do. He's bad, restrictive, but he's only possible and viable. We expect from you and demand an increase in revenue collected by the customs administration, we expect this to happen and the government to end the vicious practice of marriage to the mafia. We want a fight with her! We are waiting for the temporary establishment of a working committee on measuring instruments for cigarettes and alcohol and their introduction. For fuels this issue is solved and the 1st will enter into force. The customs administration expects to establish a transit control centre and a control centre for excise and risk goods. We expect collection, respectively the execution of revenues not only from legal economic entities and operators, but also from illegal ones, because in the current budget and in the whole policy we are targeting people who are paying any amounts in the budget anyway. We want to get to those who are smuggling. No more parasols! We expect reforms in the health system and, of course, revision in energy. In fulfilling the so-called testament objective of adopting Budget 2015, we have tried and discussed together, and we have adopted a package of tax laws and changes in them. We believe this procedure will continue. We are waiting for a reform, a revision of energy, an increase in revenue revenues and a restructuring of the administration. The patriotic front will support proposals from the Council of Ministers at first reading and will make additional adjustments. Thank you. [[Single applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u136	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! It is clear how the Reformation bloc will vote on this budget. It is also clear that he will be accepted. So to a large extent, this whole debate can be considered unnecessary, but it must be anything else, not unnecessary. This Parliament has emerged for this long before all the other functions it performs today have been created to monitor public revenue and expenditure and to remove them from the government's direct controlless power, whatever it may be. The long tradition of the Bulgarian National Assembly to vote on the budgets has irreparably degenerated into bad budgets such as the one we will vote at first reading today. This is precisely the result of the long practice of voting on the proposals of the Council of Ministers as they are. We have gathered here to represent taxpayers, which means to ensure that money is spent economically and usefully, that each budget contains both sufficient budget savings and sufficient growth, whether it is about the economy, whether it is about progress in education, in healthcare, or strengthening defence, the security of state institutions. The criticisms we have heard so far and which we are yet to hear about this budget, from this point of view, are reasonable. This budget that we are going to vote on is not good. It will provide little in terms of savings and very little in terms of growth and stability. These are the realities.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u138	And the reforms?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u139	We'll get to the reforms! His main problem is that with almost nothing, Mr. Gechev, it is no different from the budgets that BSP voted on. It is a very small step in it and, accordingly, it suffers from all the vices that we have so far observed. Thank you to Mr. Emil Dimitrov for remembering, however, when we talk about this budget, what we are talking about and what he pays 3 billion. lv. is the price of several years of idleness, at best criminal negligence, if not an accessory of financial intelligence to the DANS, to the Revenue Agency, to the Supervision of the Bulgarian National Bank. Much more than an authorised budget deficit for 2015 is what we as taxpayers will pay to cover the thefts of some and the indifference to these thefts of other people that we are called besides everything else to control here. Deficit is not accidentally permissible within these limits of 3%. It is precisely in order to be able to invest because reforms cost money to be able to cover sharp, unforeseen costs so that a new debt can be borne when necessary and when it is profitable. All this possible deficit and significant topping on it in this budget has already been stolen and we're already paying for the theft. So let's look a little more seriously both in the past and in the future, because the resources for reforms, the development resource has been eaten in advance long before the budget vote. Reasonable reform policy always consists of three steps. The first is the right legislative solutions that change the current bad rules and introduce new better ones. Secondly, payment of the price of these decisions is paid both financially and socially. And only thirdly comes the benefits expressed both as public budget savings and as real development in certain sectors. This Parliament is taking the first steps towards exiting a two-year political crisis. This budget is one of its first legislative acts, the first step. Legislative reform cannot be adopted by this Parliament and adequately reflected in next year's budget. The second step will not be paid if we pay the price of crimes in the past and not reforms in the future. Undoubtedly, this budget also contains a number of controversial measures, such as the 10% reduction in administrative expenditure, which I am skeptical of being implemented. We should all be aware that this budget is possible at the moment, that it will be supported, that it will be adopted and that it is the last possible budget for Bulgaria. If the 2015 budget is similar to this, the sinking into a debt crisis for the country is inevitable.. I am talking to all the majority colleagues because both this and the next will be our concern. Since January, we must provide for legislative measures and financial needs for administrative reform and e-government, including the cost of the necessary benefits in the 2016 budget, most likely. A complete reform of the pension system, of the labour market, differentiation of insurance thresholds and an overall account, because the big hole, lasting in our budget, when we don't pay past thefts, is the huge financial transfer needed to complete the deficit of state social security. A comprehensive review of both revenues in state social security and in the Republican budget. Including why wasn't the money stolen for excise duty? What is the role of VAT chains in shaping the revenues of the Bulgarian budget? All this is, first of all, a legislative measure, second of all, must be financed as the capacity of revenue agencies. Then a comprehensive cost review, because here are the public procurement stops, here are the big leaks. Because a large part of the costs made by the Bulgarian administration are unduly high and have nothing to do with the costs that the Bulgarian business makes for such services, which means huge corruption potential. With which, of course, I will graduate, although it is not worth money without judicial reform and without the reform of the security services all others are unnecessary and will simply not happen. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u141	Mr. Kanev, your thesis is that today you will vote with disgust the first budget of this government because you do not agree with it, but there is no time to make a better one, and in the years to come, the reforms need to be undertaken by the end of the government, now is not enough time. Mr. Kanev, this can be believed by someone who doesn't understand this work from budgets and how to write budgets. I don't know if you're saying this out of naivety, or if you're just manipulating both the gym and the community. Read the 2015 budget. Each budget is adopted with a three-year forecast framework. So after 2015, you have 2016, 2017, 2018 and so on, until the end of the term of office of this government, you intended to make it through. In this forecast framework, which goes towards Budget 2015, all that you bet in 2015 is set to continue until the end of your life there is no increase in social payments, there is no reform in health care, there is no in the judiciary. Everything you are talking about now is not in your forecast until 2018. That is, either you don't know it or you haven't read it, or you know it and you are manipulating it, that you are delaying reforms for lack of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any other lines? Mr. Tanchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Mr. Kanev, the Reformation Block, as I recall, wanted a two-year mandate in which to make the reforms and resign, or to move on to a longer horizon in which we can look. Where are the reforms for this year and next year?! We don't see anything you're talking about. Now you're saying there's no time for anything better. You had to have a plan ready by entering, strikingly, to say specifically and clearly: this, this and these are the changes. Thank you. [[Voices on the left: no money!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u144	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Kanev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u145	Mrs. Ninova, with disgust they were your words. I would never think of saying anything like that. For every right-wing Bulgarian politician to extort the junk left after BSP management is pride, not disgust. [[Applause on the right.]] That's our story since 1989. The bad news is that we're rapping very slowly and there's still stuff from before 1989 that hasn't been cleaned out. What I've graduated with about the justice system I'm talking about, let's not get confused. With regard to what is at stake, a little in the past tense and a little in the future. I guess in the previous three-year framework, the bankruptcy of CCB wasn't at stake. [[(Replications. It's a thrill. (Laughter)]] Although Mr. Tanchev's statement also gives me the impression that there were politicians and rulers in Bulgaria who calculated it and should have been responsible for doing so if they knew what was happening. Because many knew, I hope they did at least calculate. About the future. It is no coincidence that I refer to my majority colleagues because there are many things within the three-year framework that we will find very difficult to accept and therefore I say that we should sit down in January 2015, see very seriously which legislative reforms should begin immediately and what funds are needed for them. Because Bulgaria experienced in 1997 a cycle of major reforms for which there was no provision for funds, and this was extremely painful for society. [[Noise and lines.]] We are not as urged as we were then, because you briefly managed before the current term, so we now have the opportunity to do reforms in a less painful way by providing sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u146	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u147	I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u148	You're gonna have to extend the time. You have the floor, Professor. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u149	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The draft budget 2015 in the part of education and science cannot be supported because it isolated Bulgaria from the pan-European trend for increasing the costs of education and innovation, as is the philosophy of the European strategy 2020. The European strategy 2020 is an improved version of the Lisbon Strategy, which, although rightly so, has proved insufficiently effective in relation to the challenges of the global world and its market. It is precisely in view of the competitiveness of this market that Europe is betting on more investment in innovation, i.e. more funds for education and science as a mechanism for achieving smart growth. Against this background and in connection with the repeated remarks made to Bulgaria by the European Union on the urgent implementation of reforms, long delayed in education, the reduction of funds for education and science in the 2015 budget project is irrefutable proof of two embarrassing countries' conclusion. Firstly, a non-European policy in education and science, and, secondly, a refusal of reforms. Yes, the draft Budget 2015 is a budget for absent reforms in education and science. I disagree with the finding in the opinion of the Committee on Education and Science that, in general, Budget 2015 retains the costs of education and science compared to 2014. The expression is inaccurate because for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the funds are reduced by about 5 million is less and the target 100 million of the central Republican budget for education in Budget 2014 is simply gone. National programmes and the implementation of information and communication technologies in the educational process are threatened. I don't know by what logic you define this as stored cost ceilings. You don't have to argue with me. [[Applause, excitement, lines]] , it is enough to take into account the recognition of the education minister. He was honorable to say as soon as he got acquainted with the draft Budget 2015 that he could not carry out reforms in the presence of such funds. I hope you do not need any other justifications for our firm refusal to support Budget 2015. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u150	Thank you, Professor. Georgieva. - What's the line? I can't see. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u151	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka will vote against the draft budget presented by the Council of Ministers. I will list immediately several reasons that are direct and quite specific. First of all, too little growth is at stake I'm going to compare eternally mourned Greece. That's where they staked 3% growth. So in the bad Greece, the ever-stricken Greece has some economic movement, which is greater than the Bulgarian one. In addition, there is a reduction in exports in this budget. Given that in recent years Bulgaria has exported only scrap, wheat and wood, the scrap has apparently decreased. There's nothing left to cut, the factories are destroyed, and that goes down. We have other remarks that are principled. For a long time, the flat tax has been maintained. This is something we are fighting against. We voted against it when it was adopted by the triple coalition, then supported by GERB, then again supported by the next government and is now being maintained again. Do you see that there is no difference between left and right in Bulgaria? Retirement age is beginning to increase. Something that, in the previous cabinet, the bad Oresharski, the bad government of Oresharski, which was so Satanized, the increase in retirement age was temporarily frozen, which is a good social solution, but now this is being removed and the retirement age is beginning to grow. In this budget is also a tax on interest on deposits, that is, by keeping money in a bank deposit, it is taxed on you. And a child's deposit will even be taxed. Thus every Bulgarian who saves will have to pay another additional tax. I don't know why the speakers here jumped this seemingly small detail, but it's important. Here I come to a reason why we are against the budget and for which a new debt of 8.1 billion has already been spoken. lv. for next year. The estimate given shows that a large part of this money goes to cover old debts, including saving banks, something we are opposed to, and 1 billion goes to the European Investment Bank there due. There are about two and a half billion left to be distributed among you in the form of orders. From now on, I would like to tell you that I predict that you will fight because 2 and a half billion is too small for such a slender, quadruple coalition, where I see right now that there are quarrels about who is to lead a committee, who is to be a deputy minister, and when there are 2 and a half billion for distribution, I just foresee very serious scenes. All I'm saying is don't let things get too bloody. What I also note as a negative in the new budget is that there will be a lack of funding of two main sectors................................................................................................ It's an old policy, but now it's going to go on in a new voice.Creative, which means there will be no money for hospitals again, education will suffer again. One more thing I note as a negative is the artificial underfinancing of the BDZ sector, which is preparing for bankruptcy and privatisation - something that has been withheld so far - will now go to privatisation. Forget BDZ! In the same way the Bulgarian post office will be held by the neck, will be financially strangled this public activity and privatized, which means that the Bulgarians, who were used to having mail in each village and thus receive the services they need to receive, this will be cut off, that is, we are going to a feudalization of the country. One of the last sectors to remain unattended is railway transport, and it will go into the wrong hands. I can even tell you which company the German company will be in, from now on it's clear. I just want to let you know that it's a lot of fun for me when they start accusing this room of debating the budget between the left and the right. Dear ladies and gentlemen of parliament, since 1997, when Stefan Sofianski's caretaker government, without being authorized by the National Assembly, handed over the Bulgarian economy, finances and the entire state to the power of the International Monetary Fund, which Joseph Stiglitz, not me, but Joseph Stiglitz, a winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics, called a colonial instrument "the IMF and the World Bank," since then Bulgaria has not been an independent state. What's there to talk about budget and distribution if we don't have the right to issue money? The Bulgarian National Bank since 1997 is the largest Change Bureau in the country. We have no independence in the economy, neither in finance, nor in salary determination. That is why I know very well that when Ataka says: The Minimal pension must be at least 500 leva in order to be able to get closer to the European bottom or 1000 leva to be the minimum wage, again to get closer to the low ground, we say that in order to do so we have to get out of colonial slavery. Because what we are now offered is a colonial budget and it is the same in the years 1997 to here, whether it is a socialist who is called right or right-wing. It's just that we're in the hands of the International Monetary Fund, we're caught, and that's where we're determined, and that's where they tell us what wages and pensions can be, and how they can't rise any more. Therefore, in order to get out of this scheme, so that we can really get to the question of the issues in Bulgaria, which is the level of income, this is the most important issue, we are with the lowest incomes in Europe, with a huge difference from the average European level, in order to get out of this trap we have to expel the International Monetary Fund, as Mr Orban has done. Viktor Orban did everything he could to separate himself from the iron grip of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and began to develop a commitment to economic and financial. This can and should be done for Bulgaria and only then will we be able to talk about a budget so that we can really discuss a budget. I'm sorry, but we're discussing what? The transfer of 18 billion. lv. That's the amount that's being redistributed. I want to tell you that in 2011 only in the cases of foreign enterprises that rob Bulgaria, I call them colonists, some of you call them investors, but in fact they are colonists, these are: the huge energy enterprises that profit from electricity; these are the ones that export us the gold; those who hold supermarkets, gas stations, mobile operators and all that is earned, all these are huge foreign companies for 2011 alone, the Bulgarian impoverished and destitute has left in their cases 28 billion. Pounds. Twenty-eight billion were made in profit! To date, they have become probably thirty, thirty-something billion. What's going on? We fill the crates of foreign businesses with 30 billion a year, and here we argue, or at least we pretend to argue about 18 billion where to distribute them. It's just a pathetic number, a pathetic number! We've got 18 billion to redistribute, no matter what we do, there's nothing we can do. This, one. Secondly, look at the structure of the budget! What is the state treasury filled with? Ladies and gentlemen, it is mostly filled with excise duties and VAT, i.e. indirect taxes. The ratio is 3:1. Three-to-one indirect taxes! What does that mean? This means that we are a country that relies on the beating of the sack of flour, on the people. Because VAT and excise taxes are indirect taxes that weigh on the common man. When grandparents buy milk from the grocery store, they pay 20% VAT. When the firm, come on, I won't point out here in the hall, but when the firm X buys something and gives the VAT, he gets it back or gets some of it back, right? However, grandparents do not pay back 20% VAT. They pay every single commodity, every last bucket of milk, with 20% VAT. When the Bulgarian buys cigarettes and drinks, because this is all he has left as a pleasure, he pays, i.e. he gives the price that the excise duty pays more. And these are the biggest revenues. When you fill your car with gasoline or when you pay the electricity too, these are excise goods. These things, without which the Bulgarian cannot, because we have to agree that he must go to drink two brandy after a hopeless day and light a cigarette, he must fill his car to go to work. There we tax it, hence we expect the greatest income. Nearly two thirds of the income in the treasury comes from there.. VAT and excise duties. When he shops at the grocery store and gets things he can't do without, they're not luxury, they're necessary for his daily life, he still pays VAT, and that fills the treasury. At the same time, these big companies I'm talking about huge, most foreign or supranational, international, they make huge profits. The income from their taxes is one third of the income that uncle, aunt, grandmother, grandfather and ordinary Bulgarians import. What's going on? The ordinary Bulgarian supports the treasury, and those who should support it with their taxes, the big companies, the corporations, the great business for which the right is fighting in Bulgaria, he gets away on the streets and the revenues from his taxes are one third of the income of the poor people. This structured budget cannot be the budget of a prosperous country. Things have to be reversed. The income from direct taxes must exceed those from indirect taxes, or at least be 50:50. Now the situation, the situation in which we live, is a situation of finishing the sack called the Bulgarian people, who has nowhere to go and who can only react with political apathy and say: "You are all masqueraders, you are all sluts! All politicians are cheap, etcetera. That is not true, however, he has the right to say it because he sees no change. Change, ladies and gentlemen, can only happen when we change the model, and the model does not mean whether to govern, the party called the "left party" or coalition or the "right centre," but to emerge from the colonial model. Something therefore takes the effort of the entire political elite, but I do not know whether this particular political elite can make this effort and overstep its shadow. I think that it also needs to be replaced and we need to get to a political elite to say clearly and courageously: Bulgaria has no use for all these Euro-Atlantic integrations in which it was placed to be a pawn. Bulgaria benefits if industrialization develops here; if we build; if we have real investment and not pseudo-investment, not a company that comes and takes the Energo to increase the price of electricity and exports the profits. It's not an investor, it's a coloniser. We need real investment, but real investment from the West will not come, however hard they try to disprove me here some people in the room who just have a cult to the western part of the world. That's not where investments are coming from. That's where colonists come from. Investments can come from emerging countries. We need our national gross product, which is a pathetic one. It's a 40 billion. euros, this is as much as Bill Gates' personal wealth, we need a sharp rise in gross product. That's hard! This can only happen with violent development. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] How do I do that? Let the brains think! We have a lot of brains, don't we? We've got a hell of a lot of professors...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u152	The weather, Mr. Siderov!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u153	...and smart guys who keep going out to TV studios and explaining the economy. Come on, they can harness themselves and tell the people how to pull Bulgaria sharply forward, not by 0.8% growth, but by times more, how to upload gross domestic product so that we can redistribute here not 18 billion but 180 billion! Then we'll talk about a real budget, then we'll talk about a real policy. Until then, we'll play politics and budgets like little kids at recess. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u154	Thank you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u155	I think I've kept it to myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u156	One minute you're late.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u157	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u158	- What's the line? I won't. For speech the people representative Borislav Borisov. Here you go, Professor. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u159	Honourable Presidency, honourable ministers, fellow Members! "Alternative for the Bulgarian Revival" adopted the main parameters of Budget 2015, regardless of its extremely conservative nature and restrictive approach to costs, due to the following basic objective circumstances. Firstly, after the overcosts for 2014, which led to a budget deficit of 3.6% yesterday, there was also talk about other rates of gross domestic product, while not receiving lasting and serious results, efforts have obviously been made in this budget to limit expenditure to 3% of gross product, as are European requirements. Secondly, the thawing of suspended European funding and restoring work on them also requires an increase in co-financing funds, which means optimizing budgetary expenditure as well. However, by adopting the main parameters of the budget, including austerity measures, we also have a duty to express some of our considerations, mainly related to the approach in the development of the revenue side of the budget. First, the revenue is quite conservative in general and is based, in our opinion, on a reduced economic growth rate of 0.8%, which is almost twice the growth recorded by the end of the year. Expectation is at 1.5%. To a certain extent, this may find its explanation, not to mention the techniques for overexecuting budget expenditure. But the most important thing in the budget is that we do not see any serious incentive measures to ensure economic growth and revenue growth in general. For example, we do not see in the budget the funds envisaged in the declaration of support for a public private investment fund for the development of high technology. Moreover, the funds of the institutions called on to develop the legal products for these high technologies are reduced by 5 million, and the intended funds for science in universities are only a symbolic number. I say "sympathically" because they are cosmic years away from the projected rates in Europe 2020. Who, then, will develop the innovative products needed for the economy and who will carry out the targeted financing of high technology? It is natural that there will be no serious economic growth. The inflation forecast is the alarming 0,2%. Does this mean that the trend over the last 15 months of deflation will not be conclusively overcome by the government and what are the measures for this? We don't see an increase in revenue collection either. This can be seen at first glance from a more private case. It is about reducing smuggling, which varies between 15-20% in Europe, but in Bulgaria reaches and exceeds 50%. That's a lot of millions in the budget if it goes down. Are there no measures to be taken for this reduction? I will not dwell on other opportunities to increase the revenue side. In our opinion, however, the main weakness that we take into account in the budget is that it lacks or at least does not stand out policies, especially economic policy and energy policy. It is very difficult to imagine how the upcoming heavy reforms will actually take place, for example in the energy sector, in the justice system, in health care, in education in the absence of these policies. It is beyond doubt that only by organisational measures, regulations and decisions can this be done. There is also a need for financial provision of the reform, otherwise it will not happen in practice. In the social sphere, we accept maintaining the levels of social payments. However, we do not accept the increase in maternity insurance from 18 to 24 months. The envisaged reduction in staff costs by 10% is generally correct.. it is known to everyone that our administration is too bloated. However, its implementation must be handled very carefully, according to the system in which it is applied. For example, applied literally in the social sphere, this approach means in practice 10% reduction of people providing specific social services to deprived citizens. We fully support the Minister for Labour and Social Policy's efforts to bring order, stability and predictability into the pension system. The most inappropriate in this case are the hasty and unwarranted decisions. The increase of the requirement for internship and age in the following year should be smoother and predictable in the long term. Unfortunately, a series of governments so far have not been able to reach public agreement on the pension system, which has condemned pensioners to permanent low incomes. We deeply hope that there is now an opportunity to achieve a sensible and useful solution for both people and the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u160	Thank you, Professor. Borisov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u161	Dear colleagues! Traditionally, a budget is considered to be something too specific and sometimes incomprehensible, a mixture of indicators, numbers, a deficit of charged and on a cash basis and so on. We offer you another reading, another look at the budget, what problems do we solve through this budget, and how do we solve human problems through numbers? We've looked at the polls with our colleagues over the last ten years. Undoubtedly, without change, Bulgarian citizens point to three problems, as the most important problems for them, three problems that we can solve through the budget. They are poverty, low incomes and unemployment. In all public studies, these are the first concerns of our fellow citizens. Are we solving any of these issues during Budget 2015? I don't think I'm gonna give her an argument as to why. Not only are we not solving them, we are deepening poverty and unemployment, and incomes are falling. That is, if we speak through Budget 2015, dear Bulgarians, unfortunately in 2015 you will continue to become impoverished and the unemployed will not find work. What are the ways to resolve these issues? The traditional three ways are as follows. The first is production, economy and growth. Of the 0.8% bets, as other colleagues have already said, such a thing is not seen in Budget 2015. There will be no economy in 2015. There is no logical explanation for this, since the International Monetary Fund gives forecast 1.4 per cent, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives 1.5 per cent, the caretaker government only gave 2.6 per cent a month ago and this cabinet gives 0.8 per cent?! The second way is investment. In the budget there is no growth in investments in 2015 compared to 2014, i.e. the government says: "We will not make any effort to attract foreign investors. Colleagues, the third way is to increase incomes that depend on the state, not in the private sector. Thus, not only incomes are raised, but domestic consumption is also stimulated, which is one of the methods to stimulate economic growth. What will happen next year in terms of income? Only the minimum wage is increased. Last week we heard very loud assessments that this is a very social budget. Dear colleagues, the budget says the following: monthly aid rate for children frozen; support for both children and more children, these are twins frozen; compensation for raising a child from 1 to 2 years old Fourteen social payments in the freezer! How does that look to you, colleagues?! You open the freezer, you drop in, you put the lock, you lock up, and for the next three years, you freeze those incomes. A fellow leader of the right-wing party said just now that the role of this government was to wipe out the remnants of the previous government. What are you up to, mate? You kick out mothers, children with disabilities, workers with food vouchers... [[Loud noise and shouting!]] That's what you're shoveling, that's what's frozen. [[Extreme noise and lines from GERB.]] Why not remove the smuggling of excise duties and VAT by recording higher revenues from excise duties and VAT?! No, you don't touch the taxes and the VAT is still there. You don't touch the contraband. You touch mothers, people with disabilities, pregnant women and students. [[Extreme noise and lines from GERB.]] These are the facts, colleagues, even if you don't like them. That's what you're kicking out. Unemployment, for next year an increase of the unemployed is at stake, yes, by a little, by 0.2 percent, but what do you really say to people with this? The unemployed you've been out of a job so far, you're not gonna find one. There will be new unemployed and the government will not lift a finger to solve this problem, because the money under the Employment Action Plan remains at 73 million, as it has so far been. That is, through state policy and the Employment Action Plan, a policy for new jobs will not be made. I have other arguments to argue that people will be impoverished next year. They're the following. Tax relief for people with incomes up to 340 BGN is cancelled. For these families this means, dear Bulgarians, 30 leva. additionally to any such family. You increase the provision of farmers from 240 to 420 BGN. Dear farmers, that means 65 BGN. each month for each of you additionally. And if you are a farmer, a small tobacco producer with income of up to 340 BGN, combined this means that every month with 100 BGN. less will enter your family of a family member. Well, isn't that impoverishment, colleagues?! Only of these two measures - 100 leva. less of every person every month in his home. You increase the period for calculating maternity from 18 to 24 months. Dear mothers, this means that you will receive 12 leva. less for motherhood every month. You're withdrawing the payment of a quarter social disability pension. Dear disabled with a social one-quarter pension, that means you will receive 35 leva. less every month. To this, let's add the four-month increase to age and retirement internship. How do you like it, guys? Isn't it true that the policy you bet, it's not even politics, it leads to an even greater impoverishment of people? We can break them down by sector or by group how much farmers will lose, how much mothers will lose. However we look at them, the fact is that the Bulgarians will be impoverished next year. I notice colleagues from GERB and the ruling majority, the first unfulfilled promise from the programme you have written and accepted, or a declaration, or what you are told by the management document, the first failure you have recorded in Budget 2015. In your program, it says: "Enlargement of persons receiving heating aid to double the amount of 500 thousand. Souls. You even put a number in your program. In your budget, colleagues, there is no money to increase such persons to receive heating aid. There are no amounts to compensate the fee for a pensioner's personal doctor. The Minister of Health assured us that the Ministry of Health will take the difference for the fee of a pensioner up to BGN 2.90. Note that you do not have such expenditure in the budget. That is, there is a danger in the middle of the year to tell the pensioners: "Ama, pay your fee."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u162	There is, you haven't read.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u163	You don't read that anywhere, guys. [[GERB lines.]] Read your budget. There's no money in the Department of Health for a pension fee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u164	Are you reading last year?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u165	So, colleagues, if I have to summarize and tell our compatriots: undoubtedly in 2015 because of Budget 2015 and the government of Boyko Borisov, unfortunately, you will become impoverished. But do not think that this sacrifice is being made in order to have reforms in order to increase the economy and reduce the debt of Bulgaria in order to stabilize it for your children and grandchildren in the future. Not at all. The economy freezes, the debt grows, your income falls, and unemployment goes up. This is what awaits you, dear compatriots, in this department. From now on, you're on. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u167	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u168	Go for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u169	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I wasn't going to make a line, but I just couldn't resist among those untruths that were told by Mrs Cornelia Ninova. Ms. Ninova, obviously you have a short memory because until a few months ago GERB was not ruling and your party was ruling. What solution have you made to these three problems that you have listed for poverty, low incomes and unemployment? I would like to remind not only you, but also the Bulgarian citizens in terms of income, what have you done for a year of governance? It's only 30 leva. You've increased the minimum wage. In terms of poverty, what have you done? You have neither increased social benefits nor increased the integration supplements of people with disabilities. On the contrary, these people are in misery. They can't pay the electricity, the heat, the water for you. In terms of unemployment. In your time, unemployment in Bulgaria has reached unprecedented levels especially in terms of youth unemployment. All programs under the Human Resources Development Operational Programme were suspended. People in small towns have no livelihoods, no jobs, because all the programmes were frozen by the European Commission. Instead of the $250,000 promised. Jobs, what have you done? New 42,000 unemployed Bulgarian citizens have entered the Labour Bureau. This is the real reading of your social policy. And don't abuse any more, because we are still 2014. Bulgarian citizens are still victims of your social policy. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ninova! Dear Mrs. Ninova, you said you have no explanation why so low economic growth is at stake. Is this economic growth at stake so low that then someone can pat themselves in the chest and tell how they've excessed their income?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u172	It's your practice. In 2008, you did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u173	Is this at stake, so that after that, not through the National Assembly, but the Council of Ministers can redistribute revenue?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u174	Any other lines? Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mrs. Ninova! I'll just put one detail in the line. Remember how you withdrew 1 billion, one of the most social parties BSP withdrew 1 billion, of which only 40 million you gave for social benefits, and the rest spent on developing the regions, for building gardens and playgrounds in villages where there are no young people. [[Applause from GERB.]] So your social policy was very bloated and hollow.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u177	Mrs. Ahmedova, the low economic growth at stake is done only for one thing when it is higher, for the Council of Ministers to distribute the additional revenue at its discretion. So that's why we don't have any doubts. However, it is not good as a policy, because real costs cannot be wagered against such a policy, especially in the social sphere. As for social policy, colleagues from GERB, I expected you to prepare yourself more seriously, with some more meaningful arguments. Especially from colleagues with whom we have been in the previous Parliament and have worked this, especially by the laws that you have supported, I did not expect you to replicate me so easily. Ele, youth unemployment, which, together with you, we have imported and voted on all the laws on youth employment in the previous parliament, which I have personally even enjoyed having political agreement in the country and because of which the work of the previous parliament can now immediately start and absorb the funds of youth employment. Your arguments regarding social payments are absolutely false and trendy. Let's go over the facts. Children's benefits for children from 35 to 50 BGN; raising a child between 1 and 2 years of age from 270 to 340 BGN Increase the minimum wage from 270 to 340. For a first-grader it's clear that it's 70 leva, it's not 30 leva, is it? Twice increase in food vouchers for workers. Increase money for first graders from 150 to 250 BGN I don't want to tell 'cause I'm gonna eat the time of the band. But in general, it's 13 billion. lv. for social policies over the past year, almost one-third of the expenditure over gross domestic product. If you're going to look for weaknesses in the previous government, look for them somewhere else. Your argument that there was no social policy then and that this budget is now more social and more guaranteeable income, jobs of people and so on, not only is it not serious, it is ridiculous. You don't look serious in such facts and numbers. Make some other arguments. Attack with whatever else you want, but where you are weak, say: "Yes, we are weak, we will do everything possible to make this weakness up." But poverty, income and unemployment is your Achilles' heel. The bad news is that this is the most important problem for the Bulgarians, as I told you in the beginning, in all the public studies in recent years. That is, people's expectations for you to solve the most important issue are broken down like a wall. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For a statement there is the national representative Daniela Daritkova. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u179	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the framework of planned costs for a health function of 3 billion. The Commission 200,000. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and 137,000. more about the Ministry of Health. I want to congratulate the Minister and his team because I know how difficult it is to convince the financiers that money should be poured into an unreformed system that will ensure their effective spending is ensured that this is not actually a cost, but an investment in the health of the nation. Now I will try to convince you why this budget is worth supporting. I particularly rely on understanding from fellow doctors, even from the opposition. What are the specific parameters? Sixteen million BGN more for salaries in the Emergency Aid, 8 million more for vaccines, 5 million more for the Assisted................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Turned into activity this means: optimization of administration; new standards for financing health offices in municipalities with up to 40 children in full-time kindergartens and in municipalities with up to 270 students in school; stable functioning of all structures in the field of public health; emergency assistance, fixed psychiatric aid, medical and social care for children; training to acquire a specialty in the education system; sufficient preparations for immune prevention, for the implementation of the immune calendar; increasing the number of health mediators with 20 units; better pay which will lead to better insurance for emergency care; guaranteed access to treatment of all children who cannot receive it in our country; 1000 in vitro procedures more and as a result, I hope, more than 300 newborn Bulgarians for 2015. This budget guarantees the financial stability of the sector. The team of the Ministry of Health will be free to seek the good solutions for the system, and it is consensus that the reform is urgent. And because there is nothing more irresistible than an idea that has come its way, and we must give our parliamentary support for the upcoming reforms, in the first place by voting for this budget. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u180	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Daritkova, for a man who doesn't know things, all this sounds wonderful, brilliant. But speaking of how much the budget of the Ministry of Health has been increased, you neglected to say how much the budget of the NHIF has been reduced. Speaking of how much the budget for vaccines has been increased, you neglected to say that vaccines as a number are the same So let's not manipulate people. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u182	Thank you, dear Dr. Raynov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u183	Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Raynov, manipulations are a priority of another political force. I know you're far more experienced than we are, given the long history of your party. However, as a result of the manipulations in the previous budget, we saw a deficit of vaccines [[Applause from GERB]] , witnesses of deficit in the health sector, in all paragraphs! Something we warned about when the previous budget was adopted. Now, because you have no arguments, you come up with speeches on how many numbers you know how the vaccines are planned, that they are planned for three years ahead, that all this is accurately read by the Ministry that vaccines are already delivered to general practitioners to overcome the deficit, so well provided to the Bulgarian children by the previous minister. These are all the facts, and I hope my colleagues understand them. That we should be well-meaning, I was hoping that you would also understand from the opposition, because otherwise there is no consensus to be reached and there is no way to move forward in this sensitive sector of ours. This is what I was counting on, unfortunately, I can really see that you will continue to insist that what you were doing this year was good. The facts are not such......................................................................................... has been updated twice. Now, indeed, there are more funds, even in the size of the National Health Insurance Fund's budget. Something we'll try to prove to you tomorrow. Everything else as reforms I hope that everyone here who thinks about the future of the nation will organize, propose and support the Minister of Health and his team because this really concerns the future of the country. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u184	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. To speak, the people representative Rositsa Yanakieva. Here you are, Mrs. Yanakieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I would very much like you to hear what I'm saying, asking you to hand it over to the entire Council of Ministers. I will not talk about the general framework of the budget, but I would like to talk about something that is too important and which we have been talking about for years all the parties have been talking about. We all know that with 20% of the state's resources, municipalities actually provide 80% of the services of the citizens there are official data on this. Nevertheless, in this year's budget, the municipalities demanded 20 million. lv. to increase the salaries of municipal employees. Let's not forget that wages in the sector are not increased by the time the minimum wage was 240 BGN. She's going up to 340 right now, and there's not a penny in there. The 20 million is not an overwhelming burden that cannot be overcome, I would say at first, through the revenue side of the budget. And another thing, the municipalities asked for another 20 million. BGN to be used as means to carry out the necessary actions in the prevention of natural disasters, to which both this and last year, and pò we all witnessed last year. Only at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Interdepartmental Commission were distributed 20 million. BGN, which went to cover damage. Why do we have to pay several times 20 million to cover damage when we could give that 20 million to municipalities to deal with the most critical points of municipal infrastructure?! In fact, speaking of decentralisation, this is not decentralisation, which is written in the budget. These 78 million are delegated funds that go primarily to education. Let this time all parliamentary groups have the will to give, albeit minimal, resources to municipalities and start the process of decentralisation. In general, with the adoption of almost every law, we impose commitments and obligations on municipalities without giving them one lev resource, without giving them resources such as personnel potential and teamwork, so that they can carry out these new tasks. Even recently, the Minister of Health wanted the mayors of municipalities to guard ambulances with specialists visiting emergency situations. I don't think this is a serious attitude towards municipalities. I think there's a will in all of them, and those 40 million I'm talking about are not insurmountable as an income, respectively a spending part of them. I hope that between first and second reading there will be will among all to make this gesture to the 264 municipalities in the country, which mainly care for and serve the citizens of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u186	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yanakieva. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Irena Kotseva. Here you go, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The cost of the Education function in the 2015 consolidated fiscal programme is estimated at 9,6 percent of total expenditure and 3,7 percent of gross domestic product. Budget 2015 increases the funds that schools and kindergartens receive under uniform cost standards of 41,2 million. BGN, thus ensuring the year-round increase of the minimum salaries for the teachers' posts entered into force on 1 September 2014, and the shortage of the system resulting from incorrect planning of the expenditure for 2014 is covered and the assumption of unsecured costs and commitments. I am referring here, in particular, to the signing of the collective agreement in the system in which the additional obligations of schools and kindergartens have significantly exceeded the 4 million allocated. BGN, as well as the permanent expenditure supplement, the introduction of which was not accompanied by the planning of additional funds. The funds for the transport of teachers are increased by 15%, who travel to another local place of employment. This will allow them to be compensated for their transport costs of 100 per cent in the previous 85. With this measure, the budget shows an attitude not only to traveling teachers, but also to all schools and kindergartens from small and remote settlements, as well as to children and students in these schools, because good, quality education and training cannot be without good teachers. In the Committee on Education and Science, we have heard a clear commitment from the Ministry of Finance that a solution will also be given to the problems with insufficient funds for the full-time organisation of the school, with the lack of funds for the transportation of students, as well as to support the activities of extra-school and pedagogical units. By solving these problems, we will be able to say that the preschool and school education system will be placed on a stable platform so that it can function normally in 2015. There has been an improvement in the budget in the higher education system. The subsidy for state universities increased by 13 million. lv. It also increased the amount and proportion of the subsidy granted on the basis of a comprehensive quality assessment and in line with the needs of the labour market. In conclusion, I can say that this budget is more honest with those who will carry it out in the system, there are no deficits and unrealistic revenues involved, predictability is a fundamental principle of good governance. Project Budget 2015 does not only lack false promises, but we also see solutions to a number of problems caused by incorrect cost planning and the making of unsecured commitments in the last year. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here, from these microphones, I feel like we're talking about different budgets. A little while ago, we heard there were no deficits at stake. If 2 and a half billion is not a deficit, ma'am, I don't know what needs to happen in this country to remember that we are entering a serious spiral of deficits and debts, which clearly comes out of this way, not after we put the economy behind us. [[Noise, lines and calls from GERB.]] I understand your reactions, but we warned that this would happen. [[Noise and lines, laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u190	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u191	Because the attitude towards the work of revenue administrations is on the principle of who is the same as if they want to work, if they want to, they can not work. Failure to set goals high and feasible will lead to a deficit in front of administrations because there are no revenues.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u192	You say that? With this deficit right now?! Are you serious?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u193	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u194	It was serious to turn around and bet higher revenues so we didn't have this deficit. Mr. Finance Minister during the Budget Commission said he had put in place and proposed measures to the European Commission to deal with the deficit. What are these measures? He's not here to answer. You didn't answer the Budget Committee either. Let him say it. Perhaps if he said what the measures were, there wouldn't be all these questions here, but apparently, if he had shared them, there would have been many more questions. This way of conducting fiscal policy will undoubtedly lead to what you promise will not happen, namely to increase the tax burden and to an even greater impoverishment of Bulgarian citizens! For everything you do, Bulgarian citizens will have to pay, unfortunately. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u195	That's why you're 39 people! You're not anymore!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u196	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Kotseva, I listened carefully to your speech. In my reply, I would like to draw attention to the fact that for the first time we see, however, in relation to recent years, a reduction in the absolute amount of money for education and also not only as a total amount, but also as a percentage of gross domestic product. I think this matters in terms of your stated intentions to conduct an education policy. I just want to remind you of one fact today. I also talked about this during the meeting of the Education Committee. And I ask the ruling majority to really pay attention to the proposals of the Bulgarian municipalities, which at a meeting with the Minister of Finance, have signed a protocol in which they want not so grand a sum, but extremely important for the work of the Bulgarian schools. That's $7 million. 900,000. BGN, which are to cover the differences needed for the feeding of children from I to IV grade, for improvement of the material base and for the means of transport, which do not reach the Bulgarian municipalities. We are all representatives of constituencies from all over the country. It's money that's needed. And that's why my line to you is: let's be really careful when we talk about education, because these are funds for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Kotseva, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are right, fellow Member, there are no deficits and unrealistic revenues in Budget 2015 in the "Education" function. It lacks everything we have heard in the past years in your budget. [[Replys on the left.]] We heard: "We increase your money, but we will give it to you if we pay our income or the rule that the costs are met at 90% or 95%. After all, everyone understands that they have been lied to, and money is actually reduced. This was Budget 2014, which is why we are fighting today Budget 2015 in the "Education" function to be predictable and to step on real, measurable incomes that will arrive in the "Education" function. With regard to colleague Boyadjieva, you can look at the budget you have, the 16th column for the provision of breakfast, milk and tea for each student in the 1st grade, as well as for children in the preparatory groups and compulsory training classes, the corresponding funds, which are even more than Budget 2014. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. To make a statement there is Mr. Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center will not support the proposed majority budget and the Council of Ministers for several reasons. First of all, this is not our budget. [[Radio, laughter from GERB.]] The Bulgarian Democratic Center entered the National Assembly with several political messages. First of all, this was the creation of jobs. Although you made fun of us all the time, this is the only way to wake up the Bulgarian economy - one million in 10 years - I think it is the minimum that the next Bulgarian government has to do. [[Noise and lines.]] We have entered with several priorities: combating the demographic crisis, I would say, with the demographic disaster. We, colleagues, are the fastest disappearing nation in the world. We disappear with nine people per hour. What are your measures to avoid demographic collapse? Lev and fifty per child tax relief! Can any of you imagine what you can buy your own child with $50,000 a month?! These are your tax benefits! This is your family's income tax! About a month ago, we submitted a Draft Law amending the Family Aid Act for children, with which we asked each Bulgarian child to receive 35 BGN, and the second and third "size 50 BGN, without regard to the income of his parents. To this day, this thing has not been discussed. [[GERB's line.]] If you think so, Admiral. [[Laughter and raging]] That's 20 BGN. a year tax relief is normal for a Bulgarian child! Whether it's a child or a grandchild, I don't think it's normal, do you? With regard to demographics, I have nothing to say. With regard to taxes, there is nothing to blame for the ruling majority. I would like to address the opposition: colleagues, if you were in the House when the income tax was voted, there would be no flat tax today. Both BSP left Bulgaria and the patriots were not in the Chamber when we voted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u202	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u203	The minimum thresholds of farmers according to what you have considered, farmers should generate 16 thousand incomes. lv. per year. Which vegetable producer or tobacco producer in Bulgaria wins 16 thousand. lv. A year?! When you deduct the costs, you will see that your account is worth 16 thousand. lv. per year. There is no such Bulgarian farmer! Instead of enlightening more farmers to pay insurance and increasing those 10,000 who pay, we will now bring at least 90% more of them into the grey sector. In terms of education, I will only mark. Not 400, 600 million to give for higher education, but in a reformed system. 72 thousand seats can not be provided for 40,000 students. Two seats are fighting for one student in Bulgaria. We need the state contract, which comes from the Ministry, to comply with the requirements of the economy, with what the employers want, with the opportunities of the trade unions. This thing must change and reform this system. Most reforms do not require money, but sometimes money can be saved from there. We will not support this budget because it is not on the agenda of the Bulgarians. It does not solve the main problems of the Bulgarian society, does not support the Bulgarian family and I do not see how you will reverse the demographic catastrophe with a reverse sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u204	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u205	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The priorities that are fundamental in the overall budgetary framework for 2015 are inspired by the search for rules and models through which the budget indirectly affects the processes in the economy. In its specificities Budget 2015 aims: through reforms to stabilise and change the economic environment; improving the social atmosphere, which is a derivative function of economic stability and the development of regions; prioritizing and improving the common fiscal policy tools; introducing a conservative approach in the management of the revenue, expenditure and deficit in the budget; stimulating investment and stabilisation of the positive trend in employment; regular repayment of state liabilities to business; improving tax insurance policy in its various projections and increasing revenue collection. Honourable Members, the topic of fiscal strategy and policy, priority revenue managers, expenditures and deficits, relational reduces the focus on expenditure and priorities in sectoral policies. Discussions were held at the regular meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission with representatives of committees, agencies, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior. The budget for the Ministry of Interior for 2015 provides for revenue of 170 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u206	Thirty seconds from the time of the group, Mr. Bellemezov, you'll have to adjust the finals. The time is extended, there is no possibility for more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u207	Thank you. According to gross data of 49 thousand 500 employees at the Ministry of Interior, around 500 of them, according to the budget under consideration, are financially uncertain. However, representatives of agencies and committees at the Ministry of Interior express their optimism for Budget 2015, although they also mature more needs to ensure the resource security of the processes they manage. Colleagues, despite the resource deficit of the budget in the part of the Ministry of Interior, the parliamentary group of the Political Party ABB supports the Draft Budget precisely because all departments, ministries and structures have a reduced budget of approximately 10%. We are well aware that the prevailing expenditures of the Ministry for 2015 will be for staff over 90%. We also make it clear that voting on a higher budget must be justified as opportunities for additional revenue or justified by pre-subscribing expenditure from one office to another, which we believe is not right. Finally, colleagues, this is why we accept with responsibility and willingness to realise the challenges facing the state budget for 2015. We believe that with the necessary reforms, consistency, the ability to bear responsibility all together we will be able to achieve the revival of the Bulgarian economy and the introduction of transparency in the budgetary objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u208	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! I will support the proposed budget by the Council of Ministers for the simple reason not because we like it and there is hardly anyone in this room who is satisfied with this budget, but because it really corresponds to the real state of the economy in the country at the moment. We certainly wish that each of us would be better, but if we do, colleagues, we have a little over 84 billion. Gross domestic product, we cannot expect that all the money that is distributed will be enough for all the activities. As far as regional policy is concerned, since there was a statement in this direction just now, yes, there are undoubtedly requests from municipalities for more revenue so that more costs can be spent, but ultimately these are the optimal opportunities. Budget 2015 provides a little over 100 million precisely for transfers from the central budget to municipalities. Out of these nearly 110 million, 80 million goes precisely to the activities delegated by the State. Of course they're not enough. I, as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, cannot help but wish for these funds to be more. But, again, given that the real economic situation in the country is such, let us not forget that there has been a very difficult political situation in the last year. There was a very difficult situation in a banking area that we haven't come out of yet. There have been more suspended European programmes, without which, you know, our economy would very hardly function. Not that we do not want growth to be not 0.8, but to be 5 or 6%, as it should be, if we really want to catch up with developed countries. But all these factors that I mentioned just now determine why the budget is more restrictive, but it meets reality, not what we want. And I appeal to all my fellow Members who will make proposals between the first and second votes when we go out on this stand, not only to be subject to what we say to bring us some sort of a mercurial political dividend, but rather to the real ratio of the situation. And when we say that we want more expenses for something, it should be followed by where we will get these funds. I do not agree with another claim that the budget was non-reformative. Yes, you do. Here I fully support the opinion of the Minister of Finance that ultimately in the prerogatives of each minister is how to allocate the funds at its disposal. Given that we have a 3 per cent budget deficit forecast, this in itself implies two things: firstly, each ministry, each budget structure to be extremely precise and accurate in its spending and also to enable, as there is a 10% reduction in administration funds, each office to optimally make its reforms and organise its costs. So I disagree with the claim that, you see, this budget is not reformatory. Yes, you do. The other thing that I am finishing with about the Ministry of Regional Development is that there are many important projects that are coming next year. The program is very ambitious. The only thing I ask and appeal to the Council of Ministers, to the Minister of Finance, to find more resources to the Minister of Regional Development, more funds for energy efficiency, as I think it is vital, especially knowing what the state of energy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u210	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I'm informing the parliamentary groups of the time they have. GERB has a little more than 14 minutes left, BSP To speak, Mr. Chobanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u211	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! Budget 2015 can be defined as a lazy budget of absent reforms. [[Laughter and applause at GERB.]] There are no policies in support of growth. He was left to himself not only in 2015, but also in the following years. The fiscal consolidation in 2015 is planned to be relatively easily achieved by reducing the following costs: 500 million public investment programme, 200 million absorption of state investment loans, 100 million for structural measures and programmes in education. The total reduction of these costs is 800 million, which drives us away from the objectives of the "Europe 2020'. These are mainly capital costs and the reduction will lead to a minimum effect of limiting growth by one percentage point, i.e. instead of having growth 1.8 per cent, we will have 0.8 per cent. In the main priorities of the budget presented, in addition to the lack of measures for economic growth, social sensitivity and overall social policy. Personally, I am troubled by the other great absence of the finance minister from today's extraordinary meeting, as the constructive tèzi and proposals that are expressed today by this highest tribune risk remaining voice in the desert. Today, in practice, the budget will not be protected because it has no one but to be voted on. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] The report to the budget correctly takes into account the improvement of the economy in the first half of 2014. It is noted that domestic investments increased by 4.3 percent thanks to the government's capital expenditure. Consumption increased by 3.5 per cent. Unemployment has declined on an annual basis for the first time since 2009, after a 10-year maximum in the first quarter of 2013. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] Industry productivity increased by 3.3 per cent. The main growth factors on the part of demand and supply indicate an increase which does not in any way confirm the recent economic disaster thesis. Private sector credit rose by 2.6% by September at 0.5% earlier. However, the high excess liquidity in the banking system for next year does not result in an increase in this indicator, and surprisingly, the credit is slowing to 1.8 percent. Will the business completely lose its momentum from 2014 and its desire to invest?! Or this is due to the effect of the repayment due to the huge public debt to be borne at the amount of 8,1 billion. lv. And the banks would prefer instead of crediting the business, buying government securities?! Despite the fact that net debt is only changing by 2 billion, these 8.1 billion are important, as interest is paid on them. Interest costs increased in 2015 by 45 per cent compared to 2014, and in subsequent years continue to grow, which is a very disturbing trend. Direct foreign investments will retain their level as a percentage of GDP in the coming years, which clearly does not imply any improvement in the business environment. Moreover, the European Commission predicts a 2.3% reduction in domestic investments, which is a very disturbing signal for all foreign investments. Capital expenditure through the budget as the main means of growth in 2014 will be the highest, and in 2015 and so on reduce both in absolute terms and as a percentage of gross domestic product. It is envisaged to accelerate exports and reduce imports, but this can also happen in reducing the collection rate and neglecting the work of the Directorate of Fiscal Control. Budget 2015 is characterised by a lack of any success rate in terms of revenue collection. 2014 was very critical, but... [[Loud noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u212	How about you?! You have two updates!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u213	Please have a normal working environment in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u214	...the tax revenue as a share of GDP in 2014 rose by 0,9% and for the entire period 2015 - 2017 is intended to grow by only 0.6%. I appeal to the government to try a little harder in this regard to reach at least the catastrophic in your words 2014! Can we address the costs of individual areas, in separate directions, to pay attention to the defence costs, which we know the President has undertaken at the highest level, how they will reach a gradual 2%. Such a trend is not noticed. Not to mention that the expenditure in the Ministry of Interior system is estimated to be 340 million. lv. the following year. I repeat, I repeat, 340 million. lv.! And again we will find ourselves in the situation not only at 2014, but also at 2013, when at the end of the year we had to pay an additional 120 million. lv. for the budget of the Ministry of Interior. The situation is also analogical in 2014. In conclusion, the planned cost reduction in major areas is unrealistic, some of them will probably be increased between the two budget readings and others will simply need another update in 2015. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Chobanov, dear colleagues! There's a Latin wisdom that lawyers love very much, and I think all people like it, too. She says the words fly away and the writing stays. What is written in this case, which remains after your management, is the update that the Oresharski cabinet submitted. There you can see that even in this update you, gentlemen of BSP and DPS, admit that 1 billion of the pledged revenues will not be collected. At the same time, you spent it in advance and that money was spent. And now, when someone has to pay the bill, understand the next management with the current budget, you come here and criticize it, almost why they pay the masrafa that you practically spent. This is highly incorrect for me not to say a stronger word. I would like to point out to this management of the Oresharski office. It brought us once again after the management of BSP in excessive deficit. We are currently making an enormous effort to make savings so that this excessive deficit can actually be overcome and effectively enter this procedure, that is, within this budget, the deficit is not over 3%. That, of course, you don't appreciate either. I'm hearing from some hyperinflation specialists on the left some incredible interpretations of how the government's debt and that sort of thing were growing monstrously. There's no such thing. The government debt is growing by 2 billion to remind you, gentlemen from BSP and DPS, going to the Deposit Guarantee Fund in order to be able to pay these deposits to the depositors who are practically to be paid because a bank is bankrupt in your management. I'm thinking of stopping by to list all the exploits, because the time for the line is limited. Be a little more correct and remember everything you claim is virtually disproved by the update you submitted yourself during the Oresharski office. It's public, and we all know it. Things are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u217	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Chobanov, listening to your Komsomol speech, I feel that you were a finance minister not of Bulgaria but of Sweden. [[Radio.]] I feel that Bulgaria is overflowing with financial resources and we are putting them somewhere else, just not to give them to the people. Clearly you have forgotten that it was your management that caused serious damage in terms of foreign direct investment. Should I remind you that foreign direct investments in the first quarter of 2014 amounted to 58 million and, imagine, they all came from some offshore companies, i.e. unknown origins. Do I have to remind you that it is with you that unemployment has reached the peak, should I remind you that as a finance minister who observed the failure of a bank, namely the bankruptcy of dozens of Bulgarian enterprises, and in just a few weeks we will have to re-count the remaining unemployed from these bankrupt enterprises. I don't think he's honoring you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u219	Third line? You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you: we have submitted an update. We have submitted an update, led by our expertise and by our honest position, that this must be done so that we do not put into the inability of subsequent governments to do their job; to enable the debt limit to be increased so that this debt can be taken more smoothly, and not in December to have to take 3.5 billion that we can fast forward next year, but we will pay interest for them as well. The update we submitted was a 500 million cut in revenue. I recall: 2013 Revenue agencies also estimated that Budget 2013 has overvalued revenue of 1 billion. Then we re-upped by half a billion, and the rest we saved as expenses. The mid-year estimate of the revenue agencies was for half a billion defaults and we correctly submitted it as an update. No one has spent advance because it is against the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Perhaps in advance to some extent was spending the office, but this is a matter of another discussion. In the update we proposed, we did not propose an excessive deficit. The deficit that was proposed there was 2.7 percent. I do not know how many times we will also have to count the loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund and why we are pointing out it as the main reason for increasing the debt burden, because it has been made clear here that the Deposit Guarantee Fund will repay this loan and not the Bulgarian taxpayers. But 8.1 billion. lv. an increase in debt, i.e. newly issued debt next year more correctly, everyone sees it, and on these debts we will pay about 300 million more interest in 2015 compared to the catastrophic in your view of 2014. I would also like to remind you of another number -- an 8.8 billion fiscal reserve -- which we have left -- and currently there are 5.8 billion of it -- and that is, after the December pensions have been paid. So you see that the fiscal reserve is there and this is a buffer that can be used. With regard to foreign direct investment. For the first 8 months they amount to 2.7% of gross domestic product, and for the whole year it is estimated to be 3%. Remember what remains for the last 4 months and who reduces foreign direct investment. It is normal in this situation of political uncertainty that has been observed in the last quarter, now with the management of the quadruple coalition let God have political security. With regard to unemployment, I repeat the official numbers of national statistics, a reduction in unemployment in the first half by 1.5% points, for the first time since 2009. I repeat: a 10-year maximum of this indicator was reached in the first quarter of 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u221	Any other MPs who wish to participate in the discussion? Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u222	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! I must tell you that for the preparation of my speech, I have tried to see on the Internet since 2011 what are the headlines on the budget. In 2010, 2011, the leading word is a conservative budget. [[GERB's line.]] In 2015, it is exactly the same as we want to say that during this whole period reforms have not been implemented and only the spending restrictions have been leading in the drafting of budgets.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u223	There's been a world crisis. Don't you remember?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u224	Don't fight me. A world crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u225	Please do not replicate from the place the MPs who speak from the stand!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u226	I would, however, like to say that the sector of...... is dramatically different from the policy that the government has adopted, with the budget that is being presented to us for a vote. In what directions? First, several times was said a minimum insurance threshold and its increase from 240 to 420 BGN. Bulgaria has supported the European Parliament Resolution of 4 February 2014 on the future of small farms. In Bulgaria there are 220 thousand small farms that produce or grow no more than 10 decares of their production. Their financial part or income from agriculture is not more than 2 thousand. lv. I'm sorry, how are you gonna ask for $16,000? lv. to have a payment and 1700 leva. to pay annual insurance for the pension and health insurance? This is antilogical and therefore from here on you can understand how many of the Bulgarian producers will remain in the respective settlements and how we will solve the demographic problem, which, respectively, in your government is also leading as a solution to the problems in the small settlements. The sector is the agricultural sector. The budget limits the expenditure of the administration of the minor authorising officers. This can also not be accepted from the point of view that the administration has a number of control functions to perform, in defence of farmers and Bulgarian consumers. What's going on? The cost is reduced. The Fund is 70. 75% of the budgets... the cost ceilings of the secondary officers. How will they perform their functions? You may have some recipe in which you should tell us, respectively, how these functions are performed. In relation to the Fund, the Fund shall be managed by the Board of Directors of the Board of 300 million transfers or subsidies are provided for farmers. Absolutely, in no way can this be support for the sector of........................................................................................... For 2014, the transfers were 333 million. There are 450 million planned. Euros...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u227	The weather, Mrs. Bachvarova. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u228	I'm done. There are 450 million planned. EUR for the Rural Development Programme. A deficit of 100 million is envisaged. EUR, because we have to absorb 550 million. EUR in 2015 so that we do not lose money under the programme in 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u229	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u230	Mrs. Bachvarova, obviously today you have not listened to the report of the Committee on Agriculture, in which you participated and where we have all unanimously stated that we do not support for 2015 an increase in the minimum threshold of 240 to 420 BGN. Besides those who will support the budget, in the face of the political party GERB, Reformist Bloc, ABB and the Patriotic Union, you also voted for this, so there is no point in coming back and commenting on things that are clear and clear and are presented in the Ministry of Finance. As to whether the budget is sufficient. No institution's budget is enough, but this is the possible budget. We have repeatedly said: this is the possible budget. Let me tell you something else. Since you have talked a lot today about a social budget, being a member is not making you social, I mean the whole left, members of the Socialist Party. Social budgets are in rich countries. Show me a poor country in the world that is social. First we have to accumulate income and then distribute these incomes to the socially weak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u231	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u232	Thank you. It is true that in the Committee on Agriculture, one part voted against, others did not vote at all with regard to the minimum insurance threshold. I will be glad if this does not happen in 2015. The next time such proposals are made in the budget, they will be sufficiently well-founded financially and to see the consequences in the long term, because otherwise at this stage we are just saying that maybe it will not happen. It will really be very good to have this policy or that intention, which is set in the budget with the draft budget adopted by the Council of Ministers, to be and not to happen for 2015. Social is also fair, excuse me. What are we talking about from now on? "Search States had no relation or BSP had or had no relation. There just have to be budgets that are fair and support low income people, protect their jobs. It's social policy, at least for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u233	Forty-two thousand. You're unemployed. What do you mean, it happened?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u234	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u235	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! It is very easy to criticize when you know and can criticize because criticism is useful when justified. Today it would have been even easier if Bulgaria's economy had worked perfectly, generated revenue for the budget and for us so, for one logic, we would have only had to allocate funds. However, the management of the three coalition ruined the Bulgarian economy, it does not work, there is no income from this economy. Among other things, all the euro programmes were stopped because if we worked and generated funds on European projects, we had at least the opportunity to compensate for the budget update. So, honourable Members, indeed what this budget is proposing is not the best, and we all know that, but it can't be that good, given that our economy is practically frozen. But we have to be honest, we have to be realistic. What this budget proposes is stability in the first place. This budget offers stability and the opportunity to resume direct investments to Bulgaria. Something that every economist knows that if it doesn't happen, there won't be any economic growth. We have to say it. Yes, this budget cannot be called social in the real sense of the word. But was it the social budget of the government of Oresharski, which gave 3 leva. additionally to the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners? People were wondering how to spend it. So we must give ourselves a clear account and a clear idea that from 1 January 2015 Bulgaria must first take the path of stability; Bulgaria must ensure financial stability of its banking system. You all know that the banking system was facing a very serious blow and it is not even known if it has come out of this crisis yet. So we must be realistic and support this budget at first reading, and if there is something that can be done better, it must be tabled between first and second reading and naturally commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u236	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? The movement for rights and freedoms has 50 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u237	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, if you believe that the economy is spilled out in 2014 with economic growth 1.6 this means that you are predicting some collapse in the economy with 0.8 percent growth under the leadership of your party as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u238	Second line? A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u239	Mrs. Ahmedova, I see you're very impressed with economic growth of 1.6 percent. I'm also impressed with your reasoning. Thank you. [[Laughter and glad tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u240	Any other MPs? Are there any who wish to speak from the groups that have time? I don't see any. Before closing the debate, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would not have taken the liberty of wasting on the valuable time of the National Assembly and what the Council of Ministers wanted to say in terms of the budget, he said in the draft, which is of your attention. I would rather make some clarity, making one clarification and one reminder, but before that, I would like to say something else. Today I listened carefully to the debate, whether I was in the room or outside. I have listened to all the arguments I agree with, I have listened to all the arguments I disagree with. There's no bad argument. Even the argument I disagree with could be useful. Of course, the budget received criticism from the left, received criticism from the right and this is normal. That's normal. This isn't a doctrine budget. It reflects the situation as it is and what can be done. There were also valid arguments, there were not so many valid arguments. After all, let us be aware that the National Assembly is partly reflecting, and to another extent forms part of public prejudice. Of course, there were also comments that we cannot refer to the sphere of finance or economics, but rather to therapeutic practice, how much they commented on their own fears or their own past. But there's no need to pay attention to them. I wouldn't want to have a conversation today in style my budget is much better than your budget. That's not true. [[Applause from GERB.]] Now what I promised. First of all, the reminder. I accept the argument that in some of the categories of the budget, someone cannot see expenditure related to electronic management. This is true for one simple reason it is financed entirely by funds from the European funds Operational Programme "Administrative capacity" for the current programming period and by "Good management" for the new programming period. It is the same with many other spheres, priorities and policies. And, fellow Members, the reminder: for 2015 we have planned expenditure only from operational programmes for at least 4.5 billion. At least! A little lower than the Rural Development Programme. Furthermore, the plans of the cabinet are to open procedures from the new programming period for at least that much money. Some of the things you don't see as an imperative budget record are there, including some of the reforms. And an explanation I promised earlier. It has been mentioned several times with a cancer of reproach what low growth the finance minister has predicted. Colleagues, let me clarify: growth is what circumstances allow. Of course, there is a bilateral dependence on public expenditure. But that's what the economy allows. Minister Goranov may be strict, but by no means a villain. If the key to the keyboard depended on growth, I'm sure it would have dialed at least a two-digit number. And one final comment on how optimistic and how pessimistic the budget is especially in the growth category. Of course, I have the right to remind you, by doing a risk analysis, which is more dangerous: to arrive a few seconds earlier than planned to the finish line or to have a heart attack in the middle of the run. That's obvious. Just for the record, when we comment on the whole of Europe, if we comment on the Member States envisaged by the European Commission itself, next year's growth is first of all Ireland by 3.6 percent. The lowest is planned growth in Croatia and it is 0.2. The average for the European Union is 1,5, with regard to the Eurozone - 1.1 per cent. If we are talking about the world's conjuncture, it is the highest of the United States - 3.1 percent, at least of the major economies, of course, I exclude China, where it is much more significant, and Japan - 1 percent. By the way, the European Commission itself, when predicting what growth will be in Bulgaria, said 0.6 percent. This is an answer to whether anyone has been too conservative in terms of growth planning. And since I promised to be brief, let no one think that today I am trying to convince the honourable National Assembly that this is the perfect budget. No, this is not the perfect budget for many reasons. Not just because all human affairs are imperfect, but because this is just the possible budget. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u242	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The debates are closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a Draft Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Please vote. They voted 209 MPs: for 3, against 64, abstention 142. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Please vote. Vote 212 MPs: 130, against 82, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. For negative votes Mr. Tsonev, Mr. Gorov, Mr. Svetlin Tanchev. Mr. Tanchev, didn't you take part in the matter? You have no right to a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u243	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, although you are leaving, honourable Members! I voted against the proposals Draft State Budget Act, as well as the entire parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because this budget is a copy-past of the denied budget since 2014; because in this budget the majority does not set any goals except to be easily feasible; because this budget, except it is lazy, except it does not exert the efforts of the revenue agencies, in no way shows the ways and forms in which the majority has a vision, the policies in which the majority has a vision of how exactly the Bulgarian economy will come out of depression and will step in the way of economic development, because this is the principle, the method in which the quadruple coalition says it will raise incomes. And to be precise, I voted against it mostly because this is a budget in which there are no reforms. Yes, it sets financial stability as GERB promised. In this sense, perhaps only one of the four coalition partners states some fulfillment of its commitments - financial stability, financial consolidation, but at the expense of growth. When you see the structure of financial consolidation, you will see that it is at the expense of investment, respectively, at the expense of growth. But I ask the Reformation Block: where are the reforms in this budget? What part of it even hints at reforms? Which reform, which reformist bloc has declared as a major policy, is secured by financial resources or if it is not secured by financial resources, is at least indicated where this reform will be made? In this sense, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms put on this budget the label of the lack of reforms and the reformers say that if they intend to make reforms in this way, they are the reforms of magic! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u244	Mr. Gorov, second negative vote, then Mr. Tanchev. [[Noise and lines.]] It's just a line Mr. Tanchev made.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u245	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against it for several reasons. First of all, in Budget 2015 the revenues are underestimated, which leads me to believe that there are two options either you do not want to get the administration to work, or you have any other views and motives about this thing. The growth you are planning is below 0.8%, which you called bad, for 2014 Duty. In this House, I have repeatedly heard how a little over 1 billion debt in the previous budget is something scary for Bulgaria, which will be paid by your grandchildren. Today's debt over that 8 billion doesn't matter to you at all. Against the background of all of this we have: frozen children's, frozen income, unemployment is at the levels that are from 2014, which means that more than one Bulgarian citizen will not find a job by those who were employed in the previous year. At the same time, against the backdrop of your claim that the tax burden is the same, we have an increase in insurance, an increase in retirement age, which is practically another lie in this budget. At the same time, the possibility of the least profitable Bulgarian citizens with the minimum wage to receive the tax refund that they received in the previous year was cancelled. Something that can't be supported by any left-wing thinker, I don't know about the ABB colleagues how they did it with their vote. In healthcare, the situation is exactly the same as it has been before. Everyone will be dissatisfied with both the patients and the doctors and, if you will, the Health Insurance Fund. In conclusion, I can summarize how I see Budget 2015. This is the budget of the possible experience and nothing more for all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u246	Mr. Tanchev, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as President of the Bulgarian Democratic Centre, there is no way to support this budget. During our entire campaign, and even before that, we have proclaimed that the biggest scourge for the Bulgarian economy and prosperity are corruption, smuggling, lack of favorable business environment and deteriorating education. There are also problems in all other sectors such as health care, judicial, pension system and a number of others. Since the first day after the elections, we at the Bulgarian Democratic Center have said that we will support any policy in the interest of improving the living standard and business environment. Unfortunately, what we are offered with this budget does not address the above problems in any way. On the contrary, most of the proposed policies do not help for a better business environment, but on the contrary the burden of income is transferred to the regular and honest business rather than to smuggling and corruption; education money is cut and administration is blindly reduced by 10% without a clear strategy; there is no reform in the problematic sectors to solve these ill issues. It is clear that there is no way with a magic wand to overcome all problems, but still the Bulgarian Democratic Center is tolerant enough and we have given the necessary trust in the hope of seeing a clear vision to solve the problems in at least several areas, led by the maxim, that even the longest journey begins with a small step. Unfortunately, the only argument we have heard in support of the budget is stability, but this stability is false because it only supports next year. In the long run, with this budget, we are doomed to poverty, unfortunately. For all these reasons, I cannot support this budget and, unfortunately, I do not believe that the Bulgarian society will support it. Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-08.u248	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Tomorrow, according to the National Assembly's decision, an extraordinary plenary session starting at 10:00 p.m. Point 1 "Preparation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015" Point 2 of the Law of the State Social Security for 2015 I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
