ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention the following Project for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 26 to 28 November 2014. 1. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers. 4. Draft Law for the ratification of the Amendment of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development and implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Strategy between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. Choice of Standing Committees of the National Assembly. 8. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. The Conference of Presidents received a proposal from Mr. Haytov and was discussed by the participants in it. It is for a hearing of the Chairman of the SANS in connection with the Agency's operation on 25 November 2014 in Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Smolyan, Asenovgrad Municipality for the establishment of individuals and groups preaching fascist ideology, the preaching of war and radical Islam. The proposal is tomorrow, Thursday, as the first item for a closed session to be held for a hearing of the President of the SANS on these issues. This is the proposal of the Conference of Presidents, which is further outside the draft programme, which you have been aware of since yesterday. I propose that this be the first item for the plenary sitting tomorrow, 27 November 2014. Voting mode. Vote 192 MPs: 177, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. There has been a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Gokov, who proposes on the grounds of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure in the weekly programme should include a Draft Law amending the Social Security Code by No 454-01-30 of 29 October 2014, submitted by Maya Manolova, Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. Because the request under para. 3 to be included in the program of bills and acts of the National Assembly by MPs shall be bound by the expired term under art. 75, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, which in this case is not a question of a two-month period, which, with effect from 29 October, when the bill was submitted, has not yet expired. This proposal is prematurely made, therefore it cannot be put to the vote and therefore included in our weekly programme. A few messages... [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Excuse me? You want on the agenda? What procedure do you want it to be? Inform Mr. Merdjanov. We have very strongly commented on what we are talking about at the Conference of Presidents. Messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 19 to 25 November 2014: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Code with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act with Importer Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. The importer is Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Children's Family Aid Act. The importer is Stefan Kenov and a group of Members of Parliament........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Bill for the State Intelligence Agency. The importer is Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Pre-school and school education bill. The importer is Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. I'm waiting for the Standing Committees. An application has been made by Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva, co-chair of the ABB Parliamentary Group, which informs the People's Representation that as a result of a decision taken at a regular meeting of the ABB Parliamentary Group, guidance has been chosen in the composition: in the capacity of co-chairs of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Dr. Borislav Mihailov Borisov and Rositsa Yordanova Yanakieva-Kostadinova; Vice-Presidents Accordingly, the proposal has been made in the case-law and is reflected in the register. I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 25 November 2014 a written application was received from the National Representative Volen Siderov, with which he stated that on the basis of art. 134, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure consent to the waiver of his immunity as a Member of the National Assembly. It is the same with regard to the request received on 12 November 2014 by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, No 427-00-4, with which it is proposed to the National Assembly to give permission to arouse criminal proceedings in relation to the MP Volen Siderov. A letter has been sent to the Prosecutor General, in which he has been informed of the consent of the Member of the National Assembly and a certified copy of it has been attached. Moving to point one of the weekly program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE HAZARD LAW. There has been a report from the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u2	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Gambling Act, No 454-01-48, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs At its meeting held on 20 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act. The meeting was attended by representatives of the State Gaming Commission: Ognemir Mitev The bill was presented by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Gambling Act proposes the clarification and supplement of certain provisions in view of the recent amendments to the law adopted at the end of 2013. An addition to the provision of art. 10a on the expenditure of the social responsibility contributions to be made by the gambling organisers. An addition to art. is proposed. 30, para. 3, including lottery games for which this fee was not paid due to an omission in the law in 2014. Editorial amendments to the text of art. Art. 41, Art. 47e. With changes in art. Art. 57, Art. Art. 60, Art. 62 An obligation is introduced to submit the information from the central computer systems with which the respective gambling is provided except to a server of the National Revenue Agency and to a server of the State Gambling Commission. With the addition of art. 85 The State Gaming Commission is proposed to implement a forced administrative measure. The withdrawal of the license of three to 6 months, when the organizer of gambling does not pay within the term of his annual contribution under art. 10a. With the change in art. 92, para. 3 The order for forced collection of unpaid contributions under Article 3 shall be laid down. 10a. With the addition of art. 105 The circle of persons from whom administrative criminal liability will be sought shall be extended in the event of infringement of art. 10, para. 1 on the advertising of gambling. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 454-01-48, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 19 November 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Who will present the bill on behalf of the importer? Mrs. Stoyanova, I see no desire to present. I'm opening the debate. I provide information to the Members of the National Assembly regarding the Rules of Procedure of the Forty-third National Assembly. The time per art. 55, para. 1 is distributed, as follows, by minutes for the different parliamentary groups: GERB. 30 minutes, BSP left Bulgaria.. 18 minutes, Movement for Rights and Freedoms.. 17 minutes, Coalition..Reformator block.. 13 minutes, Patriotic front.. 12 minutes, Bulgarian Center of Democracy.. 11 minutes, Ataka Party...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Total time of the parliamentary groups " 126 minutes." You are aware that according to art. 55, para. 2 at the request of a parliamentary group, this time may be increased by one third of the minutes to be given to the individual parliamentary groups. Are there any MPs who wish to participate in the debates at first reading of the Gambling Bill? I don't see any desire to take part in a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act No 454-01-48, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. They voted 143 MPs: 126, against 10, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u4	I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings be shortened to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u5	A counteroffer? I won't. We vote on Mrs. Yordanova's procedural proposal. Vote 152 MPs: 135 against 7, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving to the second point of the weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE FOR 2014 With the report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Stoyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, please first, for a procedure to vote in this House to be admitted to Mrs. Rumyana Todorova, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and Mrs. Ganka Avramova, Director of the Directorate of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u7	Voting mode. They voted 165 MPs: 163, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u8	Report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance on the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014, No 402-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014. Second vote. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u9	Statements? There aren't any. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the law. We vote. Vote 150 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following 1. In para. 2: (a) in the text before the table, the number "3 148 110'; (b) in column 3, in row II, the number (c) in column 3, of row 1 (d) in column 3 of row 1.1 (e) in column 3, in row 1.1.3, the number of (f) in column 3, in row 1.1, health insurance payments for medicinal products for home treatment and diet food for special medical purposes. (g) in column 3, in row 1.1.3.6, health insurance payments for medical devices. supposed to be at least (h) in column 3, in row 1.1.3, the number (i) in column 3, in row 1.1.3.7, the number (k) in column 3, in row 1.1.3.8, health insurance payments for hospital medical care and hospital care. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The budget balance of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014 is confirmed as follows: III. BUDGETALDO (I-II) - 100 000. 3. The creation of para. 4. The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). IV. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u11	Statements? I do not see any Members of Parliament wishing to take part in § 1. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 160 MPs: 136 against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u12	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for the name of the division and proposes the following version:
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u13	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal. They voted 154 MPs: 130 against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u15	Statements? I won't. I vote on paragraphs 2 and 3, supported by the Committee on Importation. We vote. They voted 161 MPs: for 136 against 4, abstention 21. The proposal is adopted, and thus the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014 at second reading. The next item in the weekly programme is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR This appropriation There is a report from the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance for second reading. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u16	Thank you. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance and Mr. Dimitar Kostov, Governor of BNB, will be admitted to the Chamber first.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u17	We vote. Vote 158 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u18	Report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, No 402-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 November 2014. The Act for amendment and supplement of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 (prom., D.V., No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u19	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the law. Vote 156 MPs: 147 against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u20	Paragraph 1. There was a proposal of the MPs Georgi Kuchukov, Ivan Stankov, Ivan Ivanov, Kiril Tsochev, Mariana Todorova, Miho Mihov, Petar Kadiev, Rositsa Yanakieva-Kostadinova and Svetoslav Belemezov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 7, p. 2 the number..50 000, 0 thousand. To be replaced by 110,000 000,0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Mikov, Yanaki Stoilov, Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Turnovalyski, Zhelyo Boychev, Georgi Gokov, Stoyan Mirchev, Krasimir Yankov, Atanas Merdjanov, Atanas Zafirov, Dobrin Danev, Chavdar Georgiev, Angel Naydenov, Filip Popov, Tasko Ermenkov, Maya Manolova, Emil Raynov, Dimitar Dubov, Georgi Svilenski, Dragomir Stoinev, Christian Vigenin, Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova, Mariana Boyadjieva: "1." Paragraph 1 shall make the following changes: (a) c. 1 in the proposed new version of para. 1 of art. 1: - row I - "Accounts, aids and donations" (the number "18 200 939.5") is replaced by the number "Acceptances, benefits and donations" (the number "Auctions," 18 200 939.5) is replaced by the number "Acceptances, benefits and donations" (the number "Acceptances," is replaced by the - row I, 1 "Tax revenue" (Tax revenue) is replaced by the number "16 312 846, 7" (Tax revenue) is replaced by the number "16 649 846,7" (Tax revenue) (Tax revenue) and "Tax revenue" (Tax revenue) is replaced by the number "Tax revenue" (Tax revenue") (Tax - Line I, 1.4. The value added tax is replaced by 7 694 400,0 and 7 931 400 7,931,400,0. - Line I, 1.5. "Acts' is replaced by "4 160 000,0'; (b) c. 2: - in the letter................................. 10 178 485.0........................................................................ - in the letter "b', the number ".1 140 018' is replaced by the number "1 177 018'; - in the letter "in the letter ', the number..1 138 918.0 " is replaced by the number..1 175 918.0 "; - in the letter "de', a new item is created. 4.1.3, the number (c) c. 3 the number "supplied 2 676 908,4' is replaced by the number "supplied 2 376 908,4'; (d) c. 4 the number ssssq. 676 908,4 is replaced by the number sq.376 908,4. (e) c. 6, the newly created para. 7. - in t. 9 the number "s70 000,0 thousand BGN' is replaced by the number "s90 000,0 thousand BGN'; - created so-called. 11 and 12: I'm sorry, I'm Ministry of Culture up to 4 000,0 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c. 12. Ministry of Education and Science of up to 13 000,0 thousand BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Rositsa Yanakieva, Svetoslav Belemezov and Georgi Kuchukov: The expenditure for the Ministry of Education and Science is proposed to increase by 25 million. BGN, including: 1. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. to pay the increase in the minimum wage of non-pedagogical staff in schools, kindergartens and extra-school units for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014; 2. It is necessary to finance the full-time organisation of the educational process in the metropolitan schools in the 4th quarter of 2014 amounting to 12 million. BGN, for which no funds are provided in the budget. It should be taken into account that a 5% buffer in the education budget for 2014 amounts to 19 million. lv. It is likely that they will not be received from municipalities and this puts at risk the implementation of the budgets of the secondary officers in the municipal education systems. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u21	The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to apply for this. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We believe that the approach to so planned revenue and the framework of revenue in our proposed bill is extremely conservative, all the more so, and this proposal leads to a budget balance that will be over 3% budget deficit. I believe that our proposal is reasonable, moreover, that it is based on facts, on revenue reports at nine months, operational information that we have in October and, of course, an analysis of revenue trends in recent months over the years, as well as the expected effects of changes in tax laws introduced at the beginning of the year, in the work of revenue administrations, the effect of improving collection rates. A total revenue reduction of 1 billion is proposed. 61 million and 1 billion in tax revenues. 20 million. We are proposing with a modest 300 million tensions in the revenue-making industries of better revenue, to bring down the budget balance to the size of gross domestic product of 2.9%. We believe that this is fully feasible because also the revenues in September and October show significant growth in the two main revenue sources of VAT and excise duties. We believe that this is quite possible, as there was a problem with excise duties, of course, and VAT, from imports, one of the major operators, Lukoil Petrochem, was in a planned repair, which had an impact on revenue. With the completion of the repair and start of the operator's work, revenues will be much more significant at the end of the year if some poor revenue technologies are not applied. My fellow Members, I believe that it is the National Assembly's task to set high and feasible goals for the administration and to expect it to meet these objectives. Once again, I believe that this proposal is perfectly sensible and constructive, and it will make the budget deficit less than 3%, I am talking about what has been tabled as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! We at ABB have already expressed our partial satisfaction that 1 million. 234 thousand pensioners will receive Christmas allowances, albeit symbolic of 40 BGN. The number of pensioners in Bulgaria is 2 million and 100 thousand. We continue to insist that all pensioners in Bulgaria receive Christmas benefits at second reading we submitted such a proposal. My esteemed Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is right. We the ABB importers have wrongly pointed out § 1, para. 7, p. 2 with an increase of 60 million amounts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. However, the paragraph is not important here, the principle is important. The second note was where these funds would be taken to pay pensioners. They can be taken from several places. First of all, et cetera. 4 - Unforeseen expenditures, in the Council of Ministers is provided 279 million. lv. at his disposal, for distribution at his discretion. Secondly, Mr. Turnovallisky just explained that there is some optimism by the end of the year in the revenue section to get a better picture. Colleagues yesterday in the Temporary Budget Committee, most of them agreed that they should not be touched if the picture of the excessive deficit was improved, for new costs. I do not believe that we can fall below 3% excessive deficit. In this regard, whether or not there will be a procedure, I think we will wait for the European Union's recommendations, which will not be until April next year. We will see what our political will will be to implement these recommendations. We have relatively stable budgetary discipline and will hardly enter into a budget procedure. I say all of this with a view to paying attention to these decent people, the pensioners! Let all pensioners of 2 million. $100,000. people in Bulgaria, to receive smiles during Christmas holidays. Let us firmly bet in the 2015 budget these Christmas allowances in the hope that in 2016 there will also be a thirteenth pension for our pensioners. I'm going back to another feather that could probably not be used. Corporate Commercial Bank and I have created political noise and talk for more than five months. Now that we have a quick hand, we were obliged to fix this case, and we have predicted that we have increased the debt by 4.5 billion. Never in the last history of Bulgaria was the debt increased for a year by 8.9 billion. We're lending 2 billion to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. All accounts made and indicated here by the parliamentary tribune quoted that 2 billion are available in the Fund. 200 million and that a maximum of 1.5 billion is needed. lv. In the column, at the bottom, we're pointing at $2 billion. BGN, meaning there's a buffer in the order of 400 to 500 million. Of course, the case CTB does not affect the excessive deficit, but I would normally like to explain that when we look at this case, we quickly make a decision, and when we have to make a decision about our pensioners, we reject it under the pretext that we increase the state's excessive deficit. I plead and call on all my fellow Members in plenary to pay attention to this moment. Let them think about it. We have a very serious financier here. Deputy Minister Kiril Ananiev. It is a matter of a few minutes to make equilibristics and put in the budget the necessary 60 million. lv. to the necessary place for the pensioners to be smiled at least during Christmas holidays! Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement. Single applause by ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. Any other lines? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, as one of the importers in this paragraph, I would like to present some of our arguments for our proposals. We note that the establishment of the 2014 budget was in a completely different situation with quite other forecasts, which did not take into account the Ukrainian crisis and the subsequent opposition between the European Union and Russia, which directly affected trade and economic trade between the two countries, ultimately leading to a drop in prices of energy raw materials. This has affected the revenue side of the budget. When we were doing Budget 2014, no one was counting that within this year there would be two choices and three governments. This will have no impact on the work of the revenue administration. In our proposal, we were led by the fact that it is good for the country to keep the Maastricht criteria. We felt that with the opportunities that the budget has and with the adjustment that we can make at the moment, we can enter into a 3% deficit. I understand that it is very difficult since during the second half of the year the spending discipline was missing and we saw over 300 million. BGN spent by the caretaker government without being foreseen in the budget; we witnessed 700 million. BGN taken out of the fiscal reserve to pay off the European programmes, but in the end, I just want to remind you that there was a 5% buffer in the costs of all departments, which was acquired by the caretaker government. I would like to remind you that such a buffer was also found in the public investment programme. I would like to remind you that the budget was made with a deficit of 1.8% and up to 3%, honourable Members, that is another 1 billion. lv. Therefore, in the hands of all of us, it is the country to broadcast a positive signal at the moment, as we believe that an excessive deficit of 3.7% worsens macroeconomic indicators, the investment environment and gives a very bad signal to international markets, and in a situation when we go out and look for resources from there. It is clear to you all that this is not going to affect the price of this resource. I also expect serious support from reformist economists in the discussion. During the discussion at the first reading of the update, I listened to how the repeal of Regulation No 3 has damaged the revenue side of the budget. I think Mr. Vanyo Tanov has been running the Customs Agency for the past six months. This regulation is a decision of the Council of Ministers, a regulation, I suppose, that the reformers colleagues know it has entered into force. The readings we've done show that 100 million. lv. in the revenue section, in the pen, the Aktiziz is a very achievable quantity. I would like to make it very clear that the responsibility for this excessive deficit, if voted so, will be entirely for this government and for this majority, which will vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to take this point into account, but somehow we were specifically asked. We, as well-mannered people, when we are specifically asked to take action, do our duty. First, colleagues from BSP, there is something factually false and incorrect in your proposal. Even if revenue is increased by 337 million, this will not lead to a deficit of less than 3% in the Consolidated Programme, which is the Maastricht criteria, or what is important, but will lead to less than 3% in the Republican budget. However, the financial markets you are talking about and the idea of Maastricht criteria is viewed consolidated debt. That is, you are misleading the National Assembly that even if your proposal were to be adopted, it would mean lowering below 3% of the budget deficit. Yes, this is only true for the Republican budget, colleagues, make a difference, but it is not true for the Consolidated, which is the key issue. Moreover, if we look at VAT collection trends during the year compared to the nine months, there was half a growth rate 2014 compared to 2013. That is to say, we expect 237 million at the end of the year. lv. More VAT revenue is unrealistic. The same applies to the income from excise duties, which in 2014, notice, are moving below the collection rate of 2013, which means that we expect 100 million more from here by the end of the year, too seems extremely unrealistic. Colleagues of the BSP, you are placing a very bad risk after default, and the critical failure of the budget that you have accepted is the government and your triple coalition, and now to accept an update that will also not be implemented. In other words, imagine twice in one financial year two budget forecasts, if you want us to express ourselves in this way, adopted by different national meetings not to be implemented, it is, indeed, a very bad signal to all investors and to all financial markets. Twice in the same year, two forecasts are not to be fulfilled. I do not believe that this is the purpose of BSP colleagues. I don't believe there's a purpose to compromise government finances. I cannot allow that to be the desire in their proposals. I hope that this is about underappreciateing the potential of collecting additional revenue. This is a very serious motive, colleagues, to reject strongly, we must strongly reject this BSP proposal because, imagine what Bulgaria will look like on the international financial markets if different parliaments and different governments within a year twice cannot meet their forecasts for the budget deficit. Moreover, even what BSP proposes has become clear with regard to the consolidated programme and the consolidated deficit, does not lead to a deficit of less than 3%, which, I believe, if any of BSP colleagues take the floor, there will be no choice but to recognise this finding. By the way, I do not know if it has become clear that BSP colleagues offer an additional increase in some costs. In other words, not only will the deficit not be removed, but if these proposals are adopted, they also suggest an additional deficit of 33 million. BGN, which, given the situation in which the state finances are located, is also not a proposal that deserves to be supported. Colleagues, I would end up with the following in the spirit of constructiveism, if there is something positive that we can discuss on this point and say in the end, it is as follows: if there is any overexecution in revenue in the budget, which I personally expect will not be in these sizes at any time, it will be on a much smaller scale. And, I hope, with regard to the European funds, there will be no additional deficit. Then this money can really be saved, not to allow additional costs and the deficit in a natural way, at least a little bit less even at the end of this year. Hopefully this scenario will develop in this way, but there are very few deadlines in which to make a drastic change in the work of revenue administrations. Yes, they also have problems because of the political situation this year, and because of the reduction of the control of excise goods, which was recognised here by BSP colleagues, and I really thank you for this recognition. But these problems can be solved next year. They cannot be resolved in a month. I hope there will be a really much better collection of tax revenue next year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u29	- What's the line? Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Dimitrov, today we are looking at the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act and we are therefore commenting on 3% of the state budget. The consolidated fiscal programme nobody commented on it, we have no data, all the more so, that after the Prime Minister's application: "Eight hundred million from the European Union are arriving, there is no problem to meet and this requirement for the Consolidated fiscal programme. Here, from this tribune, this has been stated. With regard to revenue, I would like to tell you that what we are offering with regard to excise duties, in September, the revenue is 417 million, in October And if in November and December we have revenues within 394 million for the two months, which is fully feasible, our proposal will be real. With regard to value added tax, the tensions, I said, are slightly greater, but it is fully feasible. We propose that we have a budget balance below 3% of gross domestic product. If your idea is to have an excessive deficit and lead to this state, I have no explanation why we should want this. My only normal explanation is that you want the European Commission to have an excessive deficit procedure so that it can force you to make the reforms...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u31	Which you didn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u32	...who we're all waiting for because you can't seem to make them yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Second line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I feel like we've exchanged places in this room. I have followed your statements in the years behind, you have always been the judge of a fiscal stability, of a budgetary discipline. At the moment, if you have missed, looking at the Budget update report, I must remind you that it has increased the cost by 397 million since you looked at the 37 million that we have proposed. And somehow it seems strange to me that the situation in which we find ourselves the left-wing ones to aim at preserving fiscal positions, the country's fiscal indicators, and that the representatives of the reformist right are those who want an increase in spending by nearly 400, a reduction in revenue and entry into an excessive deficit procedure. My colleague Turnovalliski replied to you. We are looking at the National Budget and we are therefore commenting on the National Budget deficit. We were all in this room when Prime Minister Borisov declared that the European Commission is releasing the money and that 800 million will enter, and we will monitor the deficit on the account of the European Union funds. Therefore, at the moment we have adhered to the declared by Prime Minister Borisov and trust him. And we are convinced that the government's work, the trust it has in the European Union, will not lead to a deficit in the European Union account in the National Fund and hence in the excessive deficit procedure in the Consolidated fiscal programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u35	Thank you. Mr. Dobrev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you made a constructive statement with a view to the future. However, you should have pointed out at the same time, because we heard from colleagues from the Left that hardly everything is wrong in the state, the deficit can be below 3%, there is no problem with revenues, Vanyo Tanov was able to catch them up because he was the executive director of the Customs Agency for half a year, but how to catch them up, given that he could not restore the work under Decree No 3, because colleagues changed the Law on excises and tax warehouses, with which a change de facto prevented the Regulation? And without parliament, the measuring instruments cannot be restored. You should have told them that the data shows what we're doing today, just to sign the bill, and there's nothing else we can do, because the revenues are gone, the expenses are done. You should have told them they had a default on all kinds of revenue. This clearly shows and proves that the revenue side has been increased in order to keep the deficit below 3% and to be able to make the costs. And if you see now, let's keep it under 3% of this deficit again, because if it becomes 3.7 or 3.3, or more than 3%, someone will blame the Oresharski government for having put Bulgaria in penal procedure, which is a fact. You should have paid attention to all these facts. You should also tell them that because of this Regulation No 3.. it is clearly written in black and white in the report, there is a non-compliance with the excise duty and VAT rate of more than 400 million. lv. in an annual context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u37	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! We find ourselves in the following situation: a driver has driven a car, has crashed, gets out of it and asks: "What have you done that you have come to help now, after the crash? [[Noise and lines.]] This is what colleagues from BSP and DPS do. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] They crashed this year, and we are currently trying to do everything good to mitigate the consequences, but the driver gets out of the car, comes to the stands and asks: "Oh, boy, what's going on? Why did you let us crash like this? [[BSP LB.]] Well, we were trying our best to help all the time, colleagues, not to crash, but right now we're just figuring out the damage and trying to mitigate it, that's what this is about. And your proposals in this case do not help and, unfortunately, are populist and unfulfilled. Because, excuse me, really repealing Decree No 3, canceling the control of excise goods and finally wondering why you have not fulfilled the VAT and excise revenue is a serious political game, but it is extremely unfair that this guilt should be treated to this National Assembly, to this majority, to this government. It's just not fair, it's not fair! In addition, colleagues, you owe an answer to this question after all: why did it come to this? Why did you eventually decide to cancel control of the monopolies with regard to excise goods? Each one of the parties in charge at the time, the BSP, the DPS and the Attack, owe this response to the National Assembly. We have not received an answer so far, but patiently continue to wait in the hope that one of you will eventually be able to give some acceptable explanation. And the explanation is not: "You have recovered it. " - You first said: "What have you canceled this control? Tell us your motives, but instruments that are bought, installed, working, investments are made, tell us in simple terms why you canceled this control. Because if you'll excuse me, you'll have to cancel control at the same time and ask for more revenue from VAT and excise tax, it's extreme demagogy and nothing more, nothing less, after all! Furthermore, the general budget deficit is important. And here, one of my BSP colleagues, not to mention his name, is talking about a national budget. The national budget shall be the consolidated budget, Members. The other is the Republican budget, i.e. the national budget is the consolidated budget. You and your proposals do not reduce the deficit below 3% in the national budget in question or, more precisely, in terms of economic budget, and this is the indicator that all investors, the European Commission is monitoring. So really because of the Oresharski cabinet this year there will be an excessive deficit. A criminal procedure will begin, but if the finances are under control in Budget 2015, the deficit is below 3%, all of this can be controlled. This is the goal of solving the problems inherited from the Oresharski Office in 2015. I hope we can solve them! [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u39	Are there any other MPs willing to participate in the debate? Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u40	Dear colleagues, perhaps we would have believed your arguments if they were objective and did not manipulate your own report under the Budget Act at first reading. Don't you people read these things by writing them? [[Calls: "E-e-e!" by GERB.]] See what it says here? All right, let's read a little bit if you don't read it: The net drop in VAT revenue is 274 million. Fact! [[Noise and lines.]] We'll get to the excise, Mr. Dobrev. And why this is so? 203 million less VAT revenue from imports as a result of a permanent downward trend in imports of crude oil, 20 million less income from imports of raw sugar for refining, 24 million less because of the economic situation in Ukraine. The main reason for lower expected revenues by the end of the year is the price of crude oil, which reports a daily downward trend! And not a word about contraband, VAT fraud, cabinet failure, overrated... Not a word in your report! Akzizi, Mr. Dobrev! For excise duties, again non-refundability is noted. And what is the main reason indicated? The main factor that has a negative impact on excise revenues is the opportunity to refund the excise duty for fuel to farmers of 50 million. Yes, the problem of measuring instruments is noted, and nowhere is it mentioned that there is a loss and a lev for the budget. We're talking budgets, we're talking numbers! Read, Mr. Dimitrov! If you don't have it, I'll give it to you! Here is the Commission's First Reading Report. When we assess things, to be objective in this assessment, because obviously we need to take steps to improve this. And in order to improve, we need to eliminate the causes. Here the reasons are given are different from those you point out. A little more facts: you're talking about the previous office. Towards the half-year when the previous cabinet finished work, we have a collection rate of 46.7% revenue and expenses of 47%, of the 100! In half a year, 46.7 has been collected and 47 has been spent! Yes, the entire revenue portion has not been collected, but the expenditure shows no spending that you claim we have done and that the budget is wronged with this. More than that. We're going down the trend backwards in the years. I think one of my colleagues called for us to see the past! Several years back to the half-year, the collection rate is the same regardless of who has managed and what budgets it has been doing - 46-47-48 percent collection rate towards the half-year, as a trend. And another trend, colleagues, if we go back in the years. There was always more revenue in the second half of the year. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. $600 million in excess of VAT and excise duties. There are objective reasons for this. In this year there is another additional objective reason for more VAT in the second half of the year and this is the reverse charge of VAT, that is, when we offer it, we do not make it populist. We've evaluated it, we've calculated it. You yourself admit that perhaps more revenue will come in and that this will be good at the end of the year, only that the information outside that we are already in over-deprived will have played a negative role in Bulgaria, in terms of the investment climate, in terms of excessive deficit and monitoring procedure, probably financial restrictions, with which we expect in Budget 2015 to justify, for example, the freezing of incomes. This is a step towards your work on Budget 2015, so it is not just with horizon 2014. You bet such parameters to justify in 2015 a restrictive financial policy to limit social costs, God forbid, for payments to businesses and VAT refunds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u41	- What's the line? Mr. Dimitrov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u42	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I understand from your speech, and I believe that most of my colleagues that during the cabinet Oresharski's financial problems were not there, that everything was fine with regard to the implementation of revenue and with regard to the costs incurred. Then I would like to ask you: if so, why did this same cabinet itself propose a budget update? Well, that doesn't make any sense! If everything is right with the revenues and expenses, it should not be the Oresharski cabinet itself and the then finance minister themselves to bring in and propose an update of the budget, that is, you are falling into a very serious demagogy and contradiction. If everything was okay and when everything is okay, budget update is not done! I would be very happy and very interested to follow your explanation on this: if everything was okay with the spending part of the budget and everything was okay with the revenue part of the budget, why did Oresharski cabinet prepare and submit an update by the middle of the year? It's not clear! And this update envisaged a change in the revenue side of the budget, which was serious. Why? I'd be grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u43	Second line? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u44	Dear Mrs. Ninova, you are reading the reasons for the report on the first reading. If you look at page four, you will see that there is a decrease in fuel consumption by 16.5%. Fuel drop by 16.5%. Do you know what that means? The week has five working days. One working day is 20% of the time of the week. It's like every single one of us who uses a car to go to work, one day a week on a bike or on foot. Do you see hundreds of thousands of citizens on wheels or walk to work?! You can't see, I guess. I can give you another example. Instead of going to the sea by car, let's go this year to Yambol, not to Burgas or to Varna. There is no logical explanation for a 16.5% drop in fuel consumption. In terms of... I forgot the second part of the line, I'll make it into a statement. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u45	Third line? I won't. Mrs. Ninova for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u46	Mr. Dimitrov, there is another person in the hall to whom you need to make a replica about the budget update in June and July. If he wants to, he'll answer. I recall that BSP was against this update, with its arguments then, and did not support it. And now we stand in this position that it was not necessary at the time. But if the colleague does not talk about these issues, let me remind you of what Oresharski's report said about the update. It said, "The 2014 budget." I will rephrase because I do not remember the exact quote, but more or less: The budget for 2014 can withstand the option in which we have accepted it. There's a definite sentence like that. [[Reply by MP Martin Dimitrov.]] However, we propose an update in view of the unstable political situation, the office, upcoming parliamentary elections, not knowing exactly when the new Parliament will be elected and a new government drawn up, not putting the state at risk, but the whole thing stood the agreement: the budget can stand the way we have adopted it. Regarding Mr. Dobrev. What's the explanation for the fuel drop, we know it, we've talked about it a lot. But you say it's not logical to have such a decline. Well, that's what it says, and here's your signature on the fuel drop. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] What's the logical explanation, you know that. We are talking about the renovation in Neftohim. In the first months of the year and the non-working of the company for objective reasons, of course, so don't look elsewhere for the reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u47	The consumption...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u48	There are objective reasons, but they are not the ones you point to. I mean, the cabinet failed at collections and so on. To tell you the truth, purely political and populist I expected in this report to have seven sentences about smuggling. You always do when we talk about excise duties and VAT, and always the accusation is such that the previous government has not managed to collect because it patronizes smuggling channels. I congratulate you that this time you have not been tempted by this populism and that there is not a single word in the report about the irrecoverability of excise duties and VAT from smuggling. Of course, the problem exists. I'm not saying we've liquidated the smuggling, but obviously that's not the reason for the non-collection in revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u49	Any other MPs? Mr. Tsonev had asked for the floor. Let's hear from Mrs. Yordanova and then Mr. Tsonev will give her turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u50	Thank you. My fellow Members, I had no intention of speaking, however, from everything I have heard so far from my fellow Members on the left, I cannot stand by. It turns out, colleagues, that until a few months ago you have not managed the Clean, Unblemished, Newborn, and the current update has absolutely nothing to do with you. What's practically going on right now? Right now, we're all gonna pay the bill for what you spent. The update, § 1, in practice, finds expenditure already incurred. What should we be more convinced of?! Neither we have made them, nor anyone else in this House. Your government has made them!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u51	The office.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u52	Moreover, my fellow Members, I take occasion from what you suggest, this speculation with the costs of the office must be stopped because virtually no one could predict natural disasters. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please don't call.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u53	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u54	No one could predict the natural disasters for which money had to be given, so do not speculate about the grief, suffering, and misery of the people first. Secondly, as regards the additional costs that you fellow Members of the BSP make. Absolutely ridiculous. You should be silent right here, at this point, and not have a single proposal, because you have no moral right to make proposals, because all that we are currently looking at is thanks to your superhexpert management. Why shouldn't additional costs be sought? Because, in practice, with the proposals you make, you are going into nonsense and you are proposing to make additional costs, and you are proposing at the same time to reduce the deficit. Well, how do we do that?! Is it not more reasonable, since we all think about reducing the excessive deficit that emerges for entry into the Maastricht criteria, all the revenues that will go further if, of course, such.. to work precisely in this direction to reduce the excessive deficit?! That's what we're all looking for, isn't it? It is not normal to claim that in the last two months and even more in two weeks of government of the cabinet Borisov-2 will be able to collect so much revenue that they will cover a shortage of approximately 450 million. lv. As regards VAT, as much as in excise duties compared to 2013, provided that for the first ten months of the year the growth in VAT revenues compared to 2013 was only 111 million. lv. You know, that's practically not gonna happen, so stop fooling people. Colleagues, regarding the proposal for additional funds of the Ministry of Education and Science. I would just like to remind you, as this is a rather populist proposal that 12 million. lv. have already been given for full-time training under the Operational Programme..................... and would actually receive double payment for the same thing. The remaining 13 million. lv. for an increase in wages are also paid because they are laid down in the budget. lv. from them, and separately the caretaker government has transferred another 4 million. BGN, so there is no point in such proposals. Yeah, they're nice, they're populist, they're committed, they're all courting the field of education. Reforms are yet to come, and there must be a lot of work, but not in this way, because all this has already been paid for and done, and otherwise it comes out, according to the proposal, which has been made that education is almost left without the necessary resources, which is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u55	Are there any lines? Here's your first line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u56	Dear colleagues, manipulate, please, whatever information you want, just not the one with the floods! I'm putting a very personal element into this question, believe me, because I've experienced Mysia from the first person singular. Do not abuse these people by claiming that the costs of the office are for floods. Here is a reference from the office: 16 million were allocated to overcome the damage caused by natural disasters. Here is the reference for all expenditures of the office, above the limits of Budget 2014: 204 million. lv. Yeah, well, 16 for floods, and up to 207?! And they hadn't broken the budget law from the office, and they were clean as a whistle! Think of another excuse for these actions of the office, but not the floods, problems and ruined lives of these people during natural disasters! And don't say we're against helping them. Because I recall that on the last day of the previous cabinet, we voted 50 million. lv. additional flood costs. Regarding your other ones. We were offering additional revenue, increasing the deficit. However, we are reasonable people, and by proposing to make additional costs, we have offered a source of revenue. So we do not increase this deficit with these costs. In terms of teachers' salaries and, more precisely, the non-pedagogical staff. You say that this is populism and that people are provided with these salaries. Please excuse me, we trust each other, we're colleagues, but in this case, I believe more on this document. [[shows him]] . It's a document I've been served by the CST. In this case, I believe more of Plamen Dimitrov, who has signed and who claims that for non-pedagogical staff for salaries and minimum salary of 340 BGN, they do not have 13 million by the end of the year. lv. In a conversation with the trade unions on budget update, we have specified these numbers and we are importing them absolutely in good faith, I think, and professionally justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u57	Second line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yordanova, I think that when it comes to updating the budget, we should speak not in general, but with specific numbers. Also, when you talk about extraordinary and more than planned expenditures of the office Plamen Oresharski, you should also talk to numbers. Unlike you, we showed with numbers how the office of Bliznashki, behind which stood GERB, performed over 1 billion. lv. exceptional expenditure not included in the expenditures required for which relevant decisions of the Council of Ministers were required. By the way, if you bother to review the government's website during the management of the official Prime Minister Bliznashki, you will see that it had loosened the purse and spent freely, apart from the money needed for the floods and for the disasters, but also for this, before the elections to pay off GERB mayors [[GERB's lines: "E-e-e-e-e-e!"]] , for extraordinary projects, to pay off companies that are close to GERB, for money that should have been received by the end of this year, to make all exotic public procurements for consulting contracts, for PR, for strategies, for software. That is, if your thesis that the state is in financial collapse and in crisis is correct, then it meant that the government before you, namely that of Gemini, should at least be ashamed of the best man to tighten the belts. On the contrary, 1 billion. lv. The Council of Ministers decreed 206 million, 750 million in advance paid out of outstanding European money, just before the elections, and about 150 million, collected by the municipalities under the government investment programme and distributed for other purposes. It's not bad if you really want to be convincing and someone to believe you, pull out some numbers. The other is naked populism and accusations that are not supported by any facts. Do not do the honour of a debate on budget update to speak to the Angro as you have been doing since the beginning of this discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u59	Third line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I would like Mrs. Yordanova to say what is the amount of unforeseen extraordinary expenses of the Oresharski cabinet in the first six months, what is their size in the second part of the year. If it makes it difficult for her, let me tell you that my colleagues before me mentioned that Mr. Bliznashki's government spent nearly 300 million, colleagues who had unforeseen budget expenditures. We have them at meetings of the Council of Ministers specifically. We can get them out to you from here on out and you will give me the arguments what was urgent of these costs to your municipalities, to certain construction companies, to certain insane projects that had to be paid, provided that it is clear that the situation in the revenue section will not be implemented. And since there is a lot of speculation about what state we have left the state in, I would like to ask Mrs. Yordanova to say what are the main indicators of the country in the six-month period, what was the fiscal reserve in those six months, what was the economic growth in those six months, because when we took over the government, the economic growth was negative and the statistics came out yesterday and for the third quarter of this year was 1.6. I've got the numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u61	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u62	They're official statistics. So I ask: in the six months of this country, what was the deficit, what was the growth, what was the debt, what were the main indicators? From there we can conclude about this financial disaster and the apocalypse in which you are trying to point out that we have left the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's why my request is...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u63	Hole, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u64	Colleagues, I'm gonna say this one more time. Turns out the caretaker government didn't rule for two months, but 22. If everything was so fine, I would ask a rhetorical question why did you resign? [[Applause from GERB.]] Because you couldn't fulfill your income or for any other reason? Why the revenue was overrated when the budget was drawn up by 2 billion. lv. compared to 2013 and quite logically a 1 billion-dollar default at the end of this year? Why? It is clear why 'cause across the street you had to make your election spending, only that these election spendings turned out to be of no use to you. That's the simple truth. Any other speculation about how much the caretaker government is responsible for us being in this chal right now is simply groundless. Indeed, shame on you and stop speculating on this subject. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u65	Mr. Yordan Tsonev has asked for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it would be good to return the debate to § 1 of the Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act, because it seems to me that it was in place at the first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act. Nevertheless, I see that questions continue to be asked, whose answers are either not heard or need to be repeated to be understood. I will allow myself to begin with the question of failure, first, in general, of budget and its planning. I welcome the professional tone of reasoning and of the report presented to us, where the objective factors leading to non-compliance with the revenue side are taken into account. That's really true. I would like to say once again to all of you that planning has been carried out under other conditions and with a forecast that the cabinet will continue to manage throughout the year. Here I would like to tell you that the Oresharski cabinet is the only cabinet in the transition that has not been able to implement an independent budget, that is to say, has implemented half of the previous government's budget and half of its own budget. So we have no reason to draw conclusions since we have not completed a whole budget year. I'm telling you this objectively. Who are professionals in this room, and they're not few, they know that's true. To guess how many wouldn't be overrun revenue is really guessing. The movement for rights and freedoms at the end of the previous government's mandate said it would support an update because there have been significant changes in the macroeconomic environment and they are, I will repeat them: the Ukrainian crisis has slowed the growth of the European economy, the recovery of the European economy. To recall: 67% of our exports are oriented towards the European Union. Let me remind you that sanctions have affected the Bulgarian economy. We support sanctions, but we cannot fail to reflect that fact. To recall the fall of energy carriers and all those objective factors that are reflected in the motives for the government's proposed amendment. So we saw this need at the time and therefore said that the government correctly imports and we support an amendment in which there was a reduction, but the expectations for the implementation of revenues by 500 million. Our position on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is to refrain from supporting the submitted update for the reason that we do not believe that this approach should be the one and that we need to verify the lack of effort from the office to improve revenue collection. Here I will open a clamp: the previous office has handled this task. Indeed, it has increased revenue collection and tightened costs. We've admitted it many times so as not to incriminate us in politicizing the problem. But this guy couldn't handle it. Our assessment is weak twos of this office in this work. Spending more than 300 million of them outside the floods and damage, dear Mrs. Yordanova, these costs are very small. Just so you know, in the budget amendment that we have made through the Health Insurance Fund budget, we have provided another 50 million for disasters. So it wasn't an unexpected expense, it was foreseen. We had to look for another approach. Verification of wrongfully incurred costs we do not accept. Secondly, with regard to the non-compliance of excise duties. Mr. Dimitrov, let me remind you of the fact that, normally, you did not participate in the previous parliament and perhaps the experts fooled you. The repeal of Decree No 3 is because it did not meet the requirements of the law adopted in 2010 by the majority of GERB. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103a of the Law on excises and tax warehouses have defined the points... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u67	Time, Mr. Tsonev. You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u68	Yeah. ...are defined points, and they are.. where the appliances are placed: at the entrance, of the production, of the warehouse and of the extraction. In the ordinance that was issued after that, this thing was done. The difference between the two regulations is that the first data are submitted and were different from the different appliances only to customs, and the second is submitted to customs and to the Ministry of Finance and are unified to be identical. The law has been adopted in 2010, art. 103a. And to correct you: the law has not been amended. The law on excise duties and tax warehouses in its part, which concerns...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u69	Please get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u70	This hasn't been altered...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u71	You'll probably have a line. During the dot, you will continue. Do you have any lines? For the first line, Mr. Dimitrov. I can't see the second and third lines. Please observe the time provided for in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u72	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Tsonev! What you are saying about Decree No 3 and the excise duties is that there is a contradiction between the Law on excise duties, really adopted 2010, and the Regulation. And there were two approaches. One approach is to cancel and replace the regulation with another type of regulation, as has happened. The other approach of the majority of the DPS, BSP and "Attack" was then simply to change the law. Just change art. 103a in such a way that the control investments already made and the appliances installed continue to operate as they are installed and as they are made. That is, this was one approach of this majority. The other approach was simply to lower control and justify the law. This is what the majority then did to the BSP, the DPS and the attack. And I don't agree with that approach. And as many times as you bring this up, Mr. Tsonev, with my greatest respect for you, I'm telling you that this approach was not the right one for me. The correct approach was to bring the law into a form where the already installed appliances and the investments made continue to work. I have a second question for you. Since I have heard many people from BSP take the floor and speak, my second question to you, Mr. Tsonev, is this: is there a BSP cabinet that does not end with a severe deficit? Just give me one example. Lukanov, Jean Videnov, Stanishev or Oresharski? In other words, a cabinet with a BSP mandate that does not end with a severe deficit is there in the new Bulgarian history? Is there one? Because if there isn't, I don't see why we're having this debate if all the offices end up the same way with a budget failure. In this situation, what is the point of this debate, I would like to ask you? [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there a second line? For the back, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Another inaccuracies. The appliances that were installed were recognised as an investment and no one forced them to unmount them. I'm telling you again, do a background check. In order to be precise and not to let you down before I spoke, I did a check of three places in the Office of Customs and the Tax Policy of the Ministry of Finance and among colleagues to be precise. Your information is false. That's where you get the wrong conclusion and the wrong question. The appliances that were installed were recognised as an investment, and no one forced them to unmount them because the points were not changed and the four points. The law is not changed because we, as GERB, believe that the four points are sufficient, they are the right points, the question is only the Customs Agency to collect the data, check and do its job. And now you're still not going to change the Tax Act in its 103a part, because you just don't have any other points to put in the measurement. And the instruments are recognized, and the measuring points are the right ones. It's about the agency doing its job. Please, the experts who give you information that the investment for the appliances has not been recognised and these instruments have not been... You are being misled or punished, or changed, because here we are entering into a dispute and we are wasting parliamentary time, and I, instead of expressing my macroeconomic ones, have to give you information for a third time so that you are not misled that this is not true and does not correspond to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u75	Thank you. Next is a statement by the MP Vladislav Nikolov. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's put the debate back where it belongs and that's § 1, because we've heard all kinds of arguments here. In essence, I will take into account the proposal of the BSP by 23 MPs. I want to tell you that we from GERB will not support it.. You know, I will rather take regard in the part about VAT. I don't agree with your predictions. I disagree because they have failed as a whole for your entire budget. On what grounds will you convince me with naked talk that you will raise more 237 million in just 25 working days?! Moreover, if we do not take into account the VAT of the imports to be imported, the VAT for December will be paid in January by the 14th and then VAT will be paid. On what grounds do you make such predictions?! Even if it were to come true, I would very much like it if this forecast of yours were to come true, everything is very nice... will reduce the deficit. I see in your proposal, which is formal for me, signed by twenty-three, and I think you should have signed thirty-nine, because this is one of your point of reference. Colleagues developed it with their statements that, if you see, this excessive deficit will be our government's fault. That's what you're talking about, what you want to do with this proposal, otherwise everything else is bullshit. You are developing this and you are trying not to convince us. You cannot convince us because we are talking in numbers, we have reviewed the indicators and the forecasts. You are trying to convince Bulgarian citizens, but there is no way. In two or three weeks of this government's life, these things can't happen. That's why we won't support you. Two hundred and thirty-seven million more VAT in 25 working days I do not see what this proposal is justified. I will only mention the excise duty, because here the thesis has developed from several of your speakers that you are missing a small problem, a small detail in speaking. Nobody's talking about Neftohim when he was in repair and when he wasn't, we're talking about a drop in consumption. There's a very big difference. I think you understand it, but you're not comfortable saying it? 16% there is a decline in consumption, no one is talking about the productions of Neftohim? how much fuel has gone out. Fall! In other words, the road from the gas station of some 16% is lost, whether fewer people have used, that is, they purchased fuel, or simply this amount has disappeared during this period, that is, has not been accounted for. That's the whole point. You're missing it because you're not comfortable telling the truth, and that was about the appliances. Those are my motives. In the Budget Committee you were much shorter, and I suggest to you, fellow Members, who knows what you are talking about on this paragraph, do not try to dissolve the subject with things that are not related to it, you better get to the point. Otherwise, everything is very nice, but let it prevail a little more professionalism and numbers than populism, for example by the statements of § 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u77	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Alexandrov has signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u78	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will also retain this spirit of speech, namely by § 1, as there is also a person here, in my opinion, although the committee has been told that it is not the right place for him to be there, a good proposal. This proposal for us by the Attack Party or the increase in pensioners' income, we have always called for it. I'll tell you why it's good. At the moment, we are in a situation where we are in over-deficit and deflation conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u79	There's no such proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u80	There is a proposal that has been made by colleagues from the ABB, which can be rephrased as a transfer, that is, if it is mentioned as a transfer from the central budget to the budget of the DEA, it can now be done with an update and therefore for the increase in the income of pensioners. This should at least give us a very broad topic of reflection, because in the context of an excessive deficit and a deflation by October, which you are currently aiming at, is to keep both of us at the end of the year, and keep our fingers crossed December months to eventually increase inflation so we are not in deflation. The economic question is also very controversial: which is worse? Inflation or deflation? However, if we want to get out of the deflation spiral entirely or from discussing here how the consumption of fuels has been reduced, the consumption of fuels is not really just for cars, it also includes production activities, and breadmaking is also used in other things. This, in turn, can be seen as a loss of consumer confidence in the economic processes of the state, thus leading to a decline in consumption. However, our goal must be to stimulate this consumption, and in order to stimulate consumption, we must draw up the best possible proposals and laws for this to happen. How can this happen, and why will we support this proposal? I've said it in this room before and everywhere, that the pensioner, for one reason or another, may be called the perfect economic unit. Everything that our relatives, friends, relatives who are already in retirement age, receive as income, is allocated respectively as a time spent payment of the bills, buying the main food products, and in very much now at the upcoming holidays, giving money to grandchildren and so on. This, in turn, also stimulates consumption itself. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] Otherwise we will continue to read some articles of the kind that a pensioner paid 123 BGN. An electric bill and he has 36 levs left to make it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u81	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u82	Thank you, Madam President. All the colleagues who spoke before me have started by returning the debate to § 1 and yet we were going to throw accusations and, if possible, dismiss the guilt of ourselves, I mean the colleagues on the left. I really want to get this debate back to art. 1 and as I hope that we have exhausted the speeches and will proceed to the vote, but I would like to draw your attention to the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly who are subject to the vote. First of all, it was about incomes -- 337 million more revenue. I firmly believe that this is a wrong and incorrect proposal, that its place is not now and we should not accept it. There's been a lot of talk about what the revenues are, what they might be, and I'll say in addition to that just two more numbers. As of October, the revenues of the consolidated fiscal programme were 253 million more than the same period. 2013 and the 2014 budget provides for more than 2 billion revenue. The difference of a billion 747 million cannot, ladies and gentlemen, come out of nowhere. For this reason, it is funny to say that in the remaining two months and no longer two months, such a difference can be made up. [[Heckling]] There's been talk of other numbers here, but that's what's on the budget, and that's what's been done by October 30th. If we go to tax revenues, we will see that by October 30th, tax revenues are overrun only compared to the same period last year by 3.7%. That's great, you'll say, except in the budget, they're scheduled to grow at 8.2. There's no way this difference is gonna catch up in two months. And another figure: VAT as one of the most important revenue sources in the total revenue of the budget. Compared to October 2013, we have an increase in VAT revenue of 113.7 million with a planned growth of over 800 million. It is out of the question, ladies and gentlemen, to make up for the two months. Moreover, taking into account even what the negotiators said that there will be an increase in consumption around the Christmas and New Year holidays, that the effect of the reverse charge will work and if it happens in December, its effect will be taken into account on a cash basis in January. I call on you not to vote on this proposal. For me, it is absolutely unfounded and populist to increase revenue. In terms of expenses. The BSP colleagues offer an increase in costs by 37 million, 20 million of which for the Fund of Agriculture. I must tell you that these 20 million, which they include in the expenditure, concern VAT under the Rural Development Programme of the municipalities which are beneficiaries of this programme. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to bet that money here. They are laid down in point 10th of the project, which recorded 77 million precisely for operational programmes and no one can tell how much will be actually accounted for under these programmes and how much of this VAT will possibly need to be paid by the end of the year. Your proposal to increase the 20 million of the Fund is not correct, it does not affect in any way the farmers or the vegetable producers, because they are given 60 million plus 10 million for the blue language. The next thing you're proposing is 13 million for the Ministry of Education and Science, and so is the ABB's proposal. It concerns the payment of minimum wages to non-pedagogical staff. Ms. Ninova said she believes in the CST, only I believe the estimates of the government and the Ministry of Finance, which say that this is the one that requires no more than 6 million. lv. and these 6 million were provided as early as in Budget 2014, where the cost standard was increased by 1.3 and had $20 million for this, and the caretaker government by its decree increased the cost standard further by 0.8 and gave another 4 million. BGN, which is why these funds do not need to be given here at all. Please do not support BSP's proposals, either the ABB's and the revenue and their expenditure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u83	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which the committee does not support. Vote 157 MPs: 53, against 61, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. We vote. They voted 170 MPs: 46 against 85, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rositsa Yanakieva and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 178 MPs: 47, against 62, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 1. They voted 178 MPs: 114, against 32, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u84	Thank you. I ask for a re-voting procedure, my colleague Bozhinov failed to vote despite his wishes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u85	Maybe he didn't want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u86	No, he didn't. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u87	It's a rethink mode. They voted 178 MPs: 111, against 38, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, the patriotic Bulgarian Anka Nikolova Hikimova-Kolakova will donate today in the holiday, the flag of the Bulgarian rebels from the Ilinden-Preobrasian uprising in Enice Vardar. The donor has chosen this to happen in the National Assembly as one of the symbols of the modern Bulgarian state. The priceless national relic, which is protected by Ms. Hikimova's family for 111 years, will be awarded in a few minutes, at 11.02 pm at the Club of the National Representative. It will be handed over to the National Military History Museum. I invite all MPs to attend the event. Rest till 11:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u88	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Mrs. Yordanova, please continue with the committee's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u89	Paragraph 2. Proposal of the National Representative Mikov, Yanaki Stoilov, Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Turnovalyski, Zhelyo Boychev, Georgi Gokov, Stoyan Mirchev, Krasimir Yankov, Atanas Merdjanov, Atanas Zafirov, Dobrin Danev, Chavdar Georgiev, Angel Naydenov, Filip Popov, Tasko Ermenkov, Maya Manolova, Emil Raynov, Dimitar Dubov, Georgi Svilenski, Dragomir Stoinev, Christian Vigenin, Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova, Mariana Boyadjieva: In § 2, the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied', "supplied', "supplied', "supplied', "supplied', "supplied', "supplied' and The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u90	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It was nice for the colleagues on the left to defend their proposal. Because we have commented on it in the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance and because it is done without any motives, I would like to state a position of the Group of the Political Party GERB that we will not support this proposal. First of all, not just because there's no motive. It violates the proposed deficit increase and provides a reliable buffer for liquidity support. In addition, you all know that part of this loan is to be able to lend this money to the Fund for guaranteeing citizens' claims. So any kind of proposals made in this sense will undermine the foundations of this fund. That's why our decision of the group is like this. Even more so, I would love to hear some motives from my colleagues at BSP. I hope they offer something meaningful and real, but much of this loan, we all know what it is intended for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u92	- What's the line? There aren't any. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as they say, I look and do not believe my eyes. I have been looking at the update of Oresharski's office since June and what I see there is an update required at this point, submitted by Oresharski's office, which then amounted to 3.2 billion. lv. The number that was written there was 21.2. Now the gentlemen on the left propose that this number be 19.3, that is to say that the amount is reduced by more than a billion of what they wanted in June, while offering no motive. At the same time, we all know these funds from this loan, for what they will go, they are needed, once to cover the budget deficit, a second time in order to support the Bank Deposits Fund in order to be able to pay the money to protected small and medium-sized depositors. And I ask myself: after all, BSP is asking for this reduction, which is purely populist to me, since in June they wanted a sum that is much greater than the current one, on the other hand, what they now want, how do we understand it? That they want small and medium-sized investors to pay nothing, or that the budget deficit shouldn't be financed? Somehow things just don't correspond at all, and for me this remains an absolutely populist proposal of the type "Company," let's give! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u94	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u95	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There's nothing populist about our proposal. If you read our proposals in relation to § 8, you will find out where we propose to fill the shortage of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. So don't kid yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u96	Was that a line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u97	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u98	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Georgiev, I have looked at him yes, I have seen your proposal. I've seen that you're proposing that funding be done in a way that can't be done. The proposal that you wrote there is virtually contrary to European legislation and will not be allowed. In my opinion, too, with a clear mind, since I cannot assume that you do not know European law, it is written there, however, again, to play maybe populists, I do not know for what purpose it is written, but so you have done. So I pay attention to you again, from this update in June, when it was asked then.. in the middle of the year, you are currently offering nearly 2 billion less to sign up as an opportunity for a loan. Recalling also that at the time, in the middle of the year, you had proposed in this same update and the Public Finance Act to be accidentally changed and to allow a deficit of more than 2%, my puzzle is sorted out personally and my picture is sorted out and it is clear to me that by the middle of the year the deficit was going over 2 billion and that even then the funds had been spent long ago. So let's not kid ourselves. As colleagues have said earlier here, we are obviously expected to simply sign the bill and somehow arrange for the state to continue functioning in the remaining days until the end of the year. Please, let us be more serious, more correct and not make impossible proposals under the assumption that they are very nice. Yes, they may be very nice, but when they are unfulfilled and contrary to European law, obviously there is no way for the National Assembly to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u100	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I would not take the floor on this point, on this BSP proposal, because there is no real protection from the BSP at the moment of their proposal, but because there is a similar bill, the debate will not be exhausted now and today, but it is important that BSP colleagues hear all the arguments and seriously consider whether they need this debate once again under the bill they have tabled to say what it is about. The colleagues from BSP say to be taken, to provide for a smaller loan in the update of the budget at the expense of money to be taken from the deposit of the Bulgarian National Bank. I repeat, BSP colleagues want to take a smaller loan from the Bulgarian National Bank explained this to the Budget Commission because it was not clear, but they actually want to take from the deposit of the Bulgarian National Bank. They have seen, as I have looked at the statistics, which the BNB publishes regularly that there is currently 5 billion there. The Commission therefore concludes The BSP has seen a large amount and has decided that this is the approach to providing money to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. However, they probably missed or at least part of them that 2 billion. 430 million of this money is investment gold, which cannot be used for this purpose; another 1 billion. 407 million are special drawing rights that can only be used after an agreement with the Fund, you know very well, most of them. Therefore, the real cash, the high liquidity money there is 1 billion. 482 million, of which 400 million. lv. are a sort of over-reservation and, honourable Members of the BSP, remains about 1 billion, which according to the rules of the Currency Board must serve as a creditor of last instance. This is a function of the Bulgarian National Bank according to the rules of the Board. That is, there is virtually no money for your ideas in the so-called "Deposit" of the "Bankovo" management. And besides that there is no money, even if there was, I would never recommend such a measure because it contradicts the ideas of stability of the Currency Board. More than that, I'll introduce you to. If you care about European legislation, I'll tell you that. If it doesn't matter, of course, you'll say it doesn't matter to you, we'll move on. However, if the European rules matter to BSP, I recommend that you read art. 123, § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which says the following: It establishes a ban on monetary financing by the European Central Bank and the national central banks in favour of institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the European Union, central authorities, regional, local or other public authorities, other bodies governed by public law, notice, as is in practice the Fund for the Guarantee of Securities,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The direct purchase by the ECB or the national central banks of debt instruments by those public undertakings shall also be prohibited. That is to say, there is an explicit European rule that prohibits such money from the Deposits of the Government from being transferred to the Deposit Guarantee Fund either as a loan or in any other function or role. There is therefore an explicit European ban. On the other hand, I told you it contradicts the logic of the Currency Board. Finally, in the spirit of constructiveness, I would recommend what I have also said to the Budget Committee, the following decision. The sensible solution is this: it is not for the State not to lend the Fund. If this is not done, the depositors will not receive their money in December and we will be witnessing a very unpleasant situation with failed Bulgarian citizens, which I am convinced that no one in parliament, at least BSP colleagues want to see so I suppose, I may not be right, but I hope I am right. That is, the decision is to give a loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, and at the beginning of next year to give a state guarantee to the same Fund and in a favourable economic situation the Fund to take a loan and notice, colleagues, to return to the Bulgarian budget, to the Bulgarian state this loan. This is the logical option in which the interest of the State is as protected as possible and risks with public finances are not allowed. I call on you, fellow Members of the BSP, listening to all these arguments, if you are interested in the rule of the European Union, if it matters to you, answer how this measure corresponds to § 1 of art. 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union so that we can continue the discussion further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u102	- What's the line? Mr. Georgiev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, of course we have complied with art. 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union! You are taking on an interpreting way some dubious ban that the Fund was a state institution, with a state budget and so on. It's in your head like thinking. The Fund is not a state institution. The Fund is a deposit guarantee scheme that is required under European law and the obligation of the State is to provide deposits in banks and to oblige banks to participate in such a scheme, it and a fund, because this can also have a number of other forms that each country decides on its own. Dear colleagues, in fact guaranteeing deposits is the first obligation of the banks themselves. You don't want to attract resources from there, because you will reduce the bank's profit that is your problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u104	That was a first line. Second line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u105	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member, when we talk about Bulgaria's banking system and financial security, we must make every effort not to mix economics and politics. That's why our proposal is rational. It proposes not to burden the Bulgarian state by taking new government debt, but to use the currency reserves of the Republic of Bulgaria, which repeatedly exceed the obligations under the Monetary Council. I would like to explicitly say the following: 30 billion. 473 million is the reserves in "Emizionno" including 5 billion. 211 million in the Bank's Management Department, transferred to management and carrying, albeit minimum interest rates, in the Management Board. We're offering out of this 30 billion. 473 million to use this around 1.5 billion. BGN, in order not to burden the Bulgarian state with new debts, not to burden the budget for next year, when you will have to, colleagues, the interest on the service of this debt to include them in the budget expenditure. There is nothing unnatural about this economists, lawyers, experts to sit down and see what is most rational for the Bulgarian state. We argue that since the Bulgarian state has such a large reserve, which is not BNB's, it is not the government's and it is not the parliament's, but it is the Bulgarian citizens', we want to use this minimum for reserve, cheap resource, instead of drawing government debt at several times higher interest rates. This 1.5 billion does not in any way pose a threat to the Money Council. This is the last thing anyone would do at the moment, as the ratio, as you can see, is huge: over 30 billion to 1.5 billion. Thus, if this corresponds to the Bulgarian Constitution and European law and with legal changes we can provide this cheaper funding due to the emergency situation, there is nothing wrong with it. Because, honourable Members, why else is the reserve of the Republic of Bulgaria on this account.. to take a color photograph with 30 billion or 300 billion?! Any country in the world, when there is a reserve, can use it under certain conditions. We're just offering a rational option to think about. If it is acceptable legal and is consistent with European and Bulgarian law, why not use it?! If it's not acceptable, we won't use it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u106	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u107	I propose, honourable Members, as a response to the lines of colleagues Gechev and Georgiev, that we read the provisions of art. Paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It establishes a prohibition on monetary financing by the ECB and the national central banks in favour of institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the European Union, central authorities, regional, local or other public authorities. Now listen carefully: other bodies governed by public law or public undertakings of the Member States. Doesn't that sound like other public law-regulated bodies to you, honourable Members, like the Deposit Guarantee Fund? Is that another body governed by public law? And since this dispute has been going on with BSP for some time, I am addressing Mr. Dimitar Kostov and you, Madam President, to invite a representative of BNB with a clear question which one of us is right. This argument is good to be closed once and for all. And is there a Bulgarian National Bank position on this topic? So please contact him with an insistent invitation for a position by the Bulgarian National Bank on this issue. Because, fellow Members of the BSP, you are not simply violating the principles of the Currency Board, you are violating the fundamental principle of functioning of the financial system of the European Union, which leads to risks for the financial stability of Bulgaria. We in the Reformation Block fear for you, tomorrow in the European press, that there will be a message that an important party from the Bulgarian Parliament, such as BSP, is questioning the functioning of the Currency Board or threatening it to some extent, which would be extremely disturbing. In order to save ourselves all this, I suggest that we listen to the impartial opinion of the Bulgarian National Bank, which I hope will be specific................... if such funding meets the European rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u108	In order to be able to comply with your proposal, Mr. Dimitrov, there will have to be another procedural proposal on your part to break the debate. Otherwise, there's no way this thing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u109	He may also take part in the deliberations. It's happened before.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u110	If there's a wish. Is there a wish? Okay, you're making it very easy for me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bulgarian National Bank has expressed its opinion on this proposal. It was submitted by letter to the President of the Forty-third National Assembly and to the President of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria. In this opinion we have said that for us this is a violation of art. 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Separately, it constitutes a violation of the principles on the basis of which the Currency Council in the country operates. In practice, use of funds is offered by the State to cover the price differences from the country's gold reserve and to cover potential losses from price differences in securities in which the Central Bank is obliged to invest the currency reserve. Separately, it is also stated in the law itself that if these reserves are not sufficient for those purposes for which they are intended, the State budget should fill in the deficit. So in this case it is not about the use of free reserves, but about the change of philosophy, which is embedded in Bulgarian legislation. As to whether the proposal corresponds to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular to the article in question. 123, the opinion of the European Central Bank has already been prepared, because according to art. 127, para. Art. 4 and art. 282, para. 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Central Bank shall be empowered to express an opinion on these issues, in particular the conformity of one or other legislative proposal or decision with that Article. 123. And that statement states that they see that there is a violation of art. 123. This position at the moment, of course, is like a project. By the end of the week, it will also be uploaded to the website of the European Central Bank. At present, no national central bank has objected to this opinion, i.e. that is the ECB's opinion on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u112	Thank you. The debate continues. Do other MPs want to participate in it? Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! I use the possibility of further clarification and a few words that are very important. First, again with regard to the reserve. Absolutely right, said the Governor of BNB Mr. Kostov that the Law provides that if there is no money in the reserve for the Currency Council under some exceptional circumstances, which even I cannot imagine at the moment, then the budget is obliged to provide funds. Isn't that right? That is, if this billion and a half is such a huge part of 30 billion and we have a guarantee of the Monetary Council over 140%, immediately the Bulgarian government, whatever it is, as it reacts to guaranteeing the deposits, will also react to supplementing the currency reserve if necessary. The economic conclusion that a billion and a half do not pose absolutely no threat as a single act in this by chance situation and in the case of a reserve of Bulgaria, I think that is not subject to discussion here. I asked at the beginning that we should not politicize and include different parties, because, if we must be precise, in any event, the truth is that the proposal for a Monetary Council came from the International Monetary Fund and we, with Mr. Kostov and our team and a representative of the Central Bank, prepared it and brought it to this Parliament Budget 1997 in Deutsche Marks and dollars under the Monetary Council Act. And I won't politicize, but then a famous right-wing leader said that if we dare introduce the Monetary Council, we will be sent to prison. Isn't that right, Mr. Kostov? However, we are not in prison and the Monetary Council brings stability to Bulgaria for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u114	Any lines to Mr. Gechev? Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u115	So, Madam President, Mr. Gechev, ladies and gentlemen! Listening to your statement on how much the currency board prices in Bulgaria and its principles, I think you should withdraw your proposal and also the bill that you have tabled in the same sense. If you really believe that the Currency Board is an achievement and a very important reform for Bulgaria, such as the thesis, for example, we reformers have always defended, your proposal should be withdrawn. By the way, thank you for the honest and expert position that the representative of BNB presented to you. But keep in mind the following: if you continue to persevere, given that there is a clear negative opinion of the European Central Bank, it is already becoming dangerous for the Bulgarian financial stability and the Currency Board. Therefore, by leaving the politicisation aside, I call on you to stop the debate on this subject and especially on the submitted bill, to show flexibility and to accept what I have repeatedly offered you, namely a State guarantee for the Deposit Guarantee Fund and, if possible, at good interest rates, the Fund to borrow itself and repay the loan it has received from the State. And by the way, we must insist that the loan, which will be given by the State of the Fund, not just cover interest payments, but have a small allowance above the interest that the State must pay to make it clear that the budget is not damaged by this financial operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u116	Second line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gechev, I will help you by telling you what an apocalyptic situation and a crisis situation is. This is a situation that BSP had created 1996 with hyperinflation, with a currency reserve of 400 million. The dollar and infinity refinancing from the central bank of the government, which led to an even greater hyperinflation. Now this is a critical, apocalyptic situation. However, the Currency Board Act, even in such a situation, does not allow the Central Bank to refinance public structures at the moment, as is undoubtedly the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And here the question is not whether it is 500 million, 1 billion or 50 billion, here the question is a principle.. simply cannot and the Law does not allow the central bank to refinance a public institution. You have also heard this very clearly in what the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has read, this has also been confirmed by the representative of BNB. So I very much hope that you will stop speculating on this subject. Just say: yes, in this case this is obviously a non-working proposal, we will withdraw it and the debate may be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u118	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Third line? A hole, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! After all, perhaps we should also say the following: yes, legal changes must be made so that this cheaper resource can be used if the Bulgarian state, parliament, decides. We have proposed such a bill, with small changes, which gives such an opportunity, which if we decide, we will use.... if we decide, we will not use it. But I would like to object to an interesting trend: you see, the European Central Bank has given an opinion, the UN has given an opinion, the International Monetary Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, we are an independent state! Right, the European Central Bank gives an opinion, but it will not give a decision to the Bulgarians whether and how to use their own funds! Because, pay attention, we Bulgarians do not want money from the European Central Bank, like Greece, Spain and other countries, where the European Central Bank very easily poured hundreds of billions of euros! Isn't that right? And we Bulgarians can't account for which resource is cheaper. In conclusion, I say again: I think that, in general, the discussion remained within the framework of the economic conversation. We offer cheaper resources, lower costs for the Bulgarian state to finance the Guarantee Fund. As our lawyer colleague said, a scheme to guarantee the guaranteed deposits of citizens and companies. Let's move on to the vote. If we find support, we will provide opportunities for cheaper funding to complement the Guarantee Fund. If it is not accepted and the majority necessarily wants us to go to additional government debt, it is ultimately the right of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Will other MPs participate in the debate? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debates are closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs for editing in § 2 "The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 127 MPs: 24, against 80, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 2. Vote 126 MPs: 94, against 22, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u121	According to § 3 the proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 3, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1 the number "8.9' is replaced by the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u122	Debates are open. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support, for the revision of § 3. They voted 130 MPs: 26, against 85, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 3. Vote 127 MPs: 95, against 22, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u123	According to § 4 "A proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 4 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u124	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs for the removal of § 4 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 22, against 84, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on § 4 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 95, against 25, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u125	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u126	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 97, against 22, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u127	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u128	Ann Block, we vote on the Commission's support for the name of the division and § 6. Vote 127 MPs: 104 against 6, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u129	Proposal by the National Representative Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u130	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 129 MPs: 27, against 85, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 7 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 95, against 22, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u131	Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs under § 8: The following changes shall be made in § 8: (a) A new item shall be created. 3 containing the following content: "3." Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 is amended as follows: Art. 16. (1) Each bank shall make an annual premium contribution to the fund equal to 0,5 per cent of the total amount of the deposit base for the previous year, determined on an average daily basis. If the fund is underfunded, the annual premium contribution may be increased by a decision of the management board of the fund to 2 per cent of the total amount of the deposit base for up to 3 years. (b) t. 3 becomes t. 4 by acquiring the following content: "4." Art. 18 is amended as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Art. 18. (1) If the fund's funds are not sufficient to cover its obligations under this law, the management board of the fund shall, within three days of the establishment of the deficit, adopt a decision to cover it by increasing the annual premium contribution for up to 3 years and oblige the banks to transfer upfront annual premium contributions within a specified period and an increased amount, taking the last day of the preceding month as a basis. (2) If and after the application of the measure under para. 1 there is a shortage of funds, the same at the request of the Fund is covered by BNB within ten days. The BNB provides a loan to the Fund in the amount of the additional shortfall, with interest equal to the underlying interest rate in force. The loan is provided by the management funds of the Bank. (3) Loan from banks or other persons may also be used in order to complete the fund's funds under conditions and in order laid down by the management board of the fund. (4) The advance amounts paid under para. 1 shall be deducted from the annual premium contributions due by banks for subsequent years and the overpaid shall be subject to return within the period referred to in Article 1. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 5. (5) The loans used by the Fund may be secured by assets of the Fund, including future claims of the Fund to the banks for annual premium contributions. In case of use of credit under para. 2 The fund must provide collateral. (c) point 4 etc. 5 becomes respectively t. 5 and so on. 6; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov and Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Thank you. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u132	The discussion is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the proposed version of § 8? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! What we are proposing is fully in line with European legislation, and here I would like to explain what European legislation provides for in terms of guaranteeing deposits in banks. European legislation obliges banks to participate in deposit guarantee schemes, as the country concerned has determined by its national legislation. In European legislation, the responsibility for guaranteeing deposits is clearly defined as being of the banks themselves. Banks must create or participate in a mechanism rather than guarantee the deposits of their depositories. And what we offer you is in full compliance with this principle, and we say with a clearer expression: banks, in case of shortage of the Fund, are obliged to fill the Fund first, second, if there is an additional shortage, should use the funds in BNB, explained Prof. Gechev why and that this will cost cheaper, and already finally, if there are no other options, the Fund itself must fill its shortage by other persons. It is possible, in this case, at the time and at the expense of the central budget. So I suggest we don't get into any unnecessary discussions. What we are proposing is a working mechanism fully consistent with European legislation, the spirit of European legislation and ensuring an active involvement of the banks themselves in the deposit guarantee process, as European norms require. Thank you. Support this text!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u134	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? There aren't any. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in § 8? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. We vote. They voted 113 MPs: 22, against 70, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 8. They voted 115 MPs: 85, against 17, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u135	According to § 9 the proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Radan Kanev, Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova, Diana Yordanova, Krasimir Velchev, Dimitar Glauchev, Emil Dimitrov, Borislav Velikov, Martin Dimitrov and Dimitar Tanev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: The following changes shall be made in § 9: (a) point 1 (b) point 2 shall become the text of § 9 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 9 and propose the following wording: ..................................................... The Bankruptcy Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 sentence first is finally added except in the cases under para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In addition to the part which each of them would have received in the distribution of the cashed assets, any forfeiture, regardless of when the two counter liabilities incurred by a creditor or by the bank were incurred: 1. after the start date of insolvency; 2. after the date of placing the bank under special supervision under the conditions and under the order of Chapter 11, Section VIII of the Law on Credit Institutions, including a measure imposed under art. 116, para. 2, p. 2 of the same law, if that date precedes the date referred to in paragraph 2. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (c) the creation of para. 6: In the cases referred to in para. 5 the operation of the intercept shall be postponed until the execution of the final allocation account under art. 104. In the case of sale of the bank as an undertaking, the intercept shall have effect after approval of the deal by the court under art. Reg. 91, para. 3. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 91, para. 1 all the words of the bank as an undertaking shall be replaced by the undertaking of the bank as a whole or parts. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 1 after the words of the other bank....the bank is added....or
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u136	Statements? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleagues on the right, who made the proposal, for it you really win congratulations in quotes. Do you realize what norm and what you want us to adopt with the proposal to amend the Paragraph 9 texts?! You're going to introduce such unimaginable chaos into the right order that doesn't fit my mind. You are introducing some relative, subjective invalidity with a delaying effect. Why are you doing this?! He's got a legal order. Even if some cesion deals have been concluded, even if there is an exercise of intercept, it has already produced its action. How are you going to put all this back with a reverse date, rearrange all of these terms, and relatively maybe................ maybe............................................................................... Do you realize what regulation you want us to introduce and why, in relation to this bank, you want to introduce it?! Do you have any reasonable explanation for this? I ask you to reconsider what you are proposing, and by no means do we come to such paradoxical regulations. We're going to create such a bad precedent that I don't know how we're going to be able to correct in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u138	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u139	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Georgiev, there is nothing precedent in our proposal, and I will explain why this is so. Also in the current version of the article, the way it works. 59, invalidity is envisaged in respect of the intercepts carried out after the declared date of insolvency. We offer nothing but a precision of this point, stating that it should take into account the earlier of the two moments between the date of insolvency and the time of the imposition of the special measure, i.e. as materially legal content, the norm is as it is. Only in view of the many uncertainties in the practice of the regulatory authority, the future ambiguity in relation to the insolvency court, respectively the date of insolvency announced by it, and in order to ensure the mass of insolvency, the distribution of groups between creditors, we have therefore clarified that the date of the measure should be taken into account. With regard to the special merchant bank, this is an important moment. Here we must fully comply with the specifics of both the entity and the Bankruptcy Act. I think you understand him very well as a lawyer and as a professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u141	Dear President, dear Mr. Georgiev! Yesterday this text was supported with full consensus at the meeting of the Budget Committee, which means that the representatives of the BSP left Bulgaria. First of all, I would like to ask you: from yesterday until today, what happened to yesterday this text to be acceptable with full consensus, including for your representatives, and today to be a legal error? So what happened from yesterday to today for such a radical change in the opinion of BSP left Bulgaria? This Parliament has seen all sorts of demagogy, but it usually takes more than one day to change a party in such an important position. Please explain to me: how is it that your representatives voted yesterday for.... and today you think this text is very problematic? And second of all, I have never had any doubts about your expertise, I would like to ask: why didn't your Oresharski cabinet then adopt these texts? I have no doubt that you had already predicted that there would be hundreds of millions of left-wing jobs and intercepts. I have no doubt that you knew that at the time. It was the most normal and the most correct time to adopt these provisions. Why didn't you? Please explain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u142	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u143	Thank you, Madam President. The questions of Mr. Dimitrov are completely irrelevant and I have no intention of dealing with them. The essence of this question is legal. What my colleague Kirilov said is not true. You are rearranging already concluded transactions with legal effect on them, with the effect of these transactions being realised. How are we going to get back into the patrimony of banks' assets that have already been intercepted and extinguished, how are we going to distribute this intercept and repayment to the accounts of their depositors? You have to explain all this, or there'll be a lot of chaos. Let's ask ourselves: why do you really want this? Who are you protecting? In my opinion, there is a hypothesis that should sound synthesized in the following form of money to the taxpayer you want to reassign the bank's assets for the benefit of certain entities you have designated. That's what you want! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u144	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mr. Dimitrov. [[Reply.]] To have a left-right Mr. Dimitrov, then you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u145	Madam President, as you said, these walls have heard all sorts of things, but they had never heard that yesterday the BSP voted for this text, and today the text is unacceptable. I, Mr. Georgiev, congratulate you as a lawyer for this statement. It will be remembered by this Parliament and is a wonderful practice for Bulgarian political life. But what's more important? I wouldn't take the floor, but yesterday, the Budget Committee was voted absolutely unanimously. It was right and I would not say that if we were not provoked in this way by BSP colleagues at the end of the term of office Oresharski, in which there were many leading and quality lawyers, to foresee this situation and to limit the assignments and intercepts in defence of the national interest. It's not done. Personally, I don't think it was done on purpose. Now there is a way for the interest of the Deposit Guarantee Fund to be protected, because after the intercepts it is obtained so that with the best loans this is the logic In other words, the unsettled deposits were paid before the guaranteed deposits. That's what happened to the intercepts. Unsecured deposits must have been paid before the guaranteed ones. After all, this is financial, economic logic. That's it. [[Reply of MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] I hoped that this text would be adopted by consensus in the National Assembly for the following reason. We should all want as much money as possible to go to the Deposit Guarantee Fund as a prerequisite to repay and the loan that the State gives to the Fund. So for this reason, it was logical that, as yesterday, the Budget Committee, when we were all behind this text, and today, one day later, nothing had changed, that no one had called us, that no one had any influence on us, and as yesterday we had an absolute consensus, that we continue today in the same way in defence of the state interest. Nothing more, nothing less! What's the state's interest? It is very clear in the Fund to come the most money, which means the best loans to stay at the bankruptcy table there is their place so that the creditors can subsequently receive the same percentage. This is the relative reality, honourable Members, the equal fair satisfaction of creditors, as the maximum part of the money to remain in the Deposit Guarantee Fund, so that the loan that the State has given can be repaid at least partially within the maximum time limit and that the contributions that the Fund receives on an annual basis return the other part of the loan that the State has given so that the national public interest is protected. This is the idea of this proposal, and I am surprised that there are fellow MPs who fiercely question it, although they themselves, when they should have, did not work. They say: "We didn't take the right measures then, and now we will prevent you from taking them, so that ultimately the Deposit Guarantee Fund will be damaged. " I'm sorry, but a man who thinks of public interest can't support that logic.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u146	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u147	I was tempted by Mr. Dimitrov and I took the liberty of making a line and asking him not to summarize the behavior of the representatives of the BSP. I suppose you missed, Mr. Dimitrov, but the BSP is a democratic party and its representatives make their own decisions. Colleagues supported this decision yesterday in the Budget Commission. They will support him today in the Chamber. I will also support this proposal in this House. Just my colleague Georgiev has a number of questions for the importers, because you know that we are dealing with a very specific matter. For the first time, our country is in this kind of situation, and the Bankruptcy Act does not address all the issues that we have been faced with, and we are currently facing this situation. There were a number of questions that we wanted, in particular, clarification as importers, ultimately, how to proceed from here on. It is clear who will declare these deals and these intercepts invalid. We are the rule of law. I would ask you to practice less on BSP in your speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u148	Second line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, to explain exactly what you want to do, I will read you a few words from para. 5 which you introduce: "Unactually with regard to the creditors is bankruptcy... (and so on)... and any claims. In para. 6 however, you say: When selling the bank as an enterprise, the seizure has an effect. So which one is it? Explain to me, please! Unless you know in advance who will take the enterprise of the bank as a whole, and you do not intend exactly that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u150	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u151	On the contrary, Mr. Boychev. I did you a favor to clarify that this is Mr. Georgiev's personal position and not BSP's. I therefore call on all the people who are thinking about the public interest and the Fund for Guarantee of Interests to at least make every possible action so that as much money can go into it to support these texts. As for the specific remarks, I would ask Mr. Georgiev: why hasn't he tabled between first and second readings and now he hasn't proposed editing? He also does not answer the question why, when he himself was in power, as a person with serious legal expertise, he has not yet proposed such texts, so that Parliament should not now have a complex situation to resolve important issues concerning the Bulgarian society. As for the relative reality of the intercepts, the logic is that it is only at the end that when the procedure has passed and when it is seen how collected it will then be decided by the same criterion that the creditors of the same order will receive equal compensation. That's what this is about. That's logic. If you have a better proposal, I am convinced that the lawyers in this Parliament would support you, but you don't. You say you don't like this, but you don't offer anything else that you actually say you don't want this proposal to be accepted. I think we could have saved ourselves this debate to both us and the Bulgarian Parliament, and by defending the public interest, we could have just supported these texts. Your will!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u152	Mr. Tasco Ermenkov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u153	Madam President, honourable Members! I wouldn't exactly like to start with that, but I'm just being provoked. When populism is pouring on the right, it is already abnormal in Bulgarian political life. I'm telling you this very seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u154	It's usually on the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u155	Let's talk expertly anyway. What does the Bank's bankruptcy table have to do with the guaranteed deposits and the Guaranteed Deposit Fund? Nothing. This has absolutely nothing to do with it! So don't confuse the two. Secondly, when a bank is placed in special supervision, in the normal legal world means that measures will be taken for its recovery. The recovery of a bank is one of the measures to reduce credit risk, and one of the measures to reduce credit risk is the disposals and intercepts. That's right! So I'm asking you professionally not to confuse one thing with another. I fully agree that some illegal actions are currently being carried out in relation to the fact that some of the deposits are being broken down into smaller deposits so that they can be guaranteed so that those with larger deposits can take all their money as guaranteed. Here I do not mind finding the relevant text and doing it, but when it comes to normal commercial practice, when it comes to something that does not affect the entire mass of bankruptcy, let us not enter into such things that will cause litigation tomorrow, court decisions, tomorrow will cause someone to pay for lost benefits. And that will be us taxpayers, because the bank, whoever it is, will be gone, and the budget will have to pay, because we have changed a law with a reverse date. If you want this law to be called the Law on KTB, call it the Law on KTB, but please the importers.. withdraw this proposal, review it once again so that we do not create precedents and more work of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. That was a statement. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wonder how creatively it can be presented, manipulatively, something that is, I would say, quite clearly. I was also surprised at the claims of colleague Georgiev, whom I highly appreciated as a colleague, and I was also surprised at Mr. Ermenkov's interpretation. It's nothing like that. It's not about reverse action, it's about future action. The law provides a legal option for the future trade union in a situation and only if the insolvency court declares the bank bankrupt. And I'm going to say again what I said: this norm, and now it has it, this rule, and now it has it. And colleague Chavdar Georgiev knows very well that in the general bankruptcy regime, the trade union can claim the invalidity of any transaction that does not meet market conditions, which damages the mass of insolvency or damages creditors or rearranges them. So whether it is on the basis of the special and special norm 59 or on the basis of the general possibility for the trade union to pursue indictments, this possibility exists legally. The inconclusiveness, Mr. Ermenkov, is highly restrictive because the company, the debtor, is in default, unable to fulfil its commercial obligations. That's why all this production says: the goal is to take a snapshot of assets and liabilities, so that there is no further typical of traders skipping, rearranging, rearranging. There is no way not to protect the Fund for guaranteeing claims if the effect of a set-off is recognised in respect of such obligations that will have to be borne by the Fund. I am surprised at Mr. Georgiev's interpretation, because he wondered why in the final account - and divided the two moments - it was both recognized and not acknowledged. Colleague Georgiev, in the hypothesis it is clearly written: invalid is next to the part that would damage the distribution bill, which would damage creditors. In the capture there may be a part that is real, and it may correspond to the allocation coefficient if it is 10%, 20%, 30% of the cashed property. For this part, the capture will be real, but it will not really be for the remainder, for the one who is already going into the deficit, in the absence, in the lack of property. I don't know, it's weird that we're trying to scare people with legal or pseudolegal arguments. People got scared enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u158	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Kirilov! Apparently, each one of us presents a thesis without looking at the law. I still claim that there is a contradiction in the law as you have given it. I am not talking about the hypothesis of the partial action of the.... it does not actually have such action. Each creditor as creditor of the bank will receive what is due to him from the bankruptcy table. That's what you're talking about. I'm talking about something else. First of all, you're rearranging a new regulation, and that's why you're confusing the right world, the right peace. How can people know before the date of the announcement of placing the bank under supervision that it will come to this, and that certain institutions and persons may have wanted this result to make the relevant concession transactions and intercepts before that date? They must be more than psychics, throwing beans! You are now procrastinating with a retroactive date at the date of placing the bank under special supervision an action which could then have been carried out at their discretion. Secondly, I'm telling you again the text is: When selling the bank as an enterprise, the capture has effect................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Five, will there be partial action? Explain this to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u160	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Georgiev! In terms of time action, I say again, you are an experienced lawyer. Tell me, in how many of the cases when the court declares the date of insolvency, is it bordered or close to the date of the request for bankruptcy? Of course, this date of insolvency is far in time. And it is an object, it is determined by the specialised expertise that the insolvency court awards. This is the task of property owners to see at what point the insolvency took place. And let me tell you, as he thinks of the information we receive about KTB, the date of CCB's insolvency could easily be December last year. But it should not be experimented with until the court has ruled, because the ruling of the court is more or less subsequent. Yes, the trade union is already operating with the court's appointment, but the trade union is the only one who can handle the cancellations in question. The date of default is defined and always in more than 95% of the cases is in a long, prior period compared to the decision to announce the insolvency. And since I will admit directly here, we suspected that the insolvency claimer of BNB would be distracted or suggest another date, I do not know if it is true what the media reported that the BNB announced a date of September 30th, which is why it is appropriate to determine the action at the time when for this special settlement trader there is evidence that it has stopped payments and immediately after that the regulator has taken the particular measure in question. The question remains open to me as a citizen and an audience: what was the BNB doing from the special measure to the next I say, from the media I know this date, September 30th what was it doing? What were the Quaestors doing? Why did we have to put Quaestors Guards instead of going in one of the two possible directions by law...................... or rescue or insolvency? Why did you have to dissolve the scissors of time to make a bunch of deals that you can then guess if they're real or not, to whom they're opposable and not... I'm sorry I didn't have time to answer for the cost of the enterprise.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there anyone who wishes to make statements under § 9? I won't. I'm closing the debate on § 9. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. First of all, we are voting on a proposal from MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 103 MPs: 17 against 65, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the wording of § 9 in the version of the committee. They voted 105 MPs: 97 against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u164	We vote. Vote 108 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u165	Proposal of the MPs Slavcho Atanasov and Christian Mitev. The proposal was withdrawn at the committee meeting. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov and Diana Yordanova for a new § 11. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 34, para. 2 after the words the legislation on their implementation shall be added.. as well as for violation of the Act on Independent Financial Audit................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. § 11. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u166	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for a new version of § 11 and § 11 by importer, supported by the Commission, which shall become § 12. We are voting on paragraphs 11 and 12 on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: 98, against 2, abstention 18. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE EMPLOYMENT AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT OF GENERAL INFRASTRUCTURE. Report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Yordanova, you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u167	Thank you, Madam President. First, I would like to make a procedural proposal for admission to Lazar Lazarov's Hall
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u168	We vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u169	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe At a meeting held on 25 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Ivanka Videnova Director of the Directorate of Water and sewerage in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which presented the bill. The draft is intended to extend the duration of the Loan Agreement from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2017, as the implementation of the construction works and the introduction of the sites into operation could not take place within the current deadline. The modification of the loan agreement will ensure the redistribution of the funds and the extension of the period for the implementation of the project, with the following construction works being carried out in its scope: the completion of the dams of the dams. "Plovdivtsi" and "Luda Yana" with water treatment plants for drinking water to them; rehabilitation of the dam "Studena" dam, the design and rehabilitation of the water treatment plant "Pernik" which purifies the water from the dam "Studena" dam, and only the design, without the implementation of the dam "Neykovtsi" dam, and the treatment plant for drinking water to it, leading to a reduction of the value of the project and the loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development respectively. In the so defined scope of the activities, the necessary financial resource for the implementation of the project is EUR 87 449 375. This leads to a reduction in the loan of 81 million. EUR to 70 million EUR and state co-financing of 20.2 million EUR to 17 449 375 euros. The funds for the three components of the project are allocated, taking into account the necessary resource in accordance with the extension period for the implementation of the activities, as well as the inclusion of the site of the Rehabilitation of the water treatment plant. After the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:........................ 14 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote the bill for ratification of the Amendment of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 402-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2014 "Thank you."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Would anyone like to present the bill on behalf of the importers? I don't see that desire. Debates are open. Are there any MPs who would like to share their opinion on this bill? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, submitted by the Council of Ministers. We vote. Vote 94 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u171	Thank you. I propose on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put the newly voted bill to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u172	There's no proposal back. I put to the vote Mrs. Yordanova's procedural proposal. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Second reading report, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u173	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure " between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank Recovery and development A single member. It ratifies the modification of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 1 February 2010 concluded by Exchange of Letters on 27 August and 3 October 2014......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u174	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the bill at second reading. They voted 99 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted and with this, at second reading and the corresponding ratification. Next item of the weekly programme: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATEFICTION AND CANALISATION OF THE CONSULTANTING AGREEMENT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE STRATEGY FOR WATER AND CANALISATION BETWEEN THE MINISTERITY OF REGULAR DEVELOPMENT AND THE BLEGOSTERITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT. Report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Yordanova is on duty today on a report from this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u175	Thank you, Madam President. At a meeting held on 25 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Ivanka Videnova, Director of the Directorate of Water and sewerage in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which presented the bill. The amendment of the agreement provides that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will benefit from the World Bank's expertise in order to further develop measures proposed in the Action Plan on the Water and Water Management Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2023. The implementation of these measures will help improve the sustainability of the industry by strengthening the institutional, legal and political framework. In addition, conditions will be created for the more efficient use of water resources and cost-covering by promoting a reasonable contribution of different water users to the reimbursement of water service costs. The implementation of the proposed measures will help reduce the risk of suspension of EU funds during the 2014-2020 programming period due to failure to act and non-compliance with deadlines for the fulfilment of the ex ante conditions for EU funds. After the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development and implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Strategy between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 402-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u176	On behalf of the importer, there is no desire to present the bill. The debates are open. The word has Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I think we should support this bill. I personally participated in the working group to prepare this strategy for the development of water supply and sewerage in our country. There are many useful things, of course, related to financing and rehabilitation of the water supply network, co-financing and the disposal of waste water for their purification, something that affects all of us. In this regard, and as mentioned by the rapporteur, in order to be able to fulfil the preconditions of the European Union for 2016, it will be useful to ratify this Amendment to the Agreement in order to be able to draw up the relevant action plans that are necessary for further implementation in the practice of this Strategy. Let's stick together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u178	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debates are closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put at first reading the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development and implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Strategy between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Vote 85 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Since there have been no proposals on the proposed bill, I propose on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put the newly adopted bill to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u180	I put the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 87 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u181	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development and implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Strategy between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. It ratifies the amendment of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development and implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Strategy between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 26 July 2012, signed on 23 June 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u182	There are no speeches. I'm putting the ratification under discussion at second reading. We vote. They voted 91 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Next item: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Mrs. Yordanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u183	Thank you, Madam President. At a meeting held on 25 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Lazar Lazarov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Railway Infrastructure Agency at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, who presented the bill. The purpose of the amendment of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the "Travel Infrastructure" Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is to extend the duration of the agreement until 30 June 2015. The extension of the deadline is imposed on two procedures for the award of public contracts, i.e.: the selection of a contractor to prepare an environmental assessment of the mid-term operational programme for the implementation of the Road Infrastructure Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria "2014-2020" and the selection of a contractor to study the needs of road users. The envisaged extension of the duration of the agreement will not lead to a change in its value. After the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote a Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 402-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u184	There will be no presentation on behalf of the importer. Statements? I won't. I put to the first vote the ratification bill just reported to you. Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u185	Thank you. Again on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose for a second vote the newly adopted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u186	We are voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 83 MPs: 81 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u187	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of Amendment 2 to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between Road Infrastructure Agency and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. Ratifying Amendment No 2 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 25 October 2012, signed on 22 October 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-26.u188	Statements? I won't. We vote! Vote 96 MPs: 94, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before closing the plenary session today, I remind you that tomorrow at 9:00 under the closed session, the hearing of the President of the State Agency will be held on issues which I announced earlier today, after which if proposals for the construction of the permanent parliamentary committees will be made by the end of the day, as point two of tomorrow's meeting, they will be voted accordingly. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
