ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Procedure, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday was held a meeting of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activities of the Forty-third National Assembly and the following decision was taken: The Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-second National Assembly became the Draft Rules for the Organization and Activities of the Forty-third National Assembly. By 5 November 2014, Wednesday, 18:00 the parliamentary groups and the MPs shall submit proposals for amendment and addition to the draft referred to in point 1 of the National Assembly's case-law to the President of the Temporary Commission. Citizens and organisations may make proposals to amend and supplement the project to the Temporary Commission within the time limit set out in point 2. The draft submitted proposals shall be published on the website of the Temporary Committee on the website of the National Assembly within one day after the expiry of the period referred to in point 2. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am doing a procedure to put to the vote the deadline for proposals for amendment and supplement to the Draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-third National Assembly. My fellow Members, I would like to do another procedure. Item 1 of today's agenda to be transmitted on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. You are essentially making two procedural proposals. The first, relating to the period within which the Members of the National Assembly may make proposals in the procedure for drafting the new Rules of Organization and Activity of the Forty-third National Assembly. I put to the vote your proposal for this deadline to be by 5 November 2014, 18:00 p.m. Please, voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: 189, against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the second procedural proposal for a direct broadcast of the debate on point one of our work today, and it is a discussion of: REPORT OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON BUDGET AND FINLAND ON THE REPORT OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK ON EVENTS AND PRESENT ACTIONS RELATED TO THE CORPORATE COMMERCIAL TRADE Vote 186 MPs: 184 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Boychev, you're signaling procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for the Minister of Finance to be called in on our upcoming agenda. Four hours The Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance is dealing with the report of the BNB not that clear answers were given to the questions that were raised, but there was certainly no representative of the Ministry of Finance. We are constantly witnessing some or other information that negotiations are being held with the state, that there are some suspicious investors who have submitted or have not submitted certain proposals. It seems to me that the People's Representation, the National Assembly, is the institution which should have information on this issue in connection with the debate today, and separately should the Minister of Finance provide information on the different hypotheses and options for the development of the situation in KTB and the impact it would have on the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u5	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Boychev's proposal. Vote 176 MPs: 166, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Siderov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u6	Madam President, I propose a re-voting of the first vote with which you put this item on today's agenda, because I am definitely not convinced that this is the most important point of the Bulgarian society. I watched carefully, I don't know how many of the colleagues here have watched, but I followed the entire meeting of the Budget Committee and I was convinced that it was an extremely ridiculous waste of time Now you want all this, all this ambiguity and confusion to bring it into the Chamber and perhaps to lose here five hours today and thus to start the forty-third National Assembly with an extremely ridiculous waste of time, because I think we have heard other requests at the opening of this House for a highly responsible job in the name of the people, and we are actually starting to deal with saving a bank that is not interested, I assure you, more than 200 people in the country. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Yeah, come on, 205. I'm sorry, Mr. Rashidov, I missed you. [[Reply from the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov. Noise and lines by GERB.]] That's why I suggest it's reworded. We have very valuable suggestions that stand in your drawer, submitted by "Attack". 43 in number. Whatever you grab by the ears will be welcome, but I suggest you start with the moratorium on the price of electricity to convince the people that the current will not rise in the coming winter months. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u7	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. In essence, you are making a proposal to remove the item from the agenda, which I will put to the vote. There are no undistributed proposals tabled on behalf of parliamentary groups and MPs at the Forty-third National Assembly. I put to the vote Mr. Siderov's proposal to drop the agenda of the item to be discussed. Vote 192 MPs: 11 against 161, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. On yesterday, the report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance was provided to the MPs. [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Vladimirov.]] We've started the dot. You have a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We from Ataka think that Mr. Ivan Iskrov should attend this meeting of the National Assembly. Let him be here to present the report on the actions of the Bulgarian National Bank on Corporate Commercial Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u9	I don't see a reverse offer. I put to the vote the proposal that Mr. Ivan Iskrov be present in the discussion of the forthcoming item on the agenda. Please vote. Vote 188 MPs: 163 against 16, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Who will present the report on behalf of the Temporary Commission? Mrs. Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I would like to make a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Please allow the following representatives of the Bulgarian National Bank: Dimitar Kostov
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u11	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Vote 171 MPs: for 171, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Quaestors, invite those admitted to the Chamber. We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u12	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance on a report of the Bulgarian National Bank "The events and the actions taken related to the Corporate Commercial Bank " AD" and Commercial Bank "Victoria" EAD At a meeting held on 29 October 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined the report of the Bulgarian National Bank. The persons we invited today as representatives of the Bulgarian National Bank, also Mr. Boyan Kolev and Ms. Rositsa Petkova were present chief experts; the Quaestors of the Corporate Commercial Bank Elena Kostadincheva, Stanislav Lyutov and Bozidar Arshinkov, as well as the representatives of the three audit firms: Vasco Raychev Hristina Vucheva, Emil Hersev, Krasimir Angari, Stoyan Alexandrov and Investors in Corporate Commercial Bank. The report was presented by Mr. Ivan Iskrov. The report presents the initial financial situation of the two banks on the basis of the data submitted by them, lays out conclusions from the new supervisory check at CCB, detailing the communication between BNB and the main shareholders, on the one hand, and the correspondence of the Bulgarian National Bank with the European Commission, the European Banking Authority and the International Monetary Fund, on the other. According to the data reported by the Corporate Commercial Bank (CCB) on 31 March 2014, the bank accounted for assets of 7 billion. The Commission therefore concludes In the first quarter, no significant changes were taken into account leading to a change in the bank's risk profile. The gross amount of regular exposures as at 31 March 2014 is 5 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. For the period analysed, their size increased by 361.1 million. lv. In the quarter, 3 exposures totalled 5 million were written off. lv. Totally impaired but not written off 52 exposures for nearly 9 million. lv. Net non-performing loans amounted to 19,748 thousand. lv. and represent 0.4% of the net loan portfolio at 0.6% at 31 December 2013, or 29 million. lv. By 31 March 2014, the Bank's capital position increased to 758.6 million. lv. As a result of the inclusion of the annual audited profit and subordinated debt in the amount of the remaining equivalent of 35 million. Euros. The higher own funds reported shall be the basis for the more substantial increase in loans over the period analysed, respectively, of the risk component. The financial result for the first quarter is a profit of 13.1 million. BGN formed by traditional banking activity. Liquid assets increase during the reporting period. In their structure with a leading stake of 71% are the cash and balances of the Bulgarian National Bank. The last supervisory inspection at the CCB carried out at the bank in the period 20.05.-08.07.2013 based on the data as of 31.03.2013 does not detect any violations of the regulations, but recommendations have been made to improve its activity. After 12.06.2014 as a result of a number of publications in the media, Internet and social networks, an increased withdrawal of funds from CCB clients began, and for the period 13-20 June the tide of attracted funds from CCB amounted to 907 064 thousand. lv. For the same period the tide of the funds attracted by TB "Victoria" EAD amounted to 56 241 thousand. lv. On 20.06.2014 at the request of the management of KTB, the Governing Council of BNB placed the bank under special supervision for a period of three months and appointed Quaestors. On 22.06.2014 she was placed under special supervision for the same period and commercial bank On 11.07.2014 at a meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance at the National Assembly, BNB presented the main results of the 10-day partial review of the assets of KTB and Commercial Bank With regard to the Commercial Bank, the check confirms the good with regard to the loan portfolio and its provision, as well as the availability of the necessary provisions. The results show good practices in the management of credit risk in the bank. With regard to CCB, auditors are able to assess just over 1/3 of the loan portfolio. The auditors claim that they are unable to express an opinion on a loan portfolio of around 3.5 billion. BGN, which is about 60% of the total credit portfolio of CCB. The impossible assessment is determined by the lack of significant parts of credit files. There are reports...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u13	It can't be!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u14	For the destruction of documents in the days before the bank was placed under special supervision, but other reasons are possible for the missing documentation. Thus, in the case of already exhausted and non-available liquid assets and in the case of unestablished capital adequacy, it is not possible to provide liquidity to CCB from either the central bank in its function as a creditor of the last instance or from the State. The BNB and the government conclude that in the case of incomplete information and insufficient data on the quality of the assets of KTB, the initial plan involving state participation in the capital of the bank is not justified. On 25.07.2014 the Quaestors of KTB presented a Report on the current state of the bank. The report presented the Bank's outstanding financial statement as of 30.06.2014. The bank's financial result as of 30.06.2014 is a loss of 65.3 million. lv. and is entirely due to the monthly expenses charged for the impairments of the loan portfolio. On 16.09.2014 the Governing Council of BNB decided to extend the period of special supervision for CCB AD and Commercial Bank lv. As of September 2014, and for the Commercial Bank, the total amount of 285 786 thousand for the Bank of Commerce (Victoria) EAD amounted to 285 786 thousand. lv. The BNB takes the view that before a clear assessment of the quality of assets and the capital adequacy of CCB is made, it is not possible to take economically justified and legally binding decisions about the future of the bank. On the basis of the outcome of the valuation of CCB assets, the reported ratio of its capital adequacy and the investment intentions of EPIC in the period from 01.11.2014 to 20.11.2014 a final decision on CCB should be taken. With regard to the Commercial Bank "Victoria" EAD, BNB states that because CCB is under special supervision due to a shortage of liquidity it cannot provide liquid support to the Commercial Bank "Victoria" EAD. Accordingly, the Bank of Commerce (SOE) does not have liquid assets to meet the requirements of BNB Ordinance No 6 and against which it can obtain liquidity from BNB under the last resort creditor rules. Regardless of the fact that the valuation of the assets and supervisory accounts of the Commercial Bank However, at this stage, given the uncertainty of CCB's capital adequacy, it cannot be demonstrated to the European Commission that CCB has a sufficient level of capital adequacy to obtain State aid. Therefore, the only source of liquidity to the Bank of Commerce remains the sale of illiquid assets. On this basis, the Quaestors of TB are given orders to take action to prepare for a tender procedure for the sale of parts of the bank's loan portfolio in order to secure the necessary liquidity to meet the bank's obligation to depositors and creditors. As regards the CCB, the analysis and valuation of the bank's assets carried out by audit firms in the period 05.08. - 20.10.2014 indicates that the total amount of all assets of the bank amounts to 6 662 million. lv. The conclusion of the audit firms is that there is a need for impairments of assets of the bank of a total amount of 4 222 million. lv. The bank's highly liquid funds, cash on central bank accounts and available at 30.09.2014 are 331 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Compared to 30.06.2014 it is the result of a transfer on accounts to BNB of funds held in correspondent accounts in commercial banks and proceeds from claims on principals and interest. For the period, costs of impairments resulting from disclosed losses and re-classification of exposures have been charged: 1. The biggest losses were the result of the accounting operation carried out on 20.06.2014 reflecting the withdrawal of a bank of 206 million. lv. against an unfulfilled obligation of the company for the return of the paörs on 30.06.2014, which was reported as an asset in the form of this claim. In practice, there are no clear grounds for its actual existence or for its actual collection by the bank. Therefore, its value is zero in accordance with the standards for the recognition of assets under International Financial Reporting Standards. 2. Another similar operation was established during the period considered. As a result of a loan-based provision of government securities worth 80 million EUR to the SFC-IME-AD, which it is neither able to return (or recover) nor alternative to pay the due remuneration, the amounts reported as part of the SIC investment portfolio are reskilled in a claim by the SCC-IME-AD. As the company is in insolvency proceedings and the probability of this claim being collected is minimal, the latter is devalued at 100%. 3. The loan portfolio's carrying amount as of 30 September 2014 reflected a valuation of 148 million. lv. under the policy in force until 20 August 2014 for determining impairment losses. The results of the valuation carried out by audit firms of the bank's main balance sheet positions, including credit samples, investment portfolio, securities, other assets, real estate, which includes exposures of 138 borrowers with a total amount of liabilities as of 30 September 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or 96.6% of the total corporate loan portfolio are the following: 1. For 14 borrowers with a total exposure amount of 441 million lv. there is no indication of impairment or impairment is minimal. Although no significant valid collateral has been identified in five cases, the financial situation of the companies gives rise to the conclusion that depreciations of 46 million are required for this group. lv. 2. For 29 borrowers with a total exposure amount of 888 million. lv. an operating activity has been established, the results of which do not support sufficiently the servicing of its loans. For these companies there are significant signs of deterioration of their financial situation.. permanently decreasing revenues and/or profits, loss of activity, negative equity and so on; and/or business, whose business is not comparable to the size or purpose of the loan granted; for four of the companies no valid collateral has been identified. In total, for this group, the conclusion is that depreciations of 594 million are required. lv. 3. A group of 6 borrowers with a total exposure of 377 million. lv. can be defined as companies with a high level of business dependence on a small number of related parties. In general, depreciations of 216 million are required for the group. lv. 4. The largest group of 82 borrowers consists of those who, in their dominant part, do not have their own operating activity or it is highly limited and their revenues are generated entirely or predominantly by third parties. The total exposure of all companies in the group was 3434 million. BGN, or 64% of the loan portfolio. These are companies and holding companies whose main activity is primarily investment, in many cases without own personnel and other operating activities. Many of them were born, i.e. created within 12 months before the first loan was granted, or for the purpose of acquiring shares and shares in other companies. As of 30 September 2014, as a result of the analysis of borrowers in this category, the debt coverage ratio with valid collateral, taking into account their recoverable value, is only around 2%. According to the balance sheet of borrowers of this group in cases where they are available, a large part of them account for significant claims on third parties or investments in other undertakings. The conclusion of the assessment is that for this loan group there are grounds for charging material impairment of 3021 million. lv. 5. Its ability to service loans is a group of 5 companies which, although operating, do not achieve results enabling the servicing of the loans, but the valid collateral, as far as it exists, is of limited value. At an exposure of 172 million lv. This group requires an impairment of 166 million. lv. 6. As a separate group, two companies have been identified for which a bankruptcy procedure has already been opened and the expected loss has been estimated at 14 million. lv. As of 30 September 2014, the total amount of the gross book value of the loans in the sample amounted to 5335 million. lv. with an assessment of the necessary impairments of 4057 million. lv. The conclusion of the audit firms' reports is that there is a need for depreciations of securities of 144 million. lv. The auditors' reports are provided in the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office due to a number of omissions made by the bank before it was placed under special supervision, which make the financial and supervisory reports presented by its management to the Bank's supervisory board of BNB unreliable and misleading. The findings and conclusions in the report of the supervisory inspection carried out in the period 7 July 2014 confirm the conclusions made as a result of the audit companies' reports for the analysis and assessment of the assets of CCB, namely that the control and management bodies of the bank have applied vicious banking and business practices, thus presenting false and misleading financial and supervisory reports for years. That is why this report was sent to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. The report of the Bulgarian National Bank describes in detail its work with the main shareholders of the Corporate Commercial Bank (BNB) in the search for a solution in relation to the situation in the bank, the work with the European Banking Authority on the occasion of the initiation of a review of the quality, capacity, practices and procedures of the management of the Bank in BNB, the work with the International Monetary Fund and the request for the organization of a mission of the International Monetary Fund in Bulgaria, the opinion of the Bulgarian side on the occasion of a infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission on 25 September 2014 in relation to failure to comply with the obligations arising for Bulgaria, according to Art. 1 (3) and Article 10 (1) of Directive 94/19/EC, as amended by Directive 2009/14/EC, as regards the failure to secure access to deposits in the Corporate Commercial Bank. In the debates held on the report of the Bulgarian National Bank, the members of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance raised numerous questions related to the bank supervision carried out, with the methodology under which the audit checks were carried out, the possible decisions on the case of the Corporate Commercial Bank. Following the discussions on the report, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The Council of Ministers, together with the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission, shall carry out an analysis of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on Guarantee of Deposits in Banks and shall submit legislative amendments to the National Assembly in accordance with the law of the European Union in the field of Banking, which shall ensure the effectiveness of the banking supervision and stability of the banking system in Bulgaria. 2. The National Assembly shall, by 6 November 2014, adopt legislative amendments to ensure the payment of guaranteed deposits under the conditions and within the time limits laid down in European Union law. 3. The National Assembly, by 6 November 2014, shall adopt amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, which shall oblige the Bulgarian National Bank to propose measures to rescue banks when their own capital becomes negative, taking into account the macroeconomic effect and effect on the state budget. 4. In order to protect the public interest more effectively and the interest of the depositors in the Corporate Commercial Bank relating to the need to follow up on the activities carried out by the shareholders and administrators of the Bank as well as related persons, assets, assets, financial instruments and cash transfers, it recommends to the Bulgarian National Bank to enter into a contract with an international legal person with experience in this field, including in the investigation and tracking of cash flows in insolvency. The draft decision has been adopted under the heading. 1, 2 and 4 with 12 votes.... 4 votes against...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 votes for 6 votes against 6 votes without abstentions and abstentions and thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Before we move on to the debates, I would like to inform the MPs, in view of the distribution in the Rules, what is the time available to each of the parliamentary groups. In accordance with art. 54, para. 1 of the smallest parliamentary groups have 15 minutes, and the largest with 30. In view of the total time, the following result is received: the group of GERB has 30 minutes, the group of the BSP left Bulgaria The debates are open. Before that, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose that I make a procedure with the following proposal - to invite here in plenary, former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to come to work because, as we all know, in his day... [[(Noise and lines from GERB, calls:]] That's the bank that built up huge finances. He's got a lot to say about that. Let's not forget that Mr. Borisov was the one who, in this period when the bank went bankrupt, he was the one who most went public and had the most to say, so my constructive procedural proposal is to invite him Mr. Borisov. Madam President, I ask you to put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u17	Mr. Chukolov, the participation of the MPs in the plenary is not fixed in the Rules and there is no procedure to invite him. Everyone's invited, Mr. Chukolov. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend the plenary. Since there were obstructions from the group of BSP left Bulgaria in relation to the time distribution, I read verbatim art. 54, para. 1: Art. 54. (1) The President shall determine the time to discuss each item on the agenda, as well as the day and time at which the vote on it will take place. The time for discussion shall be allocated to the parliamentary groups depending on their numbers, and for the smallest of them it shall not be less than 15 minutes, but for the largest of them 30 minutes. In total, the speaking time of the MPs not members of a parliamentary group shall be up to 15 minutes and of the individual MPs not members of a parliamentary group within 5 minutes. We have one MP who doesn't belong to a parliamentary group, so I announced 5 minutes. Mr. Bojinov, I read it for you. Meet the still-acting Rules of the Forty-Second National Assembly. Debates are open. [[Attack call: "Procedure!."]] Mr. Alexandrov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of a publication in the Banker, that BNB's report is another manipulation by CCB executives, I am making a procedural proposal to vote on it and to invite the directors in question, because they are part of the country as well. If we are going to save something with state money and we are going to debate, they should also be here, so I am making a procedural proposal to invite Orlin Rusev, Ilian Zafirov, Georgi Hristov and Alexander Pantaleev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u19	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 130 MPs: 36, against 37, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Dimitrov to speak, please. To remind you that the debates have been opened because it's been a while since I found them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u20	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject is, without any doubt, extremely important, and that is why we in the Reformation Block from the outset want to make the procedural proposal the four points to be voted separately so that the attitude of each parliamentary group can be expressed on each of them. One of the best things that is happening with this draft decision is the proposal for an international investigation, which we from the Reformation Block have been insisting on since the beginning, because this is mandatory because if an international investigation is not conducted, the people who are involved in this extremely unpleasant scheme will repeat it after years if in the banking system, whether somewhere else, but there will be a repetition, that is to say clearly, they will like it. Therefore, as a parliament today, we must take the firm decision to investigate to a hole, to follow up and to return the money. Often, certain individuals try to make the suggestion: Forget these 4.22 billion. lv.! They're gone now! Forget them! Write them off! And that's not true. Some of this money, and relatively much of it, can be sent back through a company that specializes in such investigations and which has conducted such investigations in similar cases throughout the civilized world. This must happen and I am convinced that this topic can unite the Bulgarian Parliament, all of us to vote on it, all of us to support this. If someone decides not to support it, it will be interesting to share their motives with all of us, only simply hiring a company with a competition is not enough. This company, which will be hired, must have done these activities already and successfully done them for similar cases with similar banks anywhere in the world, managed to return the money, managed to expose the guilty and provide a list with them to the competent authorities so that they could be tried and held accountable. So, indeed, this is the most important decision that we may make today, and it can be consensual for the National Assembly! From there on out, guys. We in the Reformation Block have concerns about point 3, the type of point 3 and the way it is proposed. And I will immediately explain these concerns in the most specific way. First of all, what is the cheapest way to continue, for society, the cheapest, most profitable way, the most effective way to resolve the KTB issue? This is if the State provides a guarantee for the borrowing of the Deposit Guarantee Fund because there is no money movement, there is no increase in the budget deficit, and the Fund has its own revenue to cover the loan taken, i.e. the risk to the State is lower than any other alternative. This is the cheapest way, because as the third point is recorded, the question is asked: "Which is the cheapest way for Bulgarian society? Here, this is the cheapest way for the State guarantee with which the Fund to take credit. Remember, the Fund has its own revenue. With this own income, he can pay back credits. If this compares it to the other alternative that is somehow offered to us, but not obviously, if the other alternative is government money to go to the Corporate Commercial Bank, we are against for several reasons. First, when state money goes to a bank with negative equity, and here is Minister Porozhanov, consider this a question to you, this should reflect as an increase in deficit. Colleagues, we are already looking at the updated budget, with a deficit of about 4%. Imagine what would happen if new funds had to go to increase the budget deficit. In a similar situation in Slovenia, the money the state used to save banks was reflected as an increased budget deficit, which became a systemic problem for the state afterwards. Do we want a systemic problem for Bulgaria? There are also moral arguments, colleagues. Why give government money to save a bank when we have perfect legislation that can be implemented? I have heard representatives of all parliamentary groups say how good Bulgarian legislation is in this area. Well, if we've all been sincere, we should be applying it now, not looking for loopholes. We have another very important argument, and it is as follows: those of you who were at the Temporary Budget Committee which was discussing these issues, we have all heard several very disturbing facts presented by the guests who were in the Commission, namely that there are currently, listen well: applications between 500 and 600 million. lv. of requests for destinations and intercepts with regard to CCB. You're not all economists, you're not all lawyers, and you don't have to know what that means. This means, in fact, the following thing: that at the moment, that now, that potentially unwarranted deposits can be made today before guaranteed deposits can be made. How does that work? Through assignments and intercepts. And if we, if the National Assembly decides to extend the term, for example, from the accounting of negative capital to the withdrawal of the licence, because this is, as I understand it, one idea, if there are other ideas, it would be right to present them, that would mean this period for assignments and intercepts to extend it potentially. If there is a way to resolve this, I would be delighted to have my fellow Members propose it. But if we do this thing, fellow Members, eventually there is a huge risk that the Deposit Guarantee Fund will be damaged, because it is logical that this is economic logic, that the best loans will be involved in these ceding and intercept operations. That makes sense! And with them it is logical to make ungaranted deposits at the moment. For this reason we have reservations to point three, but we believe that they in the debate and in the talks between us and GERB, and the other parties are decided. We believe that proper editing can be found so that these issues can be resolved and our concerns can be eliminated. And ultimately, colleagues, a key question is why, if the Bulgarian legislation on this topic is defined as good? I remember there was a peer review that tracked and analyzed the Bulgarian legislation in this area and assessed it as one of the best in the European Union. Why, if that's the case, should we start changing it at the last minute, at the 90th minute of the game? Then if any other bank, God forbid ever, I wish it never happened, falls into such a situation, they will want the same. That is, if we give State money to a bank with negative equity now, every bank in Bulgaria will know that tomorrow could demand the same thing. And what argument would we have?! This Parliament or the future Parliament, what argument will we have, fellow Members, to refuse?! It is therefore right to abide by the law as to what it is, simply because it is more honest. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with what I have started with, we insist that the four points be voted separately so that we can strongly support the first, second and fourth points and express our reservations to point three, and we are ready to resolve and edit it so that our concerns are dropped. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I was a little surprised by your speech because I thought today the National Assembly would consider the report which was submitted about what the Quaestors have established, what the auditors have established, what has happened to this bank. So today we have to deal with this, but weirdly why you focused your speech and your attention, and perhaps you want to divert the House from this debate and direct it to the debate on the draft decision. I am making this line to ask you, as well as to tell colleagues: what, honourable Members, of what Mr. Dimitrov expressed as concerns is written in the Draft Decision, item three, that the National Assembly should adopt amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, which would oblige BNB to propose actions to rescue banks when their own capital becomes negative, taking into account the macroeconomic effect and the effect on the state budget? What, Mr. Dimitrov, did you see here about pouring government funds, about other things that you expressed from this tribune? And regarding what you said at the end of your speech, that we have a wonderful legislation. The legislation is really good and is in line with European norms and directives, but you probably do not know, Mr. Dimitrov, that by the end of this year we remain two months in which we are obliged to transpose the European directive, in which there is a whole chapter on Restructuring of Banks and which precisely regulates these ways, approaches in such cases, so we do not find America. On the contrary, we have not done our job because if we had transposed these texts earlier, we would not be having this debate. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u23	Second line please, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u24	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I am addressing you as a fellow economist. It is incomprehensible to me what you expressed in your speech today for two simple reasons. Today, the Bulgarian Parliament is on its head not only in what way to get out of the situation named KTB. Today, honourable Members, we are facing a much more serious issue. We must save 12% of the Bulgarian economy today. For me, it is an incomprehensible shift in the subject when we need to look at and unravel this report, in which we do not have information on how many percent of the deposits are so-called "invokes with interest rates' that are not subject to guarantee and return, because this is an extremely serious issue. Tomorrow we can make changes to the law either today, and the situation is absolutely identical and the same.. people can not get their money, because it says, if memory does not lie to me, art. 5 of the Deposit Guarantee Act. I ask you here to listen to those gentlemen who are trying to shift the subject, blazing on the string called "popularism" because is it the decision of the bank to enter a bankruptcy procedure, otherwise referred to as bankruptcy, which is in no way clear that it is not a solution, the state is not prepared?! Where was banking supervision for 11 years?! Did you get, Mr. Dimitrov, and you, colleagues, an answer to another topic that alongside the problems of KTB is saving another bank? Mr. Chobanov, don't look at me smart, because you were a minister. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I ask you, you must give here today an answer: were you warned by Financial Intelligence about problems with the banking system? Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u25	Third line.. Mrs. Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u26	Colleagues, let's get this debate back to the expert tone. Mr. Dimitrov, I deeply respect your qualities as an economist. In your speech, you have shown a desire to make an amendment. If paragraph 3 is edited, you should support it. Since our expertise is obviously not good enough, I recommend that you prepare such an edit to hear how you think this text will sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u27	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I thank my colleagues for the lines they've made. And now, in particular, one by one. Ms. Stoyanova, when the National Assembly votes a third item with this content, we must say what we want. We can't vote on intentions. We need to reveal what we're putting into content behind them. That is why I have voiced our concerns, and in the most constructive way in order to look for an option in which these concerns of ours should be resolved in some way. As for the amount of guaranteed deposits, Mr. Bayraktarov, yes, any deposit with preferential interest is not guaranteed under the Bulgarian legislation. However, I have understood your statement so that you declare yourself a rescue of KTB. That's what you said. You used longer words, sentences, but that's what you said. Look, there's something else I've been trying to tell you. The message today from the Reformation Block is that the price of this is much higher than the price of the state to provide a bank guarantee to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The price is much higher because when you give only one bank guarantee, you don't give money, you don't make the budget balance worse. And when there's a plan, you should say... From Mrs. Stoyanova's statement it is understood that there is no plan to invest state money in KTB, which calms me. And we from the Reformation Block are much more relaxed now. That's how I understood Mrs. Stoyanova's statement. And if that is true, then much of our concerns are not necessary, but the cost of putting public money into CCB is much higher and we are setting a precedent for each bank as of tomorrow, if it comes to a similar situation, even some banks will deliberately be able to reach such a situation, will expect the state to put money into it. That is why we propose and defend the idea that Bulgarian legislation should be respected. And I'm asking you again, guys. I have all heard you from GERB and from the left sectors and from the right to say how Bulgarian legislation in this field is one of the best in the European Union. If we are sincere, it is not right at the last moment to look for such changes, which at the last minute.... hardly when the match is over, to change the rules. You know, at the last minute of the game, every change of rules is bad and unfair. So the edit that I would suggest to you at t. 3 is to drop it, honourable Members. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u29	Any other Members of Parliament wishing to take part in the deliberations? Mr. Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u30	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The problem of Corporate Commercial Bank is not only the problem of the bank itself. It is a problem of the banking and economic system of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is why we, together with colleagues from the other parliamentary groups, BNB and other state institutions, are making efforts from the first hours of the crisis of the summer in attempts to solve the problem KTB in a way that will be in the interests of the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian economy. We all know the indicators of the bank, which is in the first two assets and market share. And all of us, when we make a decision, must, honourable Members, realize that we are talking about a large bank with a significant influence and role in the Bulgarian economy, which has played for years. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that before we make a decision, we need to answer some questions which are also to the Bulgarian National Bank, which under Constitution and by law is responsible for the security of the banking system and the most important function of banking supervision. I have already had the opportunity to say to the Commission that, in the context of a monetary council, in practice, the only defining function of the People's Bank of Bulgaria is precisely banking supervision, as the monetary council prohibits our national bank from conducting monetary policy, with some very small exceptions that you know. The questions when discussing the problem of CCB and why we believe it has reached a final stage and the current Law on Credit Institutions must be implemented are the following. First, did not the bank supervision of BNB impress from the data this extreme concentration of risk, and our speech is based on the official data of the three independent auditors, approved reports by the Bulgarian National Bank and other state institutions? Why do 138 borrowers, through nearly 400 credit contracts, control in practice 70% of the corporate commercial bank's loan portfolio? Is this amazing credit risk not noticed by the supervision of the Bulgarian National Bank throughout this period of time, as it is more than 4 billion. lv.? Secondly, has it not been noticed by the experts of the banking supervision that 8-10 companies from the large borrowers are located at the same address? Next, has it not made an impression and has it not lit up in the monitors of banking supervision that for most of these borrowers literally hours or days after receiving the loan, the loan has been reordered and sent to other banks, to other natural and legal persons? In addition, didn't BNB and the other state institutions, including SANS, have been impressed that in the period 2008-2012 someone apparently ordered the Bulgarian state companies and agencies to transfer their current accounts and deposits to this bank? For what reason and who will pay the risk price for the Bulgarian people, which is expressed in 4 billion. 200 million. lv.? Hasn't BNB and state institutions been impressed with the next fact, the extremely high interest rate on deposits, which is a sure guarantee that a bank is in difficulty? Let's go. How is it that a bank increases its capital, increases its market share when it provides itself with an expensive resource at high interest rates on deposits and gives loans at market interest? Who covers that difference and who will pay the price? Again, the price must pay the Bulgarian society. In this regard, in addition to the issues of banking supervision and other banking institutions, we express our attitude and the following opinion: The Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria insists on the implementation of the Credit Institutions Act as it is, because despite our summer attempts so far, we are extremely consistent in our position, it has proved that there is no way for a bank to be healed, which has been closed for more than three, almost four months, every day being discussed in the media in minutes and hours. In our opinion, there is no such investor as to save 5 levs will invest another 500,000. lv. and who will try to heal the bank, which is spilled into public space and public opinion. It would be great to have the bank healed, and that is why we worked day and night with colleagues from other parliamentary groups, and from BNB with an attempt to check and determine whether it is possible to recover the bank, but unfortunately it cannot be healed. That is why we are against the recovery of the bank with public funds. There is no way we can ask the Bulgarian state to pour 4 billion. 200 million. lv. to begin with, to cover the risk of calling it this capital inadequacy and to cover non-refundable and non-performing loans, and at the same time, if this bank starts, let us assume next Monday that it will require more billions to start functioning. But it's a pointless enterprise. Therefore, we are surprised at the rumors that have been going for days about imaginary investors circling Sofia will land any moment with some billions and with 10 billion will save 5 BGN. It is obvious that this is contrary to sound logic and it is too good to happen, which is why we need to see reality and see under what conditions we can decide to solve this case with a Corporate Commercial Bank. That is why we strongly support the implementation of the legislation in force "all Bulgarian citizens and companies that have regular deposits up to 100 thousand. Euros, according to European and Bulgarian legislation, can and should be compensated by the Bulgarian state. Before loading the Bulgarian budget yesterday at informal discussions in the Ministry of Finance, as well as other colleagues, we supported the position that we want, firstly, the banking system to do everything possible to mobilise its reserves, including the Bulgarian National Bank; to explore all possibilities for mobilisation of resources by the Guarantee Fund and as a last resort creditor, if necessary, to participate in the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. We do not agree with the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria to be tied up, as is proposed in the draft decision on the banking system of Bulgaria.......................................................................................... We do not agree with such a policy and our parliamentary group will never support such decisions! With regard to the draft decisions. In our view, we have really lost 4-5 hours in the Temporary Budget Committee, as the draft decisions I will tell you why some of them contradict the Constitution and others are not necessary because they are already enshrined in the legislation. But to be exact. First, I want to start with a t. 3. It makes an impression that in t. 3, and that is my question to the President of the Commission, there is an interesting change. In the Commission's debates and in the text I have, in particular, 3 writes: The Parliament obliges BNB to take measures to rescue banks that have negative capital. In what is distributed to the parliamentarians, it says to propose. My question is: who made the change in protocol and why? Clearly, someone felt that to propose or to take the position is more precisely contrary to the Constitution. Look, despite our criticism of the BNB, we will not allow the Bulgarian Constitution to be violated and to inculcate the BNB functions and actions that are not the work of Parliament. How can we oblige the Bulgarian National Bank to take action against any commercial bank that is in temporary difficulty and to find funds in the conditions of monetary council in order to heal the bank? Again, this is contrary to the Constitution and the Bulgarian laws, and can cause us extremely serious trouble from the European Central Bank, which, according to our data, is already following very closely and with great concern what some of our colleagues want to do. Besides, there's no need for that. 2 to oblige the National Assembly to adopt legislative amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, offer them up! Why was it necessary to spend five hours saying that we needed to make legislative amendments? Please submit them to the Commission, we will examine them and vote on them. In the same way, in t. 1 it is pointless to show the Council of Ministers, BNB and other bodies to gather, analyze and propose changes in the law. Under the Constitution, Parliament has no obligation to advise other state institutions. Those who have a legislative initiative can use it, so can colleagues from each parliamentary group. Under these conditions, we believe that the proposed draft decisions do not in any way help the decision of the case CTB, nothing more.....................in violation of the Bulgarian Constitution and laws, and we do not even have the right to debate them. Not to mention voting. We are also opposed to the extension of the deadline with these fictional potential investors, who are nowhere in the official announcements of BNB. In the official announcement here is also the Minister of Finance, there are no such investors and let some people stop lying to the Bulgarian public. If someone wants to give more time to the hidden ones, they are legal, operations at the expense of the Bulgarian state, which ultimately has to take the money they will give to KTB for the guaranteed deposits in one form or another, if someone wants to give more time to have more operations so far said about 700 million, could be more, let him say. Dear colleagues, we are here to defend the public interest, not to defend the interests of some of these strange borrowers who do not serve their loans. In this regard, we will not accept the payment of guaranteed deposits from the Bulgarian banking system before the bank's license has been revoked, which is contrary to the legislation of most European countries, to the Bulgarian legislation. Let us be clear about the directive "the European Union directive is recommended. When we change legislation, then this directive will be in force and will become a law. So let us not misinterpret this recommendation in the European Union directive with regard to the recipients of guaranteed claims. Look, I'll say again: we can't afford it. Imagine that, in the future, after years, some commercial bank has one or two temporary difficulties. Any bank with temporary difficulties will immediately hang deposits on the Bulgarian budget. Do you realize what this means for the budget of Bulgaria, regardless of who manages it?! Who will pay this account in such an emergency? So we cannot support such a decision. To conclude, we believe that these proposals are unacceptable. Most of them contradict the Bulgarian Constitution and laws, they are meaningless from an investment point of view. If they love fellow Members who wish to change legislation, to propose specific changes to the laws to be discussed. We will continue to do everything possible with a well-meaning tone, expert with our colleagues, to discuss opportunities and solutions for CCB, which benefit the Bulgarian society. We are here, which concludes the first part of our parliamentary group's speech in order to protect public interests, not to save a private bank that has become self-possessed, so to speak, over a period of several years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u31	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u32	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, fellow MPs! I'll be extremely brief. I don't have a short memory, and I'm going to remind professor. How many banks went bankrupt in your time in 1996? I think it was 13. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]] Let's not pretend to be more Catholic than the pope right now. I'll tell you something else. Here you are right, really in the management of GERB 52% of the state money was in this bank. It's a fact! At the moment, however, we are faced with a situation of call and I think that we should also give this bank a minimal chance to be healed. How it will really be healed, this issue is extremely difficult, but at least we need to give some time. Now I don't want to get into the details of what needs to be done, there are much bigger specialists here. You have to give this bank some time to give it a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u33	Is there a wishing Member of the National Assembly? No. Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u34	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague, memory is a good thing, but it is good to remember 1996, because then and then, on a larger scale, of course, although not much bigger, something like this has been done, licenses have been given to waiters, drivers, security guards, who in the same way made a system of banks that stole themselves, as you well know, and tied the stolen banks on the Bulgarian budget. So in the Bulgarian budget more than 60% of the expenditure went to serve interest on government debt because of the bank robbery. They robbed the banks of what some now want to do, transferred to the budget, bought the media for years to push and remind people when it happened. What did these people do with the banks that stole people's credit and deposits? They bought the Bulgarian economy, they own entire sectors of the Bulgarian economy, you can't fight some of them - Mom, Dad and I. Isn't that right?! Three generations will now serve our children, those who stole the banks. That's why I'm here. We will not support the robbery of banks in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u35	Until now, a desire to participate in the debate has stated the following MPs: Mr. Emil Dimitrov from the Patriotic Front, Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin and Mr. Kiril Tsochev from ABB. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u36	Madam President, thank you for your opportunity. Mr. Minister, honourable Members, to make it clear, because we were in a smaller format, I will tell you what happened through my eyes to this Commission, and certainly we must finally take decisions all together, because no one individually could, but let us not politicize in one direction or another. I had no intention of speaking, but you provoked me with your actions. Let me tell you what happened to the Commission. I could not personally understand we have Bank supervision or we have a supervisory umbrella on the activities of this bank because BNB has a very good management with 96 employees, with 6 departments of micro, macro level, computers, risk analysis, on-the-spot checks. But here's all that stuff that people thought was happening, and it's gonna help them protect their money, it didn't happen. We didn't know what the reaction and actions were after the bank was placed under supervision. I personally did not receive a very important answer.... what is the state of the bank? A company goes, evacuates, says:..it's okay. Three companies appear and say, "Four billion." Then let's get the first firm and the bank back to work because this company could have audited other banks. I certainly asked a few bankers, it turns out that the company was very well audited, but in the case of the specific bank something happened. I have no answer for why 11 years the law was good, everything was fine, and when suddenly there was a conflict and the bank had to work with full force, it turned out that the law does not allow us one thing and does not oblige me to do another. In this regard, it was also the proposal, which I now hope we will vote on - any change that could interrupt the possibility of something like this happening in the future and be able to act more adequately, we can accept it. It is very nice to transfer responsibility from an institution to the National Assembly and to start talking aside: "You are doing this, it does not allow it to the board, allows otherwise and so on. No one is asking you to do anything that is incompatible with your duties. We want to change the law as it should. Personally, I didn't understand, and I really wanted to know if KTB was dead or not? We're actually writing a script and asking, the price of the funeral or delaying? No one could answer that question. That is why we have come to the decision that if there is a minimal possibility that this bank will be healed and will continue to work, we must give it. This will happen with a change in legislation. So this report is not a chronicle of a predestined death. This report enables us to change legislation, to call for an international investigation that can legally do all these actions in order to have transparency, to be able to postpone, to give one last chance if there is a chance to fix the bank, and, of course, to have legislative changes. No one has questioned the guaranteed deposits. The mechanism of their recovery is sought. No one has questioned the role of the Ministry of Finance. Even yesterday we said that since they will adopt this bank anyway, it must be clear who the father is and that must be the minister of finance, because the state protects the wide public interest and it must be protected much better than the Syndicates are doing right now. So for me, the more important question is not to go in one direction or another, but to clear these points and to do everything possible if there is a chance that the bank will recover if it has to be put into the procedure... to do so, and, of course, the fastest way to find a way out so that we can recover the guaranteed deposits of these people, because some of them rely exclusively on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u37	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The line is Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u38	Dear colleagues, this is the second time we have heard the proposal for an international investigation. What does international mean? What is this international institution that investigates banks in individual national countries? There is a European Central Bank, there are European regulations in the banking business, we have a report that is signed by What's more international, Mr. Dimitrov? Is Ernst and Young a Bulgarian audit firm, what are they? What are they? Who are those who should come internationally and replace the Bulgarian national investigative bodies and what more can they say? What you are proposing is part of what my colleague Gechev was talking about just a moment ago to beat the ball while some intercepts are being carried out in the bank so that the state can then get nothing. That's what this is about. And here it will weigh on everyone's conscience, including you, as you have the reputation of a person who adheres to some public principles, and what you propose is the opposite. I'm sorry to have to put it this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u39	Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in the form of a reply, but I also address all my colleagues: Colleagues, the subject that was both the Budget Committee and today's meeting, is this report, of course, and the decisions that the Committee has proposed. I invite my reply to my colleagues on this report, if anyone has a disagreement or consent, if someone rejects or does not reject, let him say it from this platform, because this is important in terms of the decision-making process. Because I didn't know if you were taking everything in this report or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u42	Unlike many of you, I personally have no money. The last advance to the Council of Ministers has been translated 400 leva. I don't think this is some kind of conflict of interest. I'm a minister of the Council of Ministers, and that's where they wired me an advance, and I don't have it. Many of you do, however. I don't question the mandatory money we have to give people back. We must return them and seek the mechanism with the Minister. With regard to international companies. There are companies that do international investigations and maybe they're a lot more experienced than we are. I don't say who to be, you decide. KPMG whether they are an international firm, having audited the bank, and it turns out that other three, also international, have found a hole of 4 billion at the moment. Moreover, is this report official or is this the opinion of these three companies? You do realize that starting tomorrow, is it $4 billion, is it 3,900, is it 3,800? I accept this report as it is, and I have no doubt in any of the companies they have audited. What I want is that if we go into procedure, the bankruptcy table will be collected in the most transparent way, because yesterday we heard that there are replacements, assignments, intercepts. It is clear that commissioning is not invented today. I myself have studied at school that the displacement of the number of collections does not change the total sum, but the displacement of debtors will not change the mass of insolvency? So for me, international support will be very important, because whoever is doing it here will be charged with political bias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u44	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I have paid attention to Prof. Gechev and he announced from the parliamentary platform that there is a replacement of one text in the Decision of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs Tsacheva conveniently did not hear the remark made. We are talking about a replacement, a forgery of the text from the Temporary Parliamentary Commission to plenary. The text is not harmless. This is about the text of the decision in point three, which in the way that...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u45	That's not the way to run it, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u46	I ask, Mr. Glauchev, since previous parliaments have also been replaced by adopted acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u47	I'll take your word for it, it's not in the way of conduct. I don't see what you're up against the way you're going about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u48	Please note whether Mrs. Menda Stoyanova unilaterally replaced the text of point 3 of the decision or if there was any subsequent meeting of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance and the text of the BNB to oblige BNB to take action to rescue the bank...................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u49	I promise you I will conduct an investigation. I get your point. That's not the way you're running things, and that's why I'm taking your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u50	This changes the meaning of the decision adopted by the Temporary... [[The President shall exclude the microphones of the National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u51	Personal explanation Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u52	Dear Mrs. Manolova, you start with the old numbers from the forty-second parliament. Everyone who's been here is very clear. There's protocol, you'll be consulted. The truth is this. In the debate Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin proposed changes. He will confirm it from this tribune and these are his changes. When we voted on the texts, you can check in the minutes and in the transcripts what is written, they are with the proposals for changes made by the MPs. If Rumen Gechev, who was present on this committee, something had earplugs or something had memory problems [[Applause from GERB]] At least don't fall for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u53	Are there any other personal explanations? Mr. Kalfin, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u54	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank! Before I begin my statement on the substance, I would like to confirm what Mrs. Stoyanova said earlier. In the text proposed before the committee meeting, there were changes. I made them on the mic at the meeting. There was a meeting, and there was a table of cameras, NGOs and so on. That was absolutely public. I suggested exactly these changes in t. 3, where the BNB was called to take action to rescue the banks. I suggested that the BNB should propose actions and the addition at the end, taking into account the macroeconomic effect and the effect on the state budget. This is what I did during the committee meeting in front of a microphone in the Chamber before the vote on the text. So I am not surprised by this version that we are getting in plenary. If I may, I would now focus on what I would like to say on this subject. Dear colleagues, in addition to the report that has been presented to us and the information that has been presented to the Bulgarian National Bank, we can, of course, argue a lot about it, but we can hardly claim that we can have more information. As a supreme institution of the state and as representatives of the public interest, we need to seek answers to several questions. At least I don't see them yet. I don't see them in the actions so far, I don't see them in the BNB report, I don't see them in the decisions we make. So standing by and watching something happen outside of us can't happen. This is Parliament's role to ask for information and to know what is happening in the country. What's this about? First, the first question to be asked: why did it come to the Quaestors in this bank, in a large bank in Bulgaria? What didn't work? In BNB's report we see detailed descriptions of how Bank supervision worked, did its job, did what it does in all banks and did not find these problems. It is obvious that since there is a problem that has been created, it also has a problem in preventing the bank from falling into this state. Here, too, measures need to be taken to clarify what this problem is. Again, I don't think anyone here today can tell exactly where he's standing. But it needs to be clarified and the necessary changes to be made so that we can make sure that this case will not be repeated, that the following banks, which are supervised by the BNB, are stable enough and there is no risk to the banking system, and I maintain this confidence for myself, but we need to assure the public as well. Secondly, what has happened in these six months since the Quaestors entered the bank? Has the bank, which is in this state, improved, deteriorated, increased the public price for what will cost us a liquidation or reduced it? What were the Quaestors' actions? Yeah, they're legal. But what I see is that they have imported uncertainty, especially among people who have guaranteed deposits. They brought in uncertainty regarding the overall picture of the bank's situation. I'm not just talking about the Quaestors here. I'm talking about all the action. Yeah, it's all legal. There was a check that was requested by the BNB. It took several months, no one expects it in three days to analyse the state of the bank, but the problem stands that in these six months we can no longer talk about improving the bank, nor about reducing the public price from any development to be further, nor about actions that have anything to do with such actions in European countries. I had the opportunity to participate in the writing of European legislation in such cases for banks, and I observed very closely what was happening in Portugal, in Italy, in Spain. There is no such case as the case in Bulgaria. And that's for Mr. Martin Dimitrov, who says: "We have wonderful legislation." It's not wonderful, Mr. Dimitrov! It's not! If we compare what is happening in Bulgaria with what is happening in other countries with banks that have a problem, we see that Bulgaria has a problem with the procedures and the way the public interest in a bank is protected. Thirdly, the main difference for which we throw all numbers is related to the different assessment of Bank supervision and KPPG as an auditor of the bank and the check that has been done so far. When we spoke and was here the Governing Council of BNB several times asked the question whether they used a different methodology to assess the assets. Turns out there are differences in methodologies. We are not the ones who can judge audit firms by what methodology they should do it. But the fact is that there is a problem that an international, recognized by the large four audit companies says one and two or three more months after it a few months later they say something completely different. Obviously, there is also a problem here that must also be solved. It shall be decided, including by legislative changes, if not by law, by other regulations governing the activities of the Banking Supervision. Next: what is the effect? Is there anyone here in this room who can tell from all these events that have happened and who, again, have been made in a bad way as a result, what is the cost to society, what is the cost of the budget, what is the cost of the economy? This is why we asked the BNB to propose this analysis. I don't think anyone else can do that. And that's what's in this t. 3, which is discussed. This is where I want to speak to you, Mr. Dimitrov, because you started me to challenge a few more of your own. You say: the cheapest budget would be to guarantee the Deposit Guarantee Fund, to pay off the deposits and to end it all. No, there is an even cheaper option to pour money from the budget in the Deposit Guarantee Fund and not he, but the state to withdraw debt, but it is not acceptable and I agree with you that budget money should not be used. But where is the involvement of the banks? This fund is filled by Bulgarian commercial banks. Where is the commitment of the entire banking system? I'm the last one who wants to offer things that will make them go into some kind of instability or do things they shouldn't do. But we can't talk about the debt pays some guarantees of 4.5 billion and then gets them as a loan. Where does he get it as a loan? From that same banking system after that. So if we're talking about the cheapest options, in this case they're not the most acceptable. The cheapest is: the state withdraws debt, increases deficit, gives money to the fund two billion or so... And there's no telling how much it is between 700 million and a billion and 700 million and it's over. That's not acceptable! This cheapest option is not acceptable because it engages public funds. And one more thing. I was the one who raised the question of the assignments being made. Yes, they are legal, only that you are lying to each other and Mr. Gechev, and Mr. Dimitrov, that with the announcement of the bank in bankruptcy the sessions will stop. Who told you they'd stop? On the contrary, a trade union appears and begins the sessions, only opaque, and around the trade union. Who, where did you think they were stopping you from? On the contrary, with the proposal you make, as soon as bankruptcy is declared, the sessions begin immediately and pass through the trade union. You don't stop them with that thing. So then, when we talk about arguments, let's look at the solution. I say on behalf of our parliamentary group that we will support the decision we discussed in the temporary committee. Why? Because it is necessary not to actually extend the deadline, not to look for unknown investors from somewhere, but to ask someone to give us an analysis, and the only one is BNB, with different options for developing this case what it costs the economy and what it costs the budget. If you can say it today, you can say it well. Only you can't. And what we want is for the BNB to do it. If there is an investor, what we are hearing, who wants to give half, a third, and I do not know what it is not our job to analyse these results, but it is BNB's job to present this report to us, and not within three months or half a year, but within a few days or a week, or two, if necessary. That's what this is about. What you are saying now is: cancel automatically without knowing what the price is. We start throwing things at each other that aren't true, that they'll stop the sessions. They will not stop the sessions, they will continue even further after bankruptcy and in fact the public will not understand what this is about. My only thesis is, and I'm sure everyone should make such a declaration: I have absolutely no interest in what is happening in CCB.. personal, or family, or anyone else, and my thesis is that society needs to understand what is going on. And that's why, Mr. Zablyanov, there's an international firm that specializes in telling us where the money is. Because the DPS bill says who the depositories are. Yeah, well, we'll see them, by the way, they're limited only in those who, anyway, file declarations and say that they have all of us, that we have funds in a bank, will now specify which bank they are in. However, this does not answer the question: where is the money? Because whoever put money in the bank didn't drain it. So it's our job in this parliament to solve the KTB case so that it doesn't happen again. And if there is to be changes in the legislation, which is obviously not perfect, changes in the way of decision-making in BNB and in the Bulgarian National Assembly should be made. This should best be done according to the example that is being done and already has experience in a number of European countries. Therefore, we at the ABB were the first to ask the European Banking Authority to come and under its supervision to start doing the actions from now on. It is not for him to check whether banking supervision works, as the BNB understands it, but in this particular case to see what the actions are and to say: it is correct, it is not correct, it is correct, it is advisable, according to the European standard. I think that from now on, too, in consultation with the European Banking Authority, we should do this thing. One more thing for the finale. [[(Reply with microphones turned off by President Tsetska Tsacheva:]] I'm graduating. The only thing we decide here or it was decided that Bulgaria would enter the European Banking Union. Colleagues, I am one of those who has insisted on entering the European Banking Union, but this does not automatically solve the problems. There it needs to be negotiated, it is now being created, means burdens for the banking system, so let's discuss this issue, let's go in, but let's negotiate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u56	Mrs. Tsacheva, because at first I explained the procedure, maybe two or three minutes will allow you to...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u57	Mr. Siderov the first line, second line, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, third line, Mr. Rumen Gechev, Mr. Martin Dimitrov has a personal explanation.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u58	Mr. Kalfin, you have obviously not disciplined yourself in the European Parliament, as far as we know one minute to speak, and you continue with your style of much talking without saying anything essential. You have stated, however, that I am taking an accent from your long, firm statement that you have no personal interest in KTB. Only recently there has been some information on some sites that you didn't, but your boss Mr. Parvanov had 80 million people planted at KTB. Is this a reason for your passionate desire to save this bank because your boss, your boss, the former President of Bulgaria Georgi Parvanov had 80 million, for which he should answer how. My colleagues and I have calculated that if he collects his presidential salary, which is over BGN 5000, it takes 1100 years to collect that amount. [[Noise and lines.]] If you can answer this question, I will be very pleased, as will the entire Bulgarian society. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u59	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Second line: Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kalfin, in your procedure and as a reply, in support of what you have said, I would also like to address all representatives of the Bulgarian National Bank, who are in the Chamber, to appeal to you to come and clearly and categorically from this tribune to state: is there, or is there no possibility that CCB and the Bank of Victoria will be healed? Today is October 31st. According to the report and this book you presented here, before us, it is clearly and categorically written that today is the deadline to account for the impairments that will show positive or negative value; shouldn't, or shouldn't, the bank's license be revoked; should it be declared bankrupt or not? It's not us here in this room who have to say it. You have to say it. "Bulgarian National Bank, as the independent body. If this bank today, to everything that's accounted for... [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] As an independent body, yes, as they replicate. If all the accounting operations that need to be completed today prove that this bank needs to be declared bankrupt, I do not see what we have to debate here anymore. Come on, file it, and if that's the case, let's end this debate. Ask this topic clearly and categorically, stop hiding and do not give a clear and specific answer. And from now on, you and I, honourable Members, the only thing that we need to decide and do here in this House is, if necessary, to adopt such legislative amendments which will enable the Bulgarian citizens who have deposits in this bank, I mean, to receive their funds as guaranteed by both the Bulgarian law and the European directives. Everything else is demagogy and populism. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u61	Third line, Mr. Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u62	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Kalfin! Let's make one thing clear. The issue is not only in the word, although the vote was an block, not on changes and on individual points. The problem is, let the Bulgarian citizens also know, to change the Law on Credit Institutions, so that whenever any bank has one lev, or ten million, or one billion negative capital, we oblige the Bulgarian National Bank to heal it by law. [[Noise and lines.]] The Monetary Council prohibits the Bulgarian National Bank from healing anything. You mean who needs to heal the banks? The budget of the Republic of Bulgaria must be restored. Colleagues from GERB, DPS and ABB want to hang the banking system on the Bulgarian taxpayer. I want to be clear to the Bulgarian viewers and the parliamentarians what this is about. This is absolutely unacceptable, as it means even in a very simple language the following recognition: "Dear, if there are such criminal elements in the banking system, if there is a steal in peace! By stealing the money, the Bulgarian people are behind you and will pay. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u63	It's a hole, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I'm glad Mr. Siderov showed attention to what I'm saying. He only heard one thing, he's still fine. [[Radio.]] Mr. Siderov, I didn't use the word "save the bank," you used it. All the words I carefully picked were talking about information about what happened at KTB. To save you, you mentioned. As for various writings in the newspapers: at my address, I can tell you, but what you mentioned and President Parvanov, he has not once said that this is a complete lie. If that's what you're building politics on, be alive and well! Mr. Gechev, first of all, these proposals have not been voted on. You were on the committee yesterday, you must remember from yesterday to today. The first, second and fourth points were voted together, and the third point in which these proposals were held was voted separately. And that's true! If you've forgotten, ask the colleagues who were there. Secondly, you created a coalition that wants to save banks with government money, and that is not what the text says. The text says that we want to know before taking an action what is the effect on the economy and the state budget. Then I'll tell you, Mr. Gechev, that you don't want the public to know what happened at KTB and what effect it has on the economy. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u65	Personal explanation of Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kalfin provoked me, although against the background of Mr. Gechev's statement, whose time the most banks in Bulgaria were bankrupt, this statement did not make such an impression, but still. Mr. Kalfin, I'm telling you, because you're a competent man, you'll understand and I trust you'll change your position when you hear me. When the state gives a bank guarantee to the Fund, there is no cash, there is no money movement, so it is the cheapest option. You say there's no money movement, Mr. Kalfin. This is one factual point which I hope that when you hear this opinion, you will change your opinion. There is one more, however, where you are already making a factual error. At the moment when you make assignments and intercepts, you realize immediately, now unwarranted deposits. Then, when there are syndics, in these operations will be involved who? Only guaranteed deposits. [[Reply from the National Representative Ivaylo Kalfin.]] That's right! If, Mr. Kalfin, in this you do not see a significant difference, from here on you should see it, because there is a direct departure to the Fund at the moment from these assignments and intercepts that are being realized. That is, future syndics can limit transactions to transactions of such order, which I am convinced you did not deliberately miss in your speech. That is why we in the Reformation Bloc argue that the most advantageous option for the state is to guarantee the Deposit Guarantee Fund, where there is no money movement at all. There's no movement of any money! In addition, the Fund has its own revenue every year in the way it was created and will raise money, also in the bankruptcy procedure itself, so that the State will not have to give any money to save this bank. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u67	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, according to art. 100, para. 1 The National Assembly shall hear questions, questions and answers on them in the last three hours of the meeting every Friday, unless it decides otherwise. After consulting the parliamentary groups, the leadership of today's plenary session proposes to adopt a decision to proceed with the discussion and debates on this point until the vote on the draft decision. If this happens before 2:00 p.m., when the end of the plenary session, we will continue with Parliamentary control. If the time does not reach 14.00, it will be extended accordingly to the vote on the point. I ask you to vote on this procedural proposal. Vote 172 MPs: 159, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Siderov, you asked for a procedure. [[Reply from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] There's no personal explanation by line since you replicated the MP. It's normal in the back of your head to address you, but if you want a procedure, I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u68	My procedure is for you to re-vote the last vote because I hope that common sense will still prevail and not waste all parliamentary time today on this first day of parliament, because so far we have dealt with formalities, with the election of committees, chairman and so on. In fact, this is the first session of the Forty-third National Assembly. What does it do? With the rescue, Mr. Kalfin, the bank. [[Reply from the National Representative Ivaylo Kalfin.]] Yeah, that's exactly what you're doing, because I listen very well. You said you agreed. You have already agreed with GERB, as you had agreed for your room before the negotiations for the rooms began. [[Noise, excitement and lines from GERB.]] Now you have agreed to support them because Mr. Parvanov and Mr. Borisov are old friends, they have declared it. That's clear to everyone! I listened very carefully. You agree with what? Here it has already been said, it has been argued wonderfully "You want from now on to give indulgence to any banker who falls below the capital permissible limit and he does what he wants and the BNB to finance it. With whose money? With our money.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u69	This is not a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u70	We at Ataka do not agree. So admit it, tell yourself what you want to do, and don't twist, because this is your old style, so you were as foreign minister and for this reason Bulgaria's foreign policy went far down the cliff. I suggest we reschedule the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u71	I get it. I am re-voting the proposal for a decision to extend the debate to the vote on the decisions on this point. Please, voting mode. Vote 172 MPs: 161 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Iskrov made a request, a desire to answer the questions. So far, the following MPs have been recorded for speech under the order of the application: Kiril Tsochev, Boyko Borisov, Radan Kanev, Mr. Bajraktarov. Mr. Iskrov, you have the floor, as I believe that your statement will guide the colleagues who have expressed their willingness to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for inviting me to be here with my colleagues from the Governing Council and to have the opportunity directly from the highest tribune of the Republic of Bulgaria to present to you our activities regarding the KTB case, as we call it, as well as our influence on this process, the decisions taken, the assessments made accordingly and, of course, what is to come from here. We didn't hide here said Mrs. Pavlova, thank you for the business tone, so I asked for the floor, we never hid, we just don't like to go around the studios, but we like to talk to the institutions that are responsible, as is the National Assembly. We didn't ask for a change in the law. I'll take a reference to these four points that are proposed here. This is not our idea and I will even inform you of the legislation of the European Union, as you are risking entering a colony. Gentlemen Gechev and Dimitrov are right in their speeches. The report that we have tabled and sits before you, I do not think that I should repeat it, as it is very very detailed - 60 pages, describes clearly in chronological order everything that is done by the Central Bank along with the reasons for our decisions. We have also given the accounts of the Bank of Victoria and KTB Bank in practice the problem of KTB Bank in order to be clear and what is reported to Bank supervision at this time. I don't want to miss the case to point out that the entire Board of Directors is here without Mr. Stattev for good reasons. Mr. Gunev himself has been on leave since 18 June 2014 due to the investigation that is ongoing. But it is also here today, and it was Wednesday before the Temporary Committee of inquiry, so that it can provide answers on supervisory issues, as you know that our law is special, specific to the 28 member states and these are all functions within the framework of operational supervision, within one position and the respective directorates, officials and so on. So I thanked him Wednesday, thank him now. Otherwise, Mrs. Cordovska is also here and may answer questions from the nature of banking supervision after the 18th and so far. In addition to the informative role of the report, we have also recorded in the end, as we expected from the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance and from the National Assembly to hear your will of the High Representative of the People, whether you believe that the Bulgarian National Bank should continue in accordance with the current legislation, as was the decision before the Head of State on 14 July 2014 by the then parliamentary leaders of the Prime Minister, Finance Minister, Governor, Vice-President, and, of course, Mr. President himself, or you believe that it is necessary despite the BNB Act, despite the European legislation to change something in it and therefore to give some other opportunity to continue this already quite long time is not six months, but four months, a period within which these two banks are placed under special supervision. We do not discuss the Bank of Victoria, as this is the least of our problems, but it is important to note that the decision on Victoria is following the decision on the Corporate Commercial Bank. There is no way, as long as we negotiate with investors and we don't know what to do with KTB, to make decisions regarding their asset, a 100% CTB asset. If we take away KTB's license, I will soon say the steps, we will probably start to deal more actively with the issue of Commercial Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u73	Maybe he can't get better or he can't get better?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u74	Mrs. Pavlova, I will answer all questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u75	What's the price of one and the other?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u76	I'll answer all the questions. In the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance, this was the problem that it became an interrogation for four hours and we could not get to what you are saying right now, and we were surprised by a draft solution in the last five minutes, where you know how for a reason, I think, we reacted. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will not mark again what has happened. All I'm saying is that the BNB never ran away from responsibility, never wanted to transfer BNB's problems to someone else's head. The BNB was looking for cooperation. Where she had no mandate for any action, she sought assistance from a government, sought assistance from parliamentary represented forces to resolve the matter. There, I repeat once again, where she didn't have such a mandate! Otherwise, Mr Kalfin, we know very well the legislation of the European Union. The Bulgarian National Bank, I said it in the Commission, together with the Swedish Central Bank and Polish, are one of the most active in signing the new directives, decisions, regulations and so on. Mrs. Cordovska can talk to you here for eight hours on these issues, not to waste the time of the MPs. But not everything is in our legislation. Nowhere is a bank in the European Union anywhere, including America, where the Federal Reserve has been pouring money to this day's press money, has decided to capitalize and open banks without legislative decisions. You remember the Art Program, which Mr Sarkozy personally had to go to Washington to convince Republican Bush how banks would be nationalised. In the end, it turned out that there was no other way and it went through a Congressional decision. You remember all these decisions of the national parliaments and national meetings of the countries of the European Union. A central bank cannot treat commercial banks, a central bank cannot provide capital, a central bank cannot provide liquidity even in countries if the bank is bankrupt and has negative capital.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u77	Creditor from the last instance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u78	A last resort lender has very strict rules in the European Union and the creditor of the last instance under art. 33, Mr. Moskovski, according to our law, in this case the Bulgarian National Bank is extremely limited and we have also described this in this yellow review book.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u79	Read your art. 112...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u80	As a result of all these actions and as a result of the very long delayed audit assessments, I listened to this yesterday in Mr. Glauchev's speeches, he is right, but was answered in advance in the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance, these are not regular audits. Specifically, the three managing partners of the three companies on Wednesday came with their faces, with their reputation and said what these analyses were. These analyses of assets and liabilities are to serve the Quaestors of the Corporate Commercial Bank to assess the actual state of the assets as of June 30, updated on July 30, the last possible date so that it is known that this is what I have to answer to Mrs. Pavlova. Does it make sense for the bank to be healed, is there at all a bank such an animal there, or does there not? And that's what they did.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u81	And what's the answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u82	I'll give you an answer. That's what they did.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u83	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u84	So I don't want to get into discussions on methodology. That was discussed. All of the above events, I mean, are documented, what we're talking about, is in the book. One part of this documentation, of course, due to the fact of open violations, I do not want to use another word, is sent to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. Before I finally say what they have established and what we propose, I would like to say what I have said to your colleagues in the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. It's a myth that the Central Bank was running from a market decision. There is no Central Bank, there is no government that does not want, or the Finance Minister can confirm it, the private shareholder to cover his own money. The question is what is the quality of the private shareholder in this case, what are his options, respectively, if not him, are there others who would replace him. For this reason, we also put a chapter in the book in which we describe from the first day of July 10th, I think it was the first meeting in the Council of Ministers, with a high delegation, diplomatic, with representatives of the state, of Oman and of Oman's so-called Reserve Fund, so to this day, I will introduce you to the last offer that Mrs. Pavlova insists on, and it will probably prejudge, as you say, your debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u85	I want you to tell me if it's accounted for and how much is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u86	On 20 October, the Quaestors submitted the auditors' reports to the 21st Governing Council, as you have already been informed, gathered and commissioned the auditors by 31st, today, to take the corresponding accounting records, which need to be taken under the Accounting Act based on valuations, so that the impairments that were established by audit firms, amounting to 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, to be accounted for and based on them to be drawn up on the supervisory accounts. By the way, I forgot to mention that one of the Quaestors is also here, Mr. Lutov is sitting upstairs if you wish, he can enter the room and also give answers to your questions. We will probably get these reports within the next few days, as is the practice. You can't expect them to be transferred to the Central Bank immediately. That's a lot of hard work. The analysis itself of each of the companies is of the order of so many when we looked at them on the Board of Directors. What's next? I would like to take account of the proposal you have made as a temporary committee on budget and finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u87	Is it negative equity or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u88	It's gotta be negative equity.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u89	So we're gonna go bankrupt? Answer me specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u90	Based on what was established by the auditors, I answer, Mrs. Pavlova...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u91	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u92	... The Bulgarian National Bank expects that the capital will be not just negative but very negative. But you have to follow the appropriate procedure and when...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u93	Is it the only solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u94	...and when this procedure is completed, then you will follow the following steps.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u95	You'll declare the bank bankrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u96	Why aren't you making a remark?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u97	The Bulgarian National Bank is obliged to withdraw the license of Corporate Commercial Bank, which will probably have negative capital on the basis of the estimates expected; BNB is obliged to request the competent court to open insolvency proceedings; within 20 working days from the date of the decision to withdraw the bank's Deposit Guarantee Fund starts paying the guaranteed amount of deposits. We were surprised to hear from you on Wednesday because you asked us very strongly, and we expected to hear from you whether you felt the legislation needed to be amended. I told you that we cannot answer the question: would we support an extension of this deadline? Now I tell you one to one: on the basis of and on the offer, as they call it in the media, I do not know how these offers run out, but after it has expired, in bTV I think it has been commented this morning, and at the request of Mrs. Stoyanova I will introduce you to the main parameters of the letter of intent of the so-called "consortium." So we consider on the basis of what has been assumed that any further delay creates really, what Mr. Dimitrov said, an opportunity only to reduce the mass of bankruptcy, that is, for continuing sessions... [[Reply from BSP LB.]] And Mr. Gechev, forgive me, Mr. Gechev. ...continuation of disposals, intercepts, which will damage the Deposit Guarantee Fund, that is to say, all of us. I want to correct Mr. Kalfin right away, it is not true that when a trade union is appointed, they can continue. No, it's not like that. From the date of bankruptcy, intercepts can no longer be made, since then the union will also have to go to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office and write why they do these things. I promised Mrs. Stoyanova a few words, and Mrs. Pavlova. Indeed, yesterday, we received a letter of intent from the EPIC, the Jem Corp and the State General Reserve Fund of Oman. If you want me to tell you, listen to me if you want, I can sit down. [[Replying from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u98	Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u99	And this is described in the book that during all these months this group has been constantly changing. The last group is one of these three companies. I would also like to say that we do not question the Sultan of Oman's State Reserve Fund and always in our public communications, and now I do, we separate them from what has been done by majority owners and management, which is evidently seen from these reports. They were a passive investor, probably and they did not know much of the things that happened at the Bank. Accordingly, we negotiate directly and calmly with them because it is an investor who has already passed the so-called... [[English expression used]] of the Central Bank, i.e. a test of suitability, and we know it. I would also like to draw attention: if you decide that we should continue talking, you should decide to continue. [[SIGHS]] No, we will not decide; if you decide, we will continue the talks with this consortium by extending the deadline under art. 36 of the Credit Institutions Act. Keep in mind that EPIK and Jem Corp are companies that we have not explored from this point of view. Bank supervision will never sign, in this case acting as Mrs. Kordovska, to give permission without knowing who's sitting in the back, who gave the money there, who's pulling the strings, who's... [[English expression used]] the final owner of the capital. I also want you to keep it in mind for your decision, as this will be a slightly longer period. It can't be expected that even theoretically, and they're not offering this thing to transfer $2 billion tomorrow. EUR in the Central Bank, we will immediately print this new shareholder, the participation of this new shareholder. Mrs. Pavlova, the letter received explicitly states that it does not represent a legally binding proposal either from the consortium or from the participants in it. The letter is not attached to documents and information on the basis of which it can be established that "Jem Corp" and "EPIC" meet, as I have just said, the requirements for reliability and suitability under the provisions of the Credit Institutions Act. These data are sent to the attention of the Prime Minister, to the attention of the Finance Minister and to the attention of the Bulgarian National Bank. Although it is not legally binding the offer, the letter clearly states that the stated intentions to reorganise CCB include State aid, which is also very important, and commitments for legislative changes. Proposals for specific instruments for granting such aid are also mentioned. What they want, firstly, is government involvement with 2.3 billion. lv. for the capital increase through a company to be established between them and the government on the principle of 50:50, not even 51 for the government The participation of the consortium in the investor company is proposed to be primarily through the use of assets that the consortium intends to receive from [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] While the State's participation is requested to take the form of a cash contribution. An extension of the restriction on access to a deposit by the guaranteed depositors is requested until the proposed scheme for an organisation proposed by the consortium is implemented. That's for sure. Thirdly, non-garant investors must be forced by a corresponding legislative decision to accept a reduction in their claims, not specifying by how much at this stage. This reduction may be less if the depositor agrees to wait 3-4 years. Upon acceptance of a greater reduction against payment, this payment should immediately be made with Bulgarian government securities, without indicating who will provide these government securities. Fourth, bondholders and all other creditors are proposed to be treated in the same way as non-garant investors. Fifthly, they propose to cancel all commercial transactions between clients of the Bank, which took place after it was placed under special supervision, that is 20 June this year. The sixth, very interesting condition, that the shortage of capital should also be discussed with the management that has been removed, that is, not with the regulator, which must say how much regulatory capital is, such as in each country a member of the European Union, but with the colleagues who have been removed, who are probably responsible for the state to which the Bank has been brought. In this regard, to ensure the right to withdraw capital, irrespective of any additional regulatory considerations. The Bank's restructuring costs, including those which the consortium's participants have carried out since 20 June.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Fifty percent for them, 50% for the state. We don't know what costs we're talking about. It is also very interesting that, in so far as the proposals deviate from the State aid rules laid down in the European Union, the government will undertake to negotiate such exceptions. They themselves admit that much of their offer, or letter to me, does not meet certain requirements of European legislation and will have to negotiate the government. These proposals, which we discussed last night with our colleagues and this morning, before we came here, are not based on market principles, which the lawyers have been talking about since the beginning of special supervision. State aid is required to amount significantly greater than what the State would have provided in the form of a loan to fill the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks. The proposal contains many instruments that are contrary to the Bulgarian law and that of the European Union. It requires a continuing delay in the payment of the guaranteed deposits contrary to the commitment of the Bulgarian government made on October 15th. You know that we have worked together with the Ministry of Finance, which was approved by the government and presented to the European Commission. This has to do with point two of the Project Decision that you will be looking at in a moment. It doesn't make any sense to look for a bank recovery if you're going to go right away and they're right in paying off the deposits. What would this healed bank be if 90% of its liability in the future would be a deposit from the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks? The reorganization of the CCB on proposals in the letter of intention plan believes that it will involve more public resources than the approach of strictly following current legislation, as well as making commitments to legislative and other actions to deviate from existing European norms. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to draw attention to the attention of my fellow Members to point out to you that this is the first, in particular, letter of commitments. There were a lot of interpretations in the media. We've never had a letter like that before. They wanted us to keep it confidential at this point. We agreed, but the situation is that this is such a burning issue and by the way we do not have legally binding confidentiality documents and I would not sign such documents, as people are ready to eat us for the fourth month waiting for the money and we cannot hide these things, and we cannot hide them from you. Thank you Mrs. Stoyanova for asking me to introduce you to this offer. However, since the letter had already come out in some way and commented in bTV by a stranger to me, as we have also spoken it here, it is a policy of the Central Bank, we will upload it as soon as we are finished here in Parliament, on the website of the Bulgarian National Bank, so that our colleagues can get acquainted with it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to this letter and since we are neither executive, even less legislative, which ultimately decides the legislation, I have sent a letter this morning to Mr. Minister Porozhanov, which, eventually, if you decide to work on these issues at all, for example, if you accept the famous item. 3 of this decision that has been tabled, however, we need to know together with it, so that he, for example, immediately launches perhaps some delegation, goes to the European Commission, see if this thing is even applicable. And here I answer the question, it is also not known, but according to the legislation in force not only ours, but also European legislation that has sovereignty, we can accept anything here with you, to consult, but when it is contrary to a Member of a European Union norm, European legislation is applied! It is not easy not to say it is impossible to heal a bank with negative capital. And this is as on the resolution directive, which has its instruments and we have discussed it, we are yet to submit a bill to you, of course, the government will submit it, but we are in a working group with them, with the Ministry of Finance, for this directive by the end of the year. However, this directive does refer to banks that are threatened but not which have such a serious negative capital adequacy. This is also not possible under the S&D, under the other directive, which is for capital requirements, as it is then said that the licence must be revoked. Finally, Madam President, which will be very important for the Members of the National Assembly, I would like to say that all decisions, in order for them to be legal, must, however, once again, comply with European Union law. Whether or not we liked it here at the time, from this tribune, Mr. Muravei Radev, a man I respect was indignant. What is this European law, he says, you are so independent?............................................... The Bulgarian National Bank, the European Central Bank, no central bank of the European Union may ask and receive instructions from any Community body, including governments and national parliaments! [[Then what are you doing here?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] So I ask you, whatever is decided, as we are not an executive, and we are an extremely predictable partner of the state, we will participate, of course, if there is something to be written, if there is something to be discussed, but it is not right to record: [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u100	Please, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u101	I can also quote you on which decisions of the European Union contradicts the Council of Europe. We've got people here who've been sitting on this kind of advice. It also contradicts the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So I ask that everything be agreed before then. And the other thing, when it comes to legislative initiatives concerning the functioning of the financial markets, here in the new parliamentary group there is a chief negotiator and a former commissioner, can confirm it, keep these things in mind. When it comes to changes, they should always be sent for coordination, for the European Central Bank's UPN, so that the European Central Bank, whatever you decide here, must be sent, that is known by the longer-term MPs, that is known by the Legal Directorate. To Mrs Tsacheva, whatever is decided must be sent to the European Central Bank for an opinion in order to be able to assess, if there is a breach, whether it is essential to refer to the Commission and to initiate a procedure, or whether it is minor and may not refer to the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the House. If you decide on other matters, here are all your colleagues, I'm here, we can answer additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u102	For a speech from the Parliamentary Group of GERB has the floor Mr. Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u103	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the inaction of BNB Bank, if we read the definition of guilt, the law, it either acts or does nothing, but you are always guilty! I've been talking to a lot of experts since this morning, and I've actually seen this decision that the Temporary Budget Commission is proposing. The third point of the dispute is very clearly recorded in art. 121 of the Credit Institutions Act. And, Mr. Iskrov, in this fragile peace that there is between the political parties for normal work in Parliament, you want us to take on responsibilities that are not ours at all. Article 121 says: Art. 121a. (1) The Bulgarian National Bank shall draw up a plan for controlled restructuring of each bank authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, which may be applied if the bank is in financial difficulties. Six months, where is this plan, how did you implement it, you have to tell us that?! I am far from agreeing with one leader or another, but in fact in practice in the speeches of all the people I have heard here and Mr. Siderov, and Gechev, Martin Dimitrov, our good desire to give some more time, to be able to and those people who are not guaranteed their deposits to take their money, in fact, is an extraordinary waste not only of time. And from this insolent letter that you read from the investor who offers us to create a company where we have the cash as a country and then look for it somewhere this company in Belgrade, somewhere else, then all of us will be guilty. I would like to answer Mr. Siderov's question during the management of GERB was the worst financial and economic crisis in the world. We helped all Bulgarian banks and none of them went bankrupt. And all the banks grew back then! Not one, not two, all of them! But so much so that I don't break the peace! Unfortunately, the sleeping time with the manager's personal guilt, the governor, I don't know if he's guilty and the whole Council, is facing us right now with a situation that Mr. Iskrov didn't want to say how much it would cost in one or the other. Because if this money gets out of the budget, it will influence Bulgaria to be in recession for five years. I don't know if there's a party here that wants to rule in recession. Mr. Gechev is also right. If we accept t. 3 as it is written, which, believe me, Mr. Gechev, it has been done, because with Menda Stoyanova until now and I have argued, are only good intentions to ensure the depositors, but I cannot fail to say that you are right. In fact, we, by guaranteeing the depositors, make a super-comfort life for the bankers who drive their yachts, build their houses, and like, not using obscene words, we take out the money and save the banks. And you, since 1996, know what it means when banks go down! It's a huge problem! And right now, we're taking in this kind of t. 3, we will create exactly this precedent to ensure that some successful people based on budget money. If they have succeeded, the banks will go forward, let them develop and manage them as they should, so Mr. Gechev is right in this case. And Mr. Kalfin is right, because by not supporting certain initiatives, a large part of the economy is going to go up in smoke. And all of this is due to this inaction, guilty, for months, absolutely guilty! Because if BNB Bank were in place, her supervision, that wouldn't have happened. And because Minister Chobanov was good. If it was Djankov, that wouldn't have happened. [[Laughter and excitement. Applause by GERB.]] Djankov wouldn't let them do this thing, be sure! Tsvetanov wouldn't have let the gendarmerie cars in front of the banks. But the financial stability you see now is what is more than 3% deficit. The experiment wasn't successful! So now I'm going to assemble our parliamentary group and propose or something. 3 to completely drop out, or to sit down and look for any such solution with the financiers, which still... By morning, I had some hope that there was a chance that the bank would heal. From what Mr. Iskrov read now, and it didn't accidentally wake up the laughter not only on the left, but also on the right side of the room, they actually offered us to take 2.5 billion out of the budget, but we still have them at the Guarantee Fund. We can start paying back the way it is by law. To comply with the current law, the guilty to bear responsibility, and then, if anyone wants to come, to buy assets, there are a bunch of events that allow it. So our good intentions can actually create greater ugliness in the future. That is what I can say to colleagues from GERB. After the break, we'll come up with a solution, but I'd still like to hear from you. Thank you, Madam President. Thanks, guys, for the attitude. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u104	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, it's after 11:30. I'm calling a 30-minute recess at 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u105	Let's move on. Mr. Kiril Tsochev signed up for a speech before the break. Here you go, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My time is short, as our parliamentary group chairman is speaking and ate some of my time. So I'll be brief. I am speaking in my speech from last night's debate on the update of the 2014 budget, which provides for an increase in the debt limit to 4.5 billion. lv. The main reason is CTB. Therefore, I will propose two options with questions to BNB. The first option is without any legal changes, art. 109 of the Law on Credit Institutions "Separation of Bad Credits and Guaranteed Credits in CCB and Over-Governed Credits and Good Credits in the Bank "Victoria". There is no need to borrow with the exception of guarantees. Here my question is because we don't have any information on these cededes that are being carried out, the good wallet where it's going and whether or not that's where we're making the assignments. We need to be given data. The second option is the recovery of the bank's activities, the liquidation of the shares, the increase in the capital of the bank, the provision of the shares of the Guarantee Fund, under art. 54, para. 24 of the Public Finance Act, the Minister of Finance scored up to 1 billion. lv. on deposit in the bank for interest, the Fund is starting to act. The advantage in this case is that the Fund remains with funds of the order of 1 billion. 200 million. lv. A disadvantage is that the case of June 13-17 will be repeated with immediate withdrawal of the loans. The Bank's bankruptcy means huge losses for the economy, as it will block the work of part of the military industrial complex, of the heating and of over 30 municipalities whose accounts are located in the bank. An expensive model, but we have no data on how much the recovery will cost and how much the bank's bankruptcy will cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u107	He just said there's no recovery.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u108	Mr. Tsochev, you have the right to request an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u109	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u110	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. You have the floor for lines. I can't see. Mr. Radan Kanev also signed up before the speaking break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Borisov for his speech. I did it myself. He managed to very clearly say most of the things about point three that I had prepared to say. The question remains for us, but it is not an urgent question why point three should have been included in this draft decision in the first place. And isn't it time to abandon this very long-standing reflex to delay the problems when we face them, especially in this particular case? Reflex to delay leads to very large losses and very large abuses. If the reflex was not about delaying, just so we didn't face the problem first, but it was about delaying to continue the abuse, that is another matter, but I think now the majority of us, if not all of us, are aware that further delay is unacceptable, precisely because the bank's healthy assets are being devalued and reduced very rapidly. And they are an interest in the Fund and in the budget. This means for every client of the Bulgarian banking system and for every Bulgarian taxpayer. So much for point three. On item four, however, I would like to very strongly support the Commission's proposal and strongly object to the position of BSP and Mr. Zablyanov in particular. This is not about again after BNB and after the international auditors to evaluate the assets of the bank. We're talking about an international financial investigation company, the so-called "Forensic Accounting Campanis" an international reputational company to tell us where the money is. Because the money, as my colleague Martin Dimitrov said, does not get lost. There are abuses, there are attempts to cover them. The more time we waste, the more successful this money will be covered. But they are traceable, there are professionals who can carry out this follow-up and collect the necessary evidence for the Bulgarian court, the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the Bulgarian investigative bodies and provide them with them. If we were against point three, it was for one main reason. We don't have to clink, we have to follow the law. It allows this money to be collected. Moreover, Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act allows, after the withdrawal of the bank's license, its restructuring to continue and to seek the possibility to sell it as a whole. Therefore, such a move should not be considered impossible after the withdrawal of the licence. On the contrary, the law in force also provides for this possibility. Let us begin, as we all speak, that legality must be at the heart of our work and at the heart of our lives, to demand that everyone fulfill his obligations by law. This begins with the obligation of the BNB to establish the negative amount of capital, to withdraw the license and withdraw from the process in order to finally enter the Fund for Guarantee of Claims, whose powers were tried to be revoked at the end of the term of office of the past National Assembly. This fund must carry out all actions under Chapter 7 if it believes that this is necessary, but apart from the BNB and the Guarantee Fund, which must implement the bank laws, it must ensure that the Debt Guarantee Fund fulfils the requirements of the Commercial Law and goes on the path of insolvency on the heels of the creditors..... because opening insolvency proceedings against debtors enables their transactions carried out in order to cover up the money and the traces of the money to be in turn brought into court and declared null and void. We should finally apply the Penal Law, because if this robbery ends without convicted persons, we are once again turning deeply into the vicious circle of Bulgarian public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The line is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kanev, I have already explained why we voted in the Temporary Budget Committee. 3, but after your speech, I would like to explain once again to you and the Members of the National Assembly. If the National Assembly had done their job, if the Council of Ministers, together with the BNB, had done their job and had previously transposed the European directive, whose transposition period is 31 December this year, we would not have had this debate. Because in the course of the special supervision, a special supervision of five months would have been implemented and the measures of the European Bank Restructuring Directive would not have gone bankrupt. We have tried at the first possible moment of the new National Assembly, in the situation in which we have been placed, by already issuing the report of the auditors, to give a quick chance to transpose some of the texts so that the bank can recover if possible, if there is a serious investor who wants to do so. That was the point of t. 3. So do not speculate that we had something else in mind about the state to heal and to pour money. Those were our intentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u114	Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kanev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u115	I'm afraid Mrs. Stoyanova's line was to Mr. Borisov, but he's not in the room, so I'll quote him. During the entire supervisory period, and before the start of supervision, there are many possibilities for restructuring under the current legislation, there are many opportunities for resolution under the current legislation. None of them were used. We're at the end of our first week of work here, I'm a bill that changes the possibilities for restructuring, I haven't seen. A bill to partially transpose the new directive, if that's so important, I haven't seen it. The intention of this bank to be healed and restructuring has not been stated once throughout this period. It is not understandable from there on why a new postponement was needed in order to initiate a process that could have started many months ago, but should have started many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mr. Zablyanov, a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u117	Dear colleagues, Mr. Kanev, I regret that I have to repeat once again the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party from here. We do not accept the approach of the Budget Committee to the Bulgarian National Bank. This is Mr. Professor. Gechev explained in depth why we do not accept it. Because it contradicts the principles of institutional construction because the Bulgarian National Bank is such an institution to which the National Assembly cannot tell her who to hire, what to do and who to give money to. This was explained by the manager of BNB, and the group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party shares this position. So I don't see what you're protecting. The second thing I want to say. The Reformation Block referred to 1996. Dear colleagues were then bankrupt, I believe, at the second stage nine banks, if I am not mistaken. None of the politicians then, including Mr. Ivan Kostov, declared themselves a delay, a rescue and so on, and approached according to the actual situation and the law. What happened in those 15 years between 1996 and now, tell me that here you are wondering what to do to avoid exactly the market approach? [[Replications from the Reformation Block.]] The bankruptcy is the most markety of all approaches.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u118	Mr. Zablyanov, where is the personal explanation in what you are exposing?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u119	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u120	Next up, Mr. Bayraktarov signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, our task here, first of all, is to discuss the report which the Bulgarian National Bank presented to us with a volume of 61 pages. As a former bank professor, if my student had presented me with such a report, I would have written him three on the rails. I'm saying my personal assessment. Perhaps the most important thing in this report is written on page 1. 23 with a small and hard to read font that the BNB is not a party to the contract with the auditors. In other words, the BNB tells you: "Watch your work, we will not give you any information. The same BNB, honourable Members, is trying today in a very unpleasant and incorrect way to get all of us I will try not to use specialized terminology so that I can be understood by people who do not understand banking and, of course, by viewers. Dear colleagues, what does it mean to declare the bank in bankruptcy or as more popular is said in bankruptcy? First of all, this means that we can legally exempt the Bulgarian National Bank and its management from liability because according to art. 23 of the Deposit Guarantee Act, now all this deposit repayment activity is covered by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Which of you wants here today to release the BNB for its action or inaction during all these not five months, all these twelve years? Dear colleagues, in his report BNB today tells us: "Dear ladies and gentlemen, twelve years in front of our eyes is developing a pyramid and we were blind, and we did not see that this pyramid is developing against the background of the Financial Investigation Directorate, against the background of the Financial Supervision Commission, on a Credit Registry describing all the borrowers and the companies that receive it. And there's no problem in tracking down the activities of this firm. Is it a hollow firm, even, I would say, if these companies were seriously drained VAT, for example? Moreover, honourable Members. This trap is not only based on this procedure to relieve the management of BNB of responsibility. This trap doesn't solve the problem of the depositors. Here I address the left because you have passed this Deposit Guarantee Act and this article. 23 in its depraved form. [[BSP LB.]] What do I want to tell you? This law and art. 23, colleagues, regulates the following. It regulates the procedure in which the payment of guaranteed deposits should begin. It is, in simple terms, twenty days and an opportunity to extend another ten days. However, I ask you why by chance in this article. 23 does not appear within what time does the payment of these guaranteed deposits have to be completed? Somebody answer me? In other words, the fund can pay off these deposits to people for 100 years each and has not broken the law. In other words, in no way do we solve the issue of the depositors.. those honest depositors who made the money honestly, put it in. Because to put that money in this bank... Each of you knows that a bank exists on one principle and it is called trust. First of all, this trust was backed up with state money, because we all know that the state kept some serious funds there and it is normal for the Bulgarian citizen, knowing that the state keeps his money there and that he should put it there. There's nothing wrong with that. However, somewhere you could read in this report that on June 20, there is no way I should use a special term, what were the values of the waiters in the figure money? Someone tell you in this report that the BNB has failed to fulfil its obligation, if the bank is in difficulty, to immediately call the shareholders of this bank. 80. If I'm wrong, correct me. Because the bank didn't take that action. Why? Should I remind Mr. Iskrov now that this same case was held in 2011 with another bank? There was something scarier, there were stolen deposits of the depositors. Third of July 2011, I have closed the journalistic investigation. Six months later, all the media went off. Turns out these stolen deposits were paid to artists, singers, thugs, and I don't know what. Bank supervision was silent. The D.A.'s office, too. And I'm asking you today, colleagues, what is the right decision? Yes, in no case should we damage the budget with public funds. In fact, we do not damage the budget, we damage the Bulgarian taxpayers. By the way, you should know clearly and accurately that if it comes to declaring the bank in bankruptcy, the fund has an instrument for collecting additional funds. Take a look at what's going on from here on out! It can raise these additional funds by requesting a pre-payment of contributions from banks to this fund. In other words, we will immediately load the Bulgarian honest borrowers with a higher interest rate on the loans received by them. Even more simply, we will no longer talk about saving 12% of the Bulgarian economy, but we will probably talk about about about 30% already. The Bulgarian business is so weak at high interest rates on loans. Here the gentlemen on the left are talking to me about 1996-1997. Your memory seems to be short, but I will remind you who was the chairman of the Bank's consolidation committee. By the way, you should know, fellow Members, that today the situation is no different from the one with 1996-1997. The Bulgarian National Bank is currently printing shock money on two public contracts. They're a fact. Any one of you can check them out. Two hundred million denominations. Any of you know what the total value of these 200 million denominations is... 5 billion, 10 billion, 30 billion? The Monetary Council or known more to the general public as the Currency Board has been questioned. No one knows what the value of monetary gold is, which should guarantee the course of the euro, no one knows what the value of the Currency Reserve is. I say no one knows, because we are all witnesses here today that even BNB has not seen that a pyramid exists for twelve years. That I should trust the BNB now for the reports it publishes. Because you are not so naive people to believe that the BNB wants punctual printing of money, because there are banknotes that are damaged and should be pulled out of circulation. Gentlemen, 10 billion. 800 million. lv. is the money in circulation. Are you all going to change that something doesn't sound right to me? At the very least, you sound improbable. Colleagues, I know that maybe today's decision isn't right, I know we've been put... [[The President signals that time is running out.]] Just three sentences and I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u122	Ask for a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u123	If I may, I'd like to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u124	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u125	I know that most of us here have no responsibility, but unfortunately, we have this responsibility. I know that today lies the heavy task of making a very serious decision, which, unfortunately, is not backed up with any information. Because I have to tell you that 2012 the Financial Supervision Commission is referring to the SANS for a patent. Notice, colleagues, a patent to build wind parks on high peaks. This patent was assessed in strange circumstances in three revaluations of 547 million. Then it was listed on the Stock Exchange, and this company, which, by some strange consequence, is linked to one of the main shareholders of this bank, has become the largest public company with capital of more than 2 billion. lv. Then these shares were sold 5 BGN, today the price of these shares is one penny. By the way, this is how you drain a bank. Because the people who bought shares have drawn loans to buy and become shareholders in one other enterprise, which is actually a paper, a hollow enterprise. DANS doesn't have a row of what's going on. I ask today Mr. GNP Manager: Did you receive signals from Financial Intelligence about this pyramid, as you described it in your report? If you've received, what measures have you taken? You, honourable gentlemen of BNB, are telling us today: "Dear citizens, honourable Members of the National Assembly, you cannot believe the certified reports, because every legal person, as is the bank, each year its accounts are certified by graduated and established authorised auditors. So these auditors are also liars. They've also lied to us, respectively, to the Bank's supervision, which turns out to be the case, on documents that have flown from here to there and decided. However, I did not understand which methodology you re-evaluated the assets. In International Accounting Standards there is an International Accounting Standard 16, which obliges the legal person, if there is a sharp change in the value of the assets, to proceed immediately to revaluation. Well, damn it, was this Bank supervision blind, with strong dark glasses, that he couldn't understand that there was an asset devaluation at all, in fact there wasn't at all, or would anyone want to grab some fat assets at a price and we could be accomplices here in this robbery? Who among you knows who is the owner of BTC, the owner of Vivacom, the owner of Bulgartabac? Could these businesses have been purchased with money from this particular bank? And who's supposed to take them for cheap now? Maybe Mrs. Nino knows she was involved once as some manager in BTC?! But there are two faces here that we should ask them. One of them was successful Bulgarian at 33 years old, who turned out to be not participating in any company, but moved with ten guards. I don't know what he's paying their wages with. Well, hasn't anyone thought of these institutions to check out this successful Bulgarian, full-bodied? There's a finance minister... Because the attack, honourable Members, against this bank began precisely through the media related to this successful Bulgarian. Let's say these things. What prompted this attack? In addition to having started through these media, it is supported by a strange decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to announce precisely the Microelectronics Technology Centre in bankruptcy and the introduction of a trade union. In other words, blocking his activities, and most likely draining the assets that are valued, I think, by memory, of about a billion and something.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u126	Mr. Bayraktarov, please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u127	Yeah, I'm graduating. And most importantly: here was Mr. Chobanov, who, after looking smartly at me an hour ago, has already disappeared, to answer what action he has taken as a finance minister to protect the banking system, because today there is a serious question. If what this report describes to us happened at KTB, what is the guarantee that it didn't happen in all the other banks? We have today the responsibility to restore trust in the banking system and to reassure Bulgarian citizens! And most importantly, make such a decision that they are not harmed. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. You have the floor for lines. I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u129	Mr. Chairman, let our time be extended as well. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Probably today's discussion concerns several hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens. It is a good thing that one of the first issues covered by the Forty-third National Assembly is the report presented by the Bulgarian National Bank. I'm going to try to speak more freely and find out what happened here in the discussion. After the statement of the Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian National Bank it became clear that there are no serious investors who are ready to devote the necessary huge funds that can heal and stabilize Corporate Commercial Bank. This proposal contained an invitation to the State to allocate more than 2 billion. BGN, and others, having the assets they will receive, to be accounted for and thus to cover the difference up to this 4 billion. That's the harshest way to put it. After the statement of the President of GERB, I was under the impression that the importers of the draft decision themselves are ready to withdraw the most controversial point, which imposes the obligation of the Bulgarian National Bank to take action when the bank's own capital becomes negative and thus heals the banks. Therefore, I will not dwell on the highly inappropriate proposal contained in the draft decision. However, I call on the parties on this occasion to reconsider, to a large extent, their current policy. They continue to claim that the state is a bad owner, but whenever other bad owners bring things to the point that they will dramatically affect the interests of Bulgarian citizens, they will finally turn to this bad owner of the state to pay all the bills. And they tell us that the state could not provide any guarantees on its economic projects, but, you see, when private individuals develop a business and it has failed, the state must always have something to guarantee them! You're suggesting that we continue on this path. I think before you form the government, it's good to start revising some of your policy if you don't want to crash. Because we do not want this catastrophe to affect the whole of Bulgaria. I'm saying it as an opinion. That is why we continue to hold the President to announce the transcripts of these meetings with the representatives of the political parties, where the problems of the Bulgarian banking system were discussed, including the Corporate Commercial Bank and our position then, in the previous weeks and today, is based on the same principles. Therefore, it is understandable to me, so it can lead to a partial solution to all accumulated problems. Because what credit activity are we talking about when, among these main 138 companies, who practically hold the entire loan portfolio of the discussed bank, half have no own business or is it highly limited and their revenues are generated entirely or predominantly by third parties? We're talking over 3 billion. lv. What is this, if it is not the philosophy that banks can collect money from companies, from citizens and finally distribute it to a limited number of individuals who are inside this bank itself, of course, in most cases, directly through straw people who will take us out of some law and say: let's see who the shareholders are, who the borrowers are. But to the real benefits in many cases we will probably not get, as they are precisely in this intermediate chain or are in some offshore zone and so on. So this is the picture we're dealing with. There's another question we need to ask ourselves that I don't have an answer to, but it's very important. Is it a coincidence that, just after KTB acquires the current bank, Victoria, the Prosecution Office's police are entering the offices of KTB?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u130	Ask your minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u131	No, no, these are the actions of the Prosecutor's Office, which runs the Ministry of Interior and I am asking a question which is also curious from a financial, legal and political point of view. The other questions are about this bank's interest rate policy. As far as I know, long-term interest on total deposits was 7%, at least until the end of spring of this year, when it dropped to 5%. The Bulgarian National Bank is informed, as all banks should do and, notice, for long periods of time Corporate Commercial Bank pays on the underprivileged deposits interest that exceed twice the average for the Bulgarian bank deposit market.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u132	Do we have to do it, the depositors?! There's a bank supervision!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u133	I ask all these questions, yes... And what would happen, to remind those who say: it doesn't matter whether we are in the procedure of special supervision or in the procedure of bankruptcy. The Bankruptcy Act itself........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From the same date, actions and transactions aimed at collecting, negotiating or securing claims against the bank, as well as executions of its monetary obligations, regardless of how they are executed, may not be carried out. Do those who offer us new delays aim to continue this? Because intercepts, disposals and other transactions are continuing at the moment and they can lead to even greater impairment of assets by hundreds of millions, while conscientious citizens are ordered to obtain the guaranteed funds. Therefore, I believe that delaying decisions with some obligation of the National Assembly to pass laws is a ridiculous act which I think has not been done so far. The legislative initiative is of the Council of Ministers or of the individual MPs. And if someone feels that in the next few days until that date at the end of the first week of November something should be proposed and changed, they should do so and Parliament should discuss it very quickly, and not adopt a decision with a wish that contains absolutely nothing. And also to draw attention to the rules of crediting deposits, because today it is said that the Deposit Guarantee Fund is not able to cover all the rights that are equivalent to 100 thousand. Euros. In addition, the Commission notes that the Bank's restructuring plan has not yet been implemented and that the Bank's restructuring plan has not been implemented. This estimate must be made, and then it will probably be that now the funds available in the Fund will almost fully cover the contracts under general conditions, without referring us again to who to raise funds and where to look for them. Furthermore, it is said that if funds in the Fund do not reach, the Fund itself, which I have seen so far, has been doing nothing, as other institutions involved in the case, may decide to raise the banks' contributions in advance for next year. Has anyone asked that question? Or everyone here comes to Parliament and says that Parliament is on the move. The Fund itself may unilaterally decide to increase the amount of this contribution threefold, that is, to ensure that additional funds are sought, we know, and so on, not to list the entire sequence of actions. And now the caretaker government, Mr. Minister, and his prime minister, are offering us huge funds, which we can still spare, just in case, 2 billion. lv. on this subject. However, if we continue like this, there is a danger that we will blow up the Bulgarian banking system because the problem is not the only problem of the Bulgarian banking system. Today we are in front of the test how we will solve this most painful problem and if we do not solve it openly, in principle and without damaging Bulgarian citizens, the risks to our banking system will not be reduced, but will increase significantly. At the end of my speech, I recommend that the importers withdraw the draft decision because it is in most of its points unnecessary, and in the one which was most contested, it is extremely dangerous. I expect no coalition of the guilty financial-political conscience to be formed today to support this project. I'm saying this for a reason, because the boundaries in it don't just go politically. We also propose a draft solution. It can also be a separate point.. depending on what you decide, with a single and clear sentence: The National Assembly accepts for information the report of the Bulgarian National Bank, expressing disapproval of the actions of the Governing Council of BNB on the supervision of the Corporate Commercial Bank. This is the logical finale of today's discussion and let all of the competent authorities continue with these actions, which should ensure the stability of the Bulgarian banking system, ensure that the depositors to the extent in which they must receive their funds in due time and from now on really act in a way that is not corporate, which is not influenced by the political situation, but who defends the Bulgarian interests, respectively the interests of the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens, business and stability of the state institutions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u134	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor for lines. There aren't any. Mr. Rashidov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I didn't mean to make a statement. I rather wanted to see this whole fair. I just want to thank you for obviously separating taxpayers well from depositors. You mean the depositors are not taxpayers. Thank you for that. Rather, it is the depositors who pay taxes for the treasury, because these are not just the ones who pay taxes. Thank you for separating the country from the Bulgarian people. That the state is the whole Bulgarian people! How is it that at some point the money of the state becomes state, and the people who fill the banks, for which there are even BNB, they are some investors?! Secondly, thank you that 6-7 million assets sit for stealing and you are ready to fill with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer, as you are saying to fill 2 billion to pay for someone to collect 6 billion. Is that what you're doing now? What about the rest of the money of the honest Bulgarian taxpayers?! Because next time I'll bring you my contracts with the Bank, you'll see, it's very interesting. As a naive man and an artist I realized that there was no clause in the guaranteed deposits contract, even banks hardly warn, there must be a clause in the contract that is up to 100,000. I didn't know that either. I taught him that in Bulgaria a person should just keep his money somewhere on Seychelles. You taught me! You taught us a lesson today! Well, where does the rest of the honest taxpayers' money go after 100,000? A euro?! And what are you telling me, gentlemen? The rest of the Berquet Versin which king, king! I'd like to learn a lesson from now on. That it's a lesson from Angel, who from Chicago said hello to me. Pa, 10 banks from the First Private Bank, when you started it, it's always a lesson to us! Today, this bank is not only for a lesson, to have a hack like the Bulgarian people...... we taught them to hate those who can produce money to put money in the budget to have for pensions, health care, because there is no one to put it. I can tell you that many people here who we may envy costumes on the Court of Auditors' websites are not good taxpayers, they have no savings. Yesterday I saw some people who willingly explained, rich bankers, that I was the richest among them. Colleagues, to respect the people who pay their taxes every day, to respect their funds because these are the money of the Bulgarian state, de facto the Bulgarian people are the Bulgarian state. How come at one point it's a country and the other is a depositor? I thank you on behalf of the damaged Bulgarians.. they are about 500 thousand with this Bank, thank you for helping really ten people to steal from us. Thanks for the theft. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u136	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Yordan Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is very clear and it has been consistent since the beginning of the crisis with CCB, and there has been a crisis in the banking system at one time with other banks. This position was followed by a number of actions that I will recall now, because there are new colleagues in Parliament and also the viewers they are watching probably do not know. In the course of the election campaign, I realized that a lot of people didn't understand about our actions. Our position is dictated by three principles. Firstly, there should be maximum rapid access by the depositors to their savings, which are guaranteed under the rules of European law, in the case of the European Directive. First of all, we tabled at the end of the last Parliament a proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group - these depositors - to have access to their deposits 60 days after the announcement of the quaestura - if no decision has been taken to withdraw the licence. These 60 days ended on August 21st, the problem would have been solved. It was rejected for procedural reasons. If anyone gets up to replicate me, I'll explain how it might not have been rejected for procedural reasons if it had been adopted previously in the Budget Committee. I will not comment on which parties were absent or who voted against because I do not want to politicize, unlike my other colleagues who spoke before me. The same proposal proposed transparency. To illuminate all deposits, all loans of the persons who occupy senior state positions, because from the beginning of the crisis in KTB is spoken about this bank as a bank of power, and since the power exists, it has had 4-5-6 configurations since its acquisition in 1999, to recall the sale of 11 offshore companies, by the state-owned bank, with the approval of the Bank's consolidation company and the then government, to this day-to-day. In this regard, our proposal was renewed not in any law, as Mr. Stoilov said, where nothing would be seen. If something is not seen, you must do everything possible to see, and if, after doing everything possible, both as an investigation and with international participation, and with the participation of companies that really have great experience in investigating financial flows, then this thing is gone. I know this will take you away from throwing things at my colleagues, including Mr. Peevsky, accusations, but this is our policy and we told you at the end of the previous term, we're telling you now. Everything about the case KTB must become known to the Bulgarian public, so we are submitting this law with Mr. Peevski, signed by our President Mr. Mestan. We are ready to change in it the whole range or add things that will lead to greater transparency and guarantees, because this model really cannot be repeated. Because this model is a criminal model. Because such a hit on the banking system has not been done since the beginning of the transition. Since I'm also involved in financial analysis, I'm going to tell you that the total mass of the 17's devaluations, not the 13's bankrupt banks, is $2.5 billion. This is the total mass of the total cost of all the savings of the Bulgarian citizens "2.5 billion dollars" were they in 1997, and here we have 4 billion if we also take the non-garanted "5.2-5.3 billion." This is a severe economic, financial and reputational blow. The model needs to be made clear. That's the model who! That's the model who, let's untangle it. The DPS offers you, gives you a hand. We've done a bill, let's all join this bill, let's accept it and move on. If this turns out to be an isolated case, if we take all the steps, I think we'll have done our job so it won't happen again. To say one word again about those made without any soil, accusations that the bankruptcy of this bank, I will use this popular word, although it is not yet in actual bankruptcy, started with disclosures in the newspapers about Mr. Peevsky and his mother. That's not true! Newspaper "Capital" and the editions around it as well as the newspaper itself. "Capital" a few days ago confirmed, published the list of all these companies, which we now see in the report of the auditors of connected persons, long before the prosecution took these actions. No one took this investigation seriously then. I'm using the case to congratulate investigators from C. "Capital." All these connected companies, the whole drain mechanism was clearly described in these publications. Who did the D.A.'s investigation start against? Checking the protest network against Mr. Peevski and Mr. Tsvetan Vassilev. The prosecution has launched actions on this signal, according to the prosecution itself. Can Mr. Peevski be simultaneously subject to the inspection and simultaneously subject to the signal? Of course he can't! Then? When we speak from this tribune, we should really step on real facts and not on mythologies. We of the DPS will not tire of repeating and submitting bills and fighting against this phenomenon. When we talk about the backstage, we will talk about facts and names, we will introduce bills, we will require precise and clear action by the authorities that have such rights and obligations above all else. For this reason, I reaffirm once again the strong decision of the parliamentary group to follow this direction. So, to tell Mr. Martin Dimitrov, thank you for supporting the fourth point, it has been submitted to the project by the DPS. Thank you. It really is in this direction to investigate all financial flows from a company that deals with this and has great experience in it to get to the bottom, to get to privatisation and from there to here to see who really who is who. In the direction of transparency, I would like to say, colleagues, because it needs to be heard by both you and the viewers, and to remain in the protocol, we will monitor very carefully from here on the mechanism under which the bankruptcy procedure will be carried out. Dear colleagues, from now on, as Mr. Radan Kanev rightly pointed out and listed them, the Deposit Guarantee Fund is starting to act. He will propose to the court the trade union and he will manage the processes of acquiring the appetizing, as you have said, assets. We have suspicions that the current director of the fund will be waiting and monitoring every action is linked to an economic circle which has its representatives in the Bulgarian Parliament and he is preparing to do so. This round already acquires unguarded deposits at a haircut of 50 and 30%. We have accurate information about this, but guided by the principle of not blaming before there are precise acts and facts, we will do so when it does. I'm just warning you, we'll be watching closely the actions of this fund, one by one! You'll see where the connection is, you'll see who wanted the bankruptcy of KTB, you'll see who organized protests about it and who didn't even think if there was a little market opportunity to do something about the bank. I, as a specialist, claim that nothing can be done in this gigantic theft inside, but nevertheless opportunities had to be given, obviously they were either missed or exhausted. The next direction in which we "in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms" have moved our actions and spoken in the election campaign is to transpose European legislation, to transpose this directive, which allows resolution authorities of such banks, to have restructuring instruments of such banks, and not to the extent that the Bulgarian Parliament is now wondering, if there is a chance for a bank to be restructuring, whether we have enough tools for this and whether there are officials, and whether there is a resolution authority. Yes, Bulgarian legislation was perfect. I have personally been involved in making this legislation since 1997, but it is lags behind. The legislation changes with the terms. How many things have we changed since the beginning of the banking crisis in the world? How much? Too little! And the European legislation is changing and there the dynamics are very great, so the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will also want this to be a transposition of the directives, updating the Bulgarian financial legislation in this direction so that it can meet these challenges. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u138	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, you have the floor for lines. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Tsonev, I was under the impression from your speech that you do not understand the three most important things that are actually being sought by this decision that we are about to vote on. First of all, are small and medium-sized investors and start paying off their deposits, which continues not to happen anymore I don't know which month. Secondly, it is sought to strengthen banking supervision and strengthen its functions so that no more such things happen in Bulgaria. Last but not least, and what you obviously didn't understand most, it's about finding out where the money is. Because the money has gone somewhere, and your bill, which you have here praised us, is exactly what it does not answer. He answers as far as the first borrower in the chain is. However, to whom he has been handing out credits, your law does not foresee revealing itself. There's the money, Mr. Tsonev. This could be understood by the international investigative company designed to deal with this thing. Your bill says about a company that has experience in financial asset operations. Such a company, when I think about it, could also be an Ivan Petrov company, which will obviously not go as far as the money actually has to go and find out where the money went. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u140	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other lines? Mr. Korman Ismailov...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Tsonev, you are an experienced budgeter, there are certainly many laws that are good that you have tabled. But this law I would specifically call after rain a hoodie as many of them. Would you remind us during the last term of the National Assembly who was chair of the Legal Committee, who was chair of the Budget Committee, the Economic Commission, the Energy Commission and so on? Then why didn't you bring in that law? That's where I stop the question. Let me remind you that at the meeting of the Temporary Budget Committee, 4 which I now understand that you have imported and proposed has been further developed and enriched by us. On your proposed law, we abstained with the idea that between first and second reading we will remove precisely those gaps that will make it really work. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u143	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Slavov, I get the impression that you didn't listen to me and because I want to be polite, I probably didn't express myself correctly. I have said what we intend to do with the law that we have brought in, and I have called on all of you to join us in developing it. In my long legislative practice, I know one thing that you can never come up with when you bring in a law that will invent 240 chapters between first and second readings. That is why the technique is given at first and second reading. Get involved, we'll take it. Our wish is to get to the end, to get to who stole the money. I'll tell you here something everyone knows. Not our chairman, Mr. Mestan, his daughter, have consulting contracts with CCB and rent tens of thousands of euros a month. [[Applause from DPS.]] We don't have that worry, Mr. Slavov. We want the truth to come out and we will do everything we can to make it come out and we ask you once again to involve yourself in making the law operational, to make it so that the gaps you see come out. With regard to why we didn't bring in the law then, I think you haven't listened to me again. I explained to you and told you that we then submitted these proposals to both the disclosure of banking secrecy and offshore companies and the financial flows where they were moving. If you look closely at the bill that we have now tabled, you will see that in the Bankruptcy Act we oblige the trade union to hire such a company and it to track everything that the shareholders and administrators of the bank by buying assets, by buying assets and so on and so forth. We don't get away with these wishes of yours. On the contrary, we provoke them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u144	Bravo, bravo! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u145	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Volen Siderov to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, throughout the campaign for these elections, I have been repeating the same thing. It was an appeal to all political forces to say what their most important things are, with which the new National Assembly will start. There were no debates on this election campaign for a reason, because in this way, the main political forces, which are now the main ones in this Parliament, have escaped responsibility, and now they have the task of forming a cabinet, a government. They fled the question of what they would put first when the new National Assembly came. I've called so much that I just have to tell you that I didn't have to call the leaders: tell me what the most important points are! There they are, the attackers! Here they are: first, pensions; second, income; third, ERP; fourth, gold! And so on. They were brought into the Office on the first day. If you during the election campaign had told your constituents that you would start by saving a bank, I want to tell you that the results would be radically different from what we now have. Because that's how you tricked voters into voting for parties that supposedly thought of their people, their society. It turned out that most of these parties came here in this room and began with the task of saving a bank. That was the most important thing to them! It turns out that all these political forces that are now pleading to save the CCB were lobbyists of the banking sector. Except they didn't say that during election meetings, concerts and so on. They spoke other highly pathetic words that promised a stable state, prosperity, Euro-Atlantic values and so on. That's how important it is to tell yourself what you really want to do. I've been talking about it for ten years and I haven't moved from there. We now see that a coalition of rescuers is being formed in this Parliament, which consists of those offering... In fact, let us first summarize today what we have to vote on? We have a proposal that needs to be voted on. It consists of a decision of the National Assembly with four points. The first point is for the Council of Ministers to make legislative changes. We, the highest legislative body in the country, propose to the Council of Ministers to propose legislative changes to us. Ridiculous, full of shit! The second point of this decision, which is put to the vote today, in fact, this is what it is dealing with, does not concern itself with the law which Mr. Tsonev advertises or any other political propaganda of other parties. We're dealing with this decision. It consists of four points. The first one I said, she's ridiculous. The second is for the National Assembly to accept the.... so we are referring to us to adopt amendments. It's absolutely ridiculous! It's like saying we're making a decision to be a National Assembly. Ridiculous! For the third point, it has already become clear that even the leader of the leading political power gave up on it and went to meet..... I do not see it, perhaps to change it already..................................... I do not know............................ I do not know............... In this third point, the National Assembly is actually intended to give indulgence from now on to any bank that falls below its capital permissible limit, to feel calmly "BNB" will insure it, will do so, i.e. the state will do so. That's what the experts have already said, I'm not a bank expert, but I've done a lot of business history and the history of the world, and I know very well that when you talk about saving banks, that means it's on the back of other people, of a huge part of the population that won't be saved. The third point, we said, was controversial, even tomorrow's coalition partners here cannot agree with each other and argue on it. So she's gonna fall. The fourth point is also recommended, wishful thinking, we recommend the People's Bank to do its job, because there is nothing else we can do. So all those points that are being offered to us, Mr. Chairman, for a vote, are ridiculous. They need to drop out, it's already been proposed. Then we, how many hours of 9:00 p.m., have already 4-5 hours, are dealing with something that a priori clearly has to drop out because it's ridiculous. Then the question arises: what is behind all that is being played today? They hide their ambition and appetite, that's how I see it. With my view of a non-specialist, but a sufficiently experienced person who has analyzed, commented, observed, participated in political life, what do I see? I see a bank that was represented as the most successful and for several governments in a row it grew up. Finally, in the management of GERB grew and became the most powerful bank. Now all of a sudden, we get the news that this bank is actually bankrupt. Whether it's stolen, that's what the prosecution and the court should say. Something wrong must have happened there. If it's a pyramid and it's stolen, the D.A. and the court have to do their job. The Lightning Prosecution has convinced me of myself, on my own shoulders, acting very quickly, I am absolutely convinced of its lightning to make sure that whoever is guilty goes to jail and finally calms the spirits. But that does not mean that we should become a court of law, as a consequence, as a prosecution and seize these functions first. Secondly, it does not mean that the National Assembly should deal with a bank and save it. Whatever you call it, whatever you're changing terminology, that's what we're doing today. Some admitted it clearly and accurately. Yeah, we're saving this bank. Why are we saving her? In fact, behind what's called saving, what is it? How do I see the picture? I see it this way: a coalition of political forces who are preparing to rule together, there are four of them, now a five-year coalition has doubled over the CCB bank's corpse and wants to distribute what is left and take it. We remember very well how in one night his one-time bank passed from the hands of Slavcho Hristov into the hands of Tsvetelina Borislavova. We are now looking forward to seeing for one night how KTB will pass from the hands of Tsvetan Vassilev into whose hands perhaps again the Tsvetelina Borislavova, perhaps in some others who are hiding behind these companies, which are now declared as investors, but it turns out that BNB does not know who is behind them. Maybe that's how I assume, I guess, the intuition so tells me that behind the appetite to take CTB is the parties that will now want to rule. These are: GERB in the first place, the Patriotic Front, ABB is also in the line and DPS, of course, because they are the initiators of these decisions with which we want to save her. These five political groups want to take over the bank. Why am I shutting down the Reformation Block? Someone's gonna ask. Well, because apparently they didn't agree there, they're dissatisfied with the pie they're given and they're signaling that they're not very happy. That's what they say, and that's why they're now creating some kind of pressure. In fact, they have already agreed to divide the CCB and share it with each other to become once again the bank of power, but to the new power, the one that is coming. I have outlined which political forces form this new power. They are clear already, they comment and are known to everyone. Here the question is: why should the National Assembly deal with providing a new bank of new power rather than starting with the things that are important to people? What are the important things? Let's kick out the TPP Maritsa 1 and 3; the American companies that the state is milking them! Including, according to your beloved European Union, this is forbidden. Let's get rid of the RES! As in the past the National Assembly the same, the bad Ataka, that you spit a lot here all until you entered the parliament, she made a reduction in the profits of these oligarchs. Yeah, we suggested it, only the Constitutional Court called it off because there's lobbying. Let's get on with it and then see how the price of electricity goes down. It is currently rising because national traitors have signed the contracts to these companies to buy their current at a ten-year, 20-year-old price. They're covered for 15 years. What's that called? Market economy? If anyone can prove it, get the Nobel Prize for Market Economics. However, I say that this is not a market economy but a monopoly. This is a profit that the Bulgarian governments have given to certain companies. Let's break these contracts. Let's break the gold mining contract with which Bulgaria is robbed by billions every year by a foreign company and this company pays 1.5% interest! This has been going on for over 10 years. I personally speak for at least 10 years against this deal. I've spoken here dozens of times. This deal, this concession goes on! Even the last and last government gave her more concessions, this same firm! The robbery continues. Let's return to Bulgarian hands the mobile operators who were in the hands of the Greek state-owned company Globul. We are giving it to the Greek state to operate because we are incompetent, and now it is in the hands of a Norwegian state-owned company. It wins and will earn hundreds of millions of Bulgarians will become poorer. Why not a Bulgarian state firm? From here I ask: why should this bank, which we are now discussing, not be a state-owned Bulgarian bank? I've heard many suggestions here: to come an investor, to whom to sell it to, I think Mr. Kanev just now. Stop selling, Mr. Kanev! Your political power sold out Bulgaria in the face of your leader, former. Now you want to sell more! Stop selling! Let's keep what it is, let's increase, let's return to Bulgarian state hands what has already been dealt! Here one of the speakers said that 12% of the Bulgarian economy was affected. But the Bulgarian economy, dear patriots, is long gone! What Bulgaria is winning right now, all the profitable sectors are in the hands of foreign companies! I won't have enough time to write them, but I've written a special book. I'm not a bank professor, but I'm the author of thousands of articles and books, dozens. I can give it to you to read it to see how foreign companies have robbed Bulgaria, how they continue to rob it and how every year the poor Bulgarian people leave about 30 billion dollars in the cash register of these companies! Let's get them back, and then you'll see how there'll be money for higher pensions, how there'll be money for education, culture, health care and everything that's now being said: there's no money. This is what we propose for us is the agenda of society. That's the important thing we have to work on. I see the opposite. I see a diversion again. Next week you will be interested in us. I know, because it is already known, with the so-called budget update. What does that mean? This relates to today's question of saving a bank, which should actually become state and remain state, and from corporate to renaming it cooperative so that the Bulgarian farmers can finally receive cheap or interest-free loans. Maybe, as there once were cooperative banks, decades ago, it stimulated the development of domestic production. Now, not to repeat the banal truths, our tomatoes bring them in from Turkey or Macedonia and only parsley is Bulgarian. This thing to turn around, we need to have exactly this state presence in banks and in industry. This is the essential topic. Let us debate on it. Give her your opinion. Otherwise, here the banking terminology, specialized terminology, with it can juggle hours and eventually people will still not understand what this is about. Because the banking sector has always been the most privileged in the world, not only in Bulgaria. And when they started saving banks in the US and in the European Union, the manager of BNB said that, many people were surprised that capitalist America nationalized its banks. Of course, this America is starting all the evil in the world because there's a money printing house out of cover called the Federal Reserve. This printing house runs the entire financial temperature in the world. She runs the crises, she creates them, she controls them, and when she wants, she robs those she wants, but banks always win. Isn't that right? That's the axiom. And the people always lose. We currently have terribly needy Bulgarians with simple help. From simple help, it means paying the electricity, the bill, paying the surgery, paying for the health services, something they need to save their lives. We meet people like that every day. I'm not saying this here to parade or pretend to be some guy. It's really a question that doesn't leave me indifferent because there's no way! Against this background, let's sit down and talk about how to save a bank for me, it's just that I can't call it anything other than cynicism, political cynicism. Today we spent several hours in political cynicism. And that is why I urge you to put an end to this subject, to move on to essential subjects. There they are. They're in. I'll tell you right away, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that it has been allocated to the Commission. Here is a proposal: an amendment to the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, which affects the minimum amount of pensions. And think about how to promote them. Let's argue about that. Let's argue, let's fight, but something to decide. Just as today is being argued and there have been debates about something that is not essential, let's argue about the size of the minimum pension. I say we can pick it up and now you all confirm that because it turns out you could find a few billion......................................................................... are five...................................... are six or six or six or six or six.................................... they will be found......................................................................................... Yeah, they're already talking about it. It's already been determined. This is decided and Bulgaria will take a loan of 5 billion. Where will he go? The new government will decide. It'll probably set them up, no problem. Some of them would go to save the bank. The other part doesn't know where. I'm against it! If there are billions of them, I want them to go to raise pensions. Let's see if we can't do that. Because when I proposed it to the past National Assembly, here we came across mocking calls: "Come on, enough with the pensions! Let's talk about something else. Where are we going to get the money? Well, here we go! So there was money to be found! Now, there are specialists who immediately provided, and now we're going to take a five billion loan, right? As far as I can see, that's what I'm talking about. Specialists in banking...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u147	Mr. Siderov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u148	I propose that these billions that are now, anyway, already secured, next week will even get us to vote them out, go to raise minimum pensions, not save one bank or another. The banks, if they like, to save themselves! It's not the people's concern at all. The Bulgarian people with the banking oligarchy have such a cosmic difference that it just doesn't make any sense to engage public attention with the banking business. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I call on you to remove these points, unnecessary and of the society that we are now looking at, to remove the law Vezhdi Rashidov from the agenda and to put the law of the Bulgarian people on the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u149	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. The proposals you have spoken about will be considered once they have passed the appropriate path described in the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. You have been in Parliament for a long time and you know what it is. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Today we killed all day on the topic of KTB. Unfortunately, however, none of the speakers held the debate on the facts of the report. It is true that the other day, in the Budget Committee, we looked at them very thoroughly over four hours and it is still nice here today, from the National Assembly stands, to say who the guilty are, so that we can deal with this problem now. If you see the debate in the Budget Committee, if we hear the debate today, if you look carefully at the Report which has been submitted to the National Assembly, I would summarize here that three lines of reasons have emerged for me in the case of CCB, not to say guilty. The first line is undoubtedly the line of the bank itself KTB, its owners, majority and others, of the management of the Bank, which apparently made absolutely irresponsible decisions. The audit companies report lists countless violations in lending, in drawing up reports, and I would say that these violations are bordering some of them on crimes, or, as the Prosecutor General said, theft. The second line of agents and guilty, this is the line of state institutions. Who are these state institutions that have not done their job all these years to allow the management and owners of the bank to steal? Well, they're clear. First of all, unfortunately is the banking supervision of BNB. We have asked the Budget Committee many questions about what banking supervision has been doing and why the inspections of banking supervision have not revealed these violations that audit companies are now discovering. Why BNB one month before putting CCB in special supervision approved the purchase of the Bank of Victoria? And now the Bank of Victoria is in bankruptcy because of this decision of BNB. And all of a sudden, we all clap our hands and we find out that the CCB has committed violations, thefts have been done, and the situation is terrifying! A second state institution, DANS, in the part of financial intelligence. Well, we did a great, mega structure, which, for me, is also one of the main obligations of investigating money laundering, investigating financial fraud. There's financial intelligence. All Bulgarian taxpayers, companies write some declarations, write some rules about domestic money laundering, should notify. Banks have very serious requirements under this law. And these institutions couldn't find out in all these years that there were thefts, that there were financial flows leaking out of the Bank, leaking out! Thirdly, here, with the state institutions, I will not fail the law enforcement authorities, because they are also part of this security system, of national security. Because you have no doubt, do you, that the banking and financial system is actually part of our national security system?! I hope these law enforcement authorities do their job now and at least prevent the bank from being robbed. Thirdly, the third line, which no one has affected so far, is the line of private institutions. I'm talking about the auditors. All major banks, small banks, all large enterprises and smaller enterprises legally are obliged to hire audit companies that, by checking, validate their financial statements, balance sheets and so on. Where was the auditor of the CCB, the international audit company with a name, the so-called part of the big four, KPMG? Where was she? Why are all the bank's accounts certified without reservations, without comments? She, this audit firm, as well as the supervision of the Bank, had other obligations to look at documents because all the time it was explained to us that the Bank had presented false, false documents, they were obliged to verify the correctness of the data in these documents, only either they didn't do so because they were criminal negligence or they didn't do so because they had to, but this is still the work of the law enforcement authorities. And here I think you should not miss any of these three lines of the causes of this case. What's supposed to happen now? What should we, speaking so much on this subject, do to ensure that such cases, such violations, will not happen in the future, to try to strengthen people's trust, to restore a sense of justice? Many spoke out of this tribune, many different options were offered. In fact, we, as a legislative body, have one single possibility.. a change in legislation. I would say that we should even consider a change in the Penal Code on Bank fraud, a change in legislation concerning banks, credit institutions and all others, with a comprehensive, detailed transposition of European directives in this area, because it turns out that there are gaps in this regard. Secondly, in order to strengthen people's trust and justice, I think that there must also be guilt from everyone involved in this case. Guilt can be penal and certainly those who have a violation of the law will be punished, but here we have to say that there are also moral faults where it cannot be proved or not by law. A second question now in this situation, after five months of special supervision, a closed bank that doesn't function for five months, what should we do? We've been asking ourselves these questions. The first and most important answer we must immediately guarantee the payment of guaranteed deposits to citizens and companies. For me this can actually happen by the end of November if the necessary texts are adopted for this. We were also willing to give one last chance to rescue CCB from potential investors, to give the unsponsored investors a chance, to the enterprises that have accounts there, to the workers in these enterprises, to the hospitals, to the municipalities that have accounts there, if the Bank can be healed. We had a good desire to give the famous thing a chance. 3 in which, with legislative changes, we can partially transpose the Bank Restructuring Directive and give a chance. Today, from this tribune, it turns out that this chance is gone. The potential investors who tour the country for several months from the report of the Bulgarian National Bank found that they had several meetings at BNB. I don't want to comment on what is recorded for these meetings, but today Mr. Iskrov here, from this tribune, read us the basic parameters of an offer. Perhaps it is not a baptized offer or something, but for us it is an offer and the things he has read to us, the proposals that have made the investors in question are really not acceptable. We, ladies and gentlemen, are politicians, not bank specialists. We represent the Bulgarian citizens not only the guaranteed depositors. We represent both the unguarded depositors and all Bulgarian citizens. That's why we're here to give the opportunity, if there is one, and it can be realized, that everyone can come out of this criminal case with minimal losses. Not only were we not understood, but also from what Mr. Iskrov brought here, it became clear that perhaps this could not really happen to the investors who are currently here. In this sense, our parliamentary group in the holiday gathered and decided to make a proposal to drop the item. 3 of the draft decision and to introduce editorial amendments to this point. 1 and 2, namely: "1." The Council of Ministers should prepare and submit to the National Assembly an amendment proposal, in full compliance with European Union law, of banking laws, including the BNB Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Deposit Guarantee Act. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] 2. The National Assembly shall adopt legislative changes ensuring the immediate payment of guaranteed deposits under the conditions of European Union law. However, I would also like to refer to a third question, which almost none of the speakers have touched on so far. In the Budget Committee, he was slightly affected, but I think we should have a more serious debate on him. This question is: how will the guaranteed depositors, whom we will try to ensure that they receive their money immediately, actually receive their money? How do you feel about it as a mechanism? Whether after five months of waiting will finally turn out that instead of getting their money, they should wait again, only this time another two months and in queues in front of different banks and their branches. Some will say: " What are you doing here? No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a technical issue, it is a matter of the Deposit Guarantee Act. In this law there is a very post procedure, not to say that there is no procedure for how these deposits should be obtained. It's said to come from a bank. The word "one" has not been spoken, but it is in a single number "bank." And here is our question to the Fund chief: how are 230 thousand guaranteed depositors - I think one or more - was the figure that we commented on in the Budget Commission - will receive their guaranteed deposits, or will they open accounts to transfer their guaranteed deposits to a bank? I guess that can't happen. Mr. Nikolov explained that it wasn't going to be a bank. It would be ten banks, and all the depositors would be distributed to these banks under the U.N.N. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only comment on this. Even if there are ten banks, assuming that people go into them so evenly distributed along the E.N.N.N. and they need the most urgent service for at least ten minutes to be able to deal with the problem, we'll have two months to watch queues on the banks. Perhaps there will be questions: Are these queues for the guaranteed ones, for the unguarded ones? Is this bank, by any chance, out of order, too, so they've started lining up on it? For me, this issue must be resolved by legislative change and two principles must be laid down in it: The first and important principle that each guaranteed depositor must have a free choice to indicate which bank he wishes to receive the guaranteed deposits or to which account, if such a depositor already has, to transfer the money to. Then he's not going to line up on the E.N.N.N. in ten banks and reopen his accounts in those banks or draw them out. This whole procedure must be done with minimal involvement of people in this process. So that it is signed that the guaranteed depositors, with minimal effort on their part to receive their money on the relevant accounts. In this direction, we expect the government to submit a bill to solve this problem, as here... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u151	Which government?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u152	It doesn't matter. There's a caretaker government. It has the same rights as any other government, so it can work and prepare this bill. Here, of course, by addressing the caretaker government or the future on a regular basis, if it happens soon, I allow myself to violate the independence of the Bulgarian National Bank and to recommend, specifically I say the word "recommend" to their specialists to finally start talking to the specialists of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission and to work these changes together. Mr. Chairman, here, I'll give you what I read. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u153	Thank you. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u154	Mr. President, in order to advance the time of the plenary sitting and on the grounds of art. 44, para. 1 sentence second, I propose that you put an extension of plenary time to the end of the debate on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u155	Until the debate is over, or until the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u156	Until the vote is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u157	By vote, thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. They voted 142 MPs: 133, against 3, abstention 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u158	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u159	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u160	There is a word for procedure Mr. Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a note to you that after Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's speech you should have given the opportunity for lines and then give the opportunity to speak for a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u162	The lines remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u163	There's still an opportunity. Thank you for your remark, Mr. Atanasov. Let's run out of lines and dots, and then I'll give the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group. Is there anyone who wants a line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Stoyanova, it's a good thing I heard something from you that I didn't hear from anyone else. Because you've drawn some lines of culprits here. Some of them I see you put them in the last row today in Parliament. I don't know who invited them. [[Noise in the room.]] I want to pay serious attention to what you said. I am saying who is invited, but I would like to ask why the President of the DANS is not invited to the House today? Because he is first elected by this body, by the National Assembly and is accountable to him. Secondly, the structure of financial intelligence has a very serious obligation to not only track money laundering, but to all transfers over ten thousand abroad. And I am convinced that at the average level in the operational composition of this service, sufficient data has been entered too long ago for what has happened in this bank. The question is, why hasn't this institution reacted?! Here's my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u165	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Stoyanova, thank you for really raising the issue of the people who are responsible for the condition we have reached today. Unfortunately, the KTB affair showed how much the Bulgarian state was breached. You have named three institutions that are guilty in this case. I'd like to add a few more. First of all, the Ministry of Finance, which was guiltyly silent in the first days when it had to pour liquidity into KTB if it wanted not to have these tails and this attack on the bank. Their behavior was different when there was a similar attack on the First Investment Bank. To this day, I have no answer as to why the behavior towards the two banks was different. Secondly, the Financial Supervision Commission with Mr. Stoyan Mavrodiev, former MP from GERB. CCB, if not otherwise, is an investment firm and as such a company is a supervised entity of the Financial Supervision Commission. The Commission slept through the whole KTB problem [[Noise in the room.]] Thirdly, the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors with President Vanya Doneva, former MP from GERB from Dobrich. A good woman, but absolutely unprofessionally done business. And I'm giving you an example. We've taken the trouble of checking out these companies that came out as companies with large CCB loans, who are their auditors. It turned out that an auditor of 50 of these companies with a total loan amount of 2.4 billion. BGN is a single person who is at the same time a member of the Audit Committee of KTB. Under the law, members of the Audit Committee of the CCB control systems for the efficiency of credit audit. So how does this person control himself and where was this same Public Supervision Commission so she didn't check, not see this thing and take appropriate measures?! So when you go to BNB resignations, which is absolutely mandatory when you go to DANS resignations, which is absolutely mandatory, then you have to go to the C.F.R. resignations and to the resignations of all institutions that deliberately or unintentionally, by professionalism or unprofessionalism have allowed it to come to what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u167	Mr. Kadyev, you're two minutes out of group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u168	Thank you. It was a line to Mrs. Stoyanova. I hope she understands that this isn't something personal to her, it's just a complement of the list of people responsible for what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u169	As you know, lines are also reported at group time. Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u170	I thank the MPs who replicated me. Thank you, because I took their line as a complement of my speech. This again raises the question of the state's control bodies, about the regulatory authorities of the state, a question which we have been chewing in the previous National Assembly, and which we now see again that it is on the agenda because they do not work effectively. However, the questions you asked, Mr. Kadiev and Mr. Atanasov, are actually very direct to the left side and the left upper part of the room. [[partial applause in GERB]] From where we get a whole day of teaching, all we get is reproaches that we wanted to heal a bank with government money and all sorts of things. A good intention at the last possible moment to give the bank a chance to recover is thus interpreted in this way by the people who perhaps should stand up here on this stand and answer these questions which I have asked and which you have put. And in addition to your question about the auditing company KPMG, I would like to make it clear to you that the BNB approves audit companies that audit banks. What you said as a percentage of the various banks at which this audit company performed an audit should have been identified as a risk by BNB. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are having an extremely important conversation about thousands of Bulgarian citizens, about the economy and the state and we are also expected to make important decisions. But let me interrupt this conversation for about eight minutes and call you from the parliamentary group of BPS left Bulgaria to pay respect to those Bulgarians who before us, and now have them, have the mind to form ideas, have the strength and character to defend such ideas, and have the vision to be leaders of the nation. They are the Bulgarian Buddhists, whose holiday we celebrate tomorrow "November 1st." For this reason I come up with a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. On November 1st, we celebrate the Day of the People's Buddhists, the people who, even in the most difficult times, throughout the centuries of slavery, violence and folk suffering, not only did they not fall down in spirit, but found the strength to sustain the spirit of an entire nation. This is a celebration in honor of those thanks to whom Bulgaria stood its freedom, its independence, its faith and its writing. This is the day of the guardians of the Bulgarian language and self-consciousness, of the spiritual leaders, not of the political leaders. Today we must remember that Rakovski, Karavelov, Botev and Levski are other than decisive people of action and people of thought. The covenants of Levski do not end with his notebook, but are revealed in his words: Yesterday, what we have spoken and written, we must have it in front of our eyes today, so that the people will not laugh at us in our work tomorrow. Because the Buddhist's words can only reach the people with a personal example. The Buddhists we honor are not just great thinkers, talented writers, genius poets. These are the Bulgarians who subjected their genius and talent to the people's work; who chose to enlighten the people, open their eyes and expand their horizons. There are people like that today. They're not always the loudest. They are modest people, dedicated to their profession, teachers and teachers who carry out their mission. These are today's citizens, the apostles who do not give up, and at the cost of huge efforts support the activities of the Bulgarian Chitalishtes; these are the artists who are struggling with the unculture. In a word, it is the Buddhists today who not only complain against illiterateness and vulgarity but struggle with it. A true Buddhist does not condemn the ignorant and illiterate, but tries to help him and educate him. Over the past year, we have supported and participated in the initiative "Pamet" for the planting of small forests in settlements related to the lives of our Revival Buddhists, as a sign of recognition and respect for them. BSP left Bulgaria will advocate support for public education in state and municipal schools, Bulgarian science and culture. Unfortunately, today again we have to fight illiteracy, among teenagers, to ensure high standards and quality of Bulgarian education. It is necessary, with our legislative actions, to restore the cult to knowledge and not to fall into captivity to the primitive. In this Chamber, fellow Members, there were also Buddhists, and we are obliged to them as well. We hope to be inspired by their example because the Presidents of the Bulgarian National Assembly were Antim I, Petko Karavelov, Zahari Stoyanov. In recent times Valeri Petrov and Yordan Radichkov met here. There have been, I hope, and there will be many others. The truth is that Buddhists have become politicians more often than politicians have become Buddhists. Therefore, we must bow our heads before the great Bulgarians and honor their work. To show respect not only today, but with our daily work to today's winners of the Revival Spirit, to Bulgarian scientists, to the cultural and enlightened figures. We must prove that we share their ideal of free and enlightened Bulgaria. Happy Thanksgiving to all Bulgarians! Long live Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. From the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank), Mr. Ivan Iskrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, many things have been said by the stands, some I share, others I do not share. Either way, in this situation, whatever you say, it's always your fault. On Wednesday, when I was consulting the parliamentary represented leaders to close the KTB case, I said what I was going to do I'm not going to answer all the questions, but I'd rather be dealing with two things. From now on, you gave me Mr. Bayraktarov, I was also a lecturer, I was also a MP. I know that it's one thing to speak in front of the audience and you can say anything, it's another to speak from the parliamentary tribune when you already have a responsibility as a MP. It is very important to be careful from now on what suggestions we make for a banking system and so on if we do not want to see each other very often here. Regarding what Mrs. Stoyanova said, I just want to add. I think that in the Committee on Budget and Finance we have clarified that the management of the Bank's supervision, which I do not manage, has a supervisor, I have just consulted with him, maintains the list of auditors, but the supervisory authority is the Committee for Supervision of Public Auditors. Correct me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u175	Public oversight of registered auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u176	That's right. I think there's a background check. It's not nice to throw black coats on a whole world company. After all, there are dozens of employees working there, if not more than dozens of employees, and this check will probably show exactly who the colleagues in charge of CCB were and so on. Since I deeply respect Mr. Borisov, with whom I worked in his capacity as prime minister, I would like to say that he who told him that the BNB had failed to draw up a restructuring plan under art. 121a of the Credit Institutions Act was not correct. I'm saying this because they asked outside and the journalists. Article 121a of the ZKI was introduced very soon by the previous National Assembly In practice, throughout the European Union, all supervisory authorities have entrusted banks and restructuring plans will be drawn up by the end of the year. However, this is for other cases, this does not concern banks with negative equity, as it turned out, after auditors entered in July for doubt and then the full audit. So it's none of your business. On item four, I propose that, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the words of the Bulgarian National Bank should be replaced by something else. Maybe the union guy...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u177	There's nothing to offer!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u178	You take it into consideration if you want to throw it away. The Bulgarian National Bank has no investigative functions, no functions to assign tracking of assets allegedly acquired in a criminal manner and so on, all the more so that we and this bank will not have much of a period of relations. Once the license is revoked, which is likely to happen, things are already taking over the bank's union. It can be assigned to another institution or to the trade union. Otherwise we will not be able to carry it out, as this will only be accepted for information. I said that such decisions cannot be as advice, recommendations, proposals given to the National Central Bank in accordance with European legislation. I also quoted the members and the decision of the Council of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u179	Thank you, Mr. Iskrov. The finance minister from the caretaker government Mr. Porozhanov asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very brief. It is undeniable that the case, when there is a systemic bank in a problematic state, cannot be without effects on the economy, effects on macroeconomic indicators and effects on public finances. Many of these were expressed about how much it would cost and how much it would cost. In any case, it will cost the state a great deal. Looking a little further away from the bank, looking a little further from the bank in time, looking at how everything happened in the last five months and a little bit backwards, will have quite a negative impact on public finances. I would stress only one of them, namely the future cases in which the country will be mostly the State in the face of the Ministry of Finance in terms of interests concerned, as by shareholders, depositors and any other affected persons. There are such indications and they are quite serious. As Mr. Martin Dimitrov said, there will be no movement of money and money, there will be many. And right now there is, and there will be in the future. Of course, the effects weighed through the positive and negative sides of one or another version of a solution are different. Therefore, I would like to make a proposal to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova at the beginning of next week, if you would like, at a closed meeting of the Commission to comment on the effects that we expect to happen in the future. Why indoors? Because what we would share could then be used not for the benefit of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u181	Thank you, Mr. Porozhanov. Any other colleagues for speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov made an offer. If you would please come in and explain in essence what you are proposing, whether the entire text of the Project for Decision and New Text is being removed or something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u182	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, our proposal is for an alternative draft decision with one sentence. I'll say it again: He accepted for information the report of the Bulgarian National Bank, expressing disapproval of the actions of the Board of Directors of BNB on the Supervision of Corporate Commercial Bank. We have been discussing the report that the Bank has presented to us for several hours, and in the current Project for Decision, there is no relation to it anywhere. We note that this information is available to us. It has been of our attention and, at the same time, we express what is heard in various speeches, which also partly reflects the existing problem. Please first propose this draft of ours by the honourable Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u183	Mr. Stoilov, this is essentially a whole new Project for a solution, and in the phase we are in, editorial amendments and additions can be discussed. This is all new. Explain how you see the voting procedure, since it has not been the subject of discussion by the Temporary Commission and the latter does not propose it in the report which we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u184	It is, Madam President, but we have numerous cases in practice,... [[Noise and disapproving lines from right and center.]] ... when in the course of the discussion this can be done as a reference, amendments, additions or alternative texts are proposed. I think that we are fully able to put this proposal to the vote because there were comments on it, even similar opinions sounded, while in the other project, unfortunately, we see inconvenient texts that send our wishes to ourselves for some future action. This is, in my opinion, the only appropriate action in your orders to put it to the vote and to the discretion of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u185	Mr. Stoilov, it follows that you formally propose to reject the draft decision in its several points, and this I will put to the vote as a matter of voting because the proposals for dropping specific points are put to the vote first. Then I'll suggest dropping point three and then we move on to editorial amendments and additions as they were made.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u186	Okay, if that's your preference.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u187	I put to the vote Mr. Stoilov's proposal for dropping the four points in the draft decision. We are voting for the motion to reject the four points of the draft decision on the Commission report. They voted 167 MPs: 39, against 110, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Please show the results in groups. [[Noise and lines, single applause to the right and center.]] I put to the vote Mr. Martin Dimitrov's proposal for dropping point three of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u188	Are Ms. Menda Stoyanova and Martin Dimitrov's proposals different, or are they the same, so we know how to vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u189	While I was participating in the meeting, Mr. Martin Dimitrov proposed. Now my fellow Vice-Presidents inform me that the same proposal has been supported by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Since both essentially lead to the same result, we are currently voting on this proposal for dropping point three initiated in time, I repeat, by Mrs. Martin Dimitrov, by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, it is possible that someone else has joined. Abort the vote! Vote 158 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. ) (a.k.a. 1 Mrs. Menda Stoyanova proposed as editorial amendments the point to sound like this: "1." The Council of Ministers should prepare and submit proposals for amendments to the National Assembly in full compliance with European Union law on banking law, including the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, the Credit Institutions Act, the Law on Guarantee of Claims. Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u190	And the deadline?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-31.u191	There is no proposed deadline here. [[BSP LB.]] You guys didn't do it. We're at the debate. We are at a time of vote and there is no way to include time limits to be timely or appropriate. I put the editorial proposal to the vote. 1, as proposed by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Vote 164 MPs: 130 against 33, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal for editorial amendments to the item. 2 of the Project Decision, p. 2 to sound like this: The National Assembly to adopt legislative changes ensuring the immediate payment of guaranteed deposits under the conditions of European Union law. Voting mode. They voted 168 MPs: 133, against 17, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is t. Three down. This is already a fact with the decision adopted by the National Assembly. We're on our way to t. 4 which will become t. 3 on which no proposals for editorial amendments or additions have been received in the debates. I will remind the Members of the National Assembly: For the purpose of more effective protection of the public interest and the interest of the depositors in the Corporate Commercial Bank relating to the need to follow the shareholders and administrators of the Bank, as well as the related persons, operations with assets, property, financial instruments and cash transfers, it recommends to the Bulgarian National Bank to enter into a contract with an international legal person with experience in this field, including in the investigation and tracking of cash flows in the event of insolvency. Voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: 136, against 23, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Now I propose that we vote on the solutions with the new editorials of the item. 1 and 2, and the renumbered item just voted on. 4 on the Project Decision. We are voting on the relevant points of the decision. There is a renumbering of the points due to the drop of one point, Mr. Iankov. Vote 168 MPs: 132 against 35, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. This has exhausted our work for today. The next regular plenary session is next Wednesday 5 November, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session.
