ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u1	177 MPs were registered. There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after discussing the Conference of Presidents a little earlier this morning, I suggest to your attention the following draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 5 to 7 November 2014, with its clarification: 1. Hearing of the Minister for Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria on Decision No 28-OS/2014 on the assessment of the probable degree of significant negative impact of a comprehensive and annual work project for 2014 for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block... 11 Importer: Kalina Balabanova 2. Hearing of the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism about the deal with the German private company Kloesters, represented in our country through the limited liability company Tsemeko. The hearing concerns a decision of the Council of Ministers of 2 October 2014 to compensate for a loss of more than 4 million. EUR on an unrealized project. Importer: Stanislav Stanilov. 3. Parliamentary control under art. 102 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which is scheduled for each first Wednesday of the month, at 12.30 p.m. Since the parliamentary groups in the Forty-third National Assembly are eight and each has the right to two questions, we propose that this control be extended today until two issues are exhausted on behalf of the parliamentary groups. 4. Parliamentary control under art. 89-101 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. The proposal of the Conference of Presidents is that this should be the first item for Thursday, as tomorrow is expected a decree of the President for the election of a Prime Minister, a structure and members of the Council of Ministers, which will eventually be included in our programme for work on Friday 7 November. Please vote on the Programme Project with these details that I have made. 200 MPs voted: 163, against 9, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Today is the first Wednesday of November and, as you know, by the order of art. 49, para. 7 there is an opportunity for proposals on behalf of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u2	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u3	I'm not done with the program project. I'll give you my word, Mr. Siderov. There's been a proposal with an inch. No 454-07-8 of 4 November 2014 by the President of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" Mr. Volen Siderov, which offers according to the order of art. 49, para. 7 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly as a point of the National Assembly Programme for the period from 5 to 7 November 2014 to include a draft decision on imposing regulation on increasing the prices of electricity and heat. No 454-02-27, submitted by Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs. The draft decision has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance in due time and since the 15-day period under Article has not expired. 84, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, there is no way that it can be included in our weekly program today. There has been another proposal for inclusion in this order in the weekly programme. It is from Mr. Rumen Gechev, who proposes that as an item on the agenda for the same period should be included Reports on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. The proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure for the following reasons: Firstly, it was proposed by Mr. Gechev, who is not a member of the leadership of the parliamentary group, which has a chairman, three vice-presidents and three secretaries. Mr. Gechev is not one of the members of this leadership. Next, with the completion of the term of office of each National Assembly, the documents received, bills, reports, draft decisions, declarations not voted in plenary shall be archived. There is no way that reports that concern the work of three national meetings of the 40th, 41st and 42nd could be discussed without being properly re-enacted during the work of the Forty-third National Assembly. On these grounds, this proposal of Mr. Gechev is also diverted. First Mr. Siderov wanted the word, then I'll give it to you, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u4	Madam President, I now see that I was very right when I voted against your election as President of the National Assembly. I have also been justified then, and now I would like to repeat myself, to tell you that I am truly convinced of my negative vote, as you continue your authoritarian style from the previous National Assembly when, in your decision, you admitted something or did not allow it. In this case, you have the authority of the Rules of Procedure. There is no need to justify yourself by the Rules of Procedure because it is on which the President may, in exceptional cases,................................................................................................. 49, para. 5, make changes to the agenda. Is that right? That's right! It is written in the Rules on which the National Assembly is now acting. You refused to do this. In addition, you report that the so-called Presidential Council ( pre-presidents) is a format which, by the way, is not exactly regulated in the Rules, it can even be said that it is illegal, that everything there has been smooth and sweet and the Conference of Presidents has decided. There's no such thing as a solution. I would like you not to mislead the Members of the National Assembly that any decision has been taken by the Conference of Presidents. I have expressed my opinion, you have rejected it and I have nothing to do with the decision that you are proposing here on behalf of the entire Presidency Council, as I am part of this Presidency Council and I do not agree with what you have proposed. I have now voted against the programme you have proposed personally. I want you to clarify these things, and not to mislead the Members of the National Assembly that everything at the Conference of Presidents has gone unanimously, unanimously, as you like to repeat over the last few weeks of a conspiracy, of a negotiation of a government that you have done with all parliamentary groups, except with.................................................................. Please be precise and correct when you report what is happening in your office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. I take that as a procedure in the manner of conduct. I have the right to answer you within two minutes, which I will not use as time. First of all, Art. 9, para. 2 Says what as functions the Conference of Presidents has: "1." consult on the draft legislative programme of the National Assembly and on the agenda; For this reason, what happened earlier this morning at the Conference of Presidents is a shorthand which is open and every Member of the National Assembly can see whether your request has received the support of some of the other members of the Council. Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, first of all, I would like to say that Mr. Gechev tabled this proposal on behalf of a parliamentary group, but that is the smaller question. Secondly, the bigger question is whether the National Assembly wishes to carry out its constitutional functions, to examine the accounts for the implementation of the budget of previous governments, which could not bring them into subsequent National Assembly meetings. The National Assembly did not fulfil its constitutional function, and the previous one, Forty-one, Forty-two. The reasons are different. Now you, with this interpretation, say that all the reports of independent regulators, of the Supreme Judicial Council imported into previous Legislatures, cannot be considered unless they are re-exported. Well, who brings them in when these bodies no longer exist?! In 2012, 2013, 2014 they were replaced in some way. With such interpretation, you are barring constitutional possibilities for the National Assembly to supervise various independent bodies. There will be such things as KTB, with other surprising events, if you accept such an interpretation. Who should look at the reports of the cabinet Borisov "the first cabinet Borisov, if not the National Assembly?"! They stand in the Law of the National Assembly. This interpretation is unacceptable, constitutionally irrelevant and harmful to the citizens of the Republic. If you continue to refuse to look at the accounts for the implementation of the budget of previous governments, regardless of who they are, of the Chambers, of the Supreme Judicial Council, you are blocking the ability of citizens to supervise these bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. You said yourself that the previous members of the National Assembly had not looked at the accounts without stating the reasons for this. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] I do not mind if there is a desire and the relevant committee proposes this, because on all reports there must be a mandatory report of the committees to which it is allocated, to go back in time, to look at and to accept the 2008 accounts, 2009. ▪ That is, as you suggest, to review the successive governments from three national meetings, why not the work of the office during these periods? Reports of bills and draft decisions received from 29 October to 4 November 2014: A bill to amend and supplement the Gambling Act. Importer Georgi Kadiev. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill amending the Social Security Code. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2013. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." The Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs will rule on the report. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMY Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Agreement amending and supplementing the Financial Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMY Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importers "Peter Slavov" and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill amending the Social Security Code. Importers: Mustafa Karadaye and Hassan Ademov. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Decision on the adoption of an updated national research development strategy (2020). Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs will present a report to us. Draft Law on ratification of the Convention on the Foundation of the European University Institute signed in Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Convention on Revision of 18 June 1992. The Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs and the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance will examine it before plenary. Report on the implementation of the Law and on the activities of the courts in 2013. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision to elect a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. Importer: Vanya Doneva, Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. A draft decision to impose regulation on increasing electricity and heat prices. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Project for a declaration of recognition of the results of the elections for Parliament and President in the Ukrainian People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic, held on 2 November 2014. Importer: Volen Siderov. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. On 30 October 2014 the National Statistical Institute received Information on a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic producer prices for September 2014. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the hearing of the Minister of the Environment and bring Mrs. Svetlana Zhekova. I remind you that we are about to ask questions from the second round, and so far the second questions have asked the representatives of the first four parliamentary groups on their size. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front are on the move. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, followed by the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" and by the ABB Parliamentary Group. Are there any who would like to ask questions on behalf of the Patriotic Front? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u8	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Madam Minister, I would like to continue my questions that I failed to ask you on Thursday. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions, which have been issued for research activities in the production of conventional gas and oil, and I would like to formulate them in several sub-questions. Since the procedure for these research activities has already started in 2010 and, more precisely, since October 2010, my questions have been formulated in the following way: since 2010, how many complaints, inquiries and complaints have been received at the Ministry of Environment by the Party of Ataka. As I have no information on whether the party of Ataka has responded to these issues during these years? In addition, I would like to ask you after completion and completion of the research activities around the gas depot of the village of Deventsi, have environmental disasters, upheavals and so on? Is the land still being processed around this gas field? Finally, on Decision No 28, are there any complaints received at the Ministry of Environment by environmental organisations, how many are there and at what point did they come to you? By the way, I'd like to end it, Madam President, and with one procedure. Since we all witnessed some ugly scenes last Thursday, I would ask you to apply the Rules in all its rigour, because no one is obliged to witness insulting qualifications and ugly, rude behaviour by an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, specifically on your questions. The procedure has indeed started 2010 with the adoption of the Council of Ministers' Decision on the extraction and exploration activities in question. In 2014 the contract with Park Place was concluded on 1 April. Between 2010 and 2014, I do not really have any information about the party "Ataka" or other complaints being entered into the MoEW. Complaints have been made to the Supreme Administrative Court following the adoption of the Decision of the Minister of Environment and Water of 26 August, which agreed on a working plan for the search and investigation of natural gas and oil. On your second question, I would like to point out that not only there, anywhere so far from oil and gas exploration activities, there is no information to have any harmful environmental impact on the environment. There are no signals received, and the checks on regional environmental inspections and waters show this. Following the adoption of the Minister's decision of 26 August on the coordination of the working plan of Park Place in search and survey in Vranino, 15 complaints were received both in the Ministry of Interior and in SAC. They come from different environmental organisations and from private individuals. For this reason, the decision has not entered into force and it will enter into force after a ruling in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u11	Thank you, Minister Jekova. I expect a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Are there any willing to ask a question? I can't see. Mrs. Balabanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Firstly, I would like to respond to Mr. Bayraktarov, who was so kind as to involve a party in his question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u13	Mrs. Balabanov, you have a chance to ask a question. The procedure in the manner of conduct is towards me and you do not have the opportunity to replicate and object. Ask yourself a question. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u14	Things are connected. First, let me tell you, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Elevator bell dings]] That party is attacking...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u15	Your question is to Minister Jekova. You're not in dialogue with each other. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u16	May I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u17	With a question for Minister Zhekova, without dialogue with the MPs. You don't have such a procedure with MPs. I'm listening to your question to Minister Jekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u18	Thank you. The Ataka Party is a party that has not since 2010 but, throughout its entire existence, taken the cause against the hole of Zlatna Dobrudja as its own and fought. And it's the only party that does it. And party "Attack" works actively with the citizens of Dobrich district. Since you are not aware, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me tell you that Mrs. Zhekova's decision has not entered into force precisely because we are working with the citizens and it is currently being appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. And to Mrs. Zhekova, I would like to ask myself the question, which naturally evolved in the context of the exhibition and its answers from last week, namely: did you receive, Mrs. Zhekova, some kind of financial incentive to sign under this decision? The answer would be eloquent, but disrespectful. We would like to have a hard answer from the party: did you receive a financial incentive to sign this decision, and if I did, to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u19	For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u20	Dear Mrs. Balabanov, no! [[Radio and applause in RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u21	There is a question from the ABB Parliamentary Group. Before that, Mr. Siderov "the procedure in the manner of conduct."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u22	Mrs. Dangowska, I demand you tell this insolent woman [[show Minister Svetlana Zhekova]] that he should behave with respect here when he comes to report to the people's representation. Because this is the representation of the entire Bulgarian society. He can't go out in such an arrogant way and say he can't, he can't behave like a jailer in a woman's prison, I'll say it again. [[Radio.]] This is disrespect for the MPs, and I demand that you make her a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u23	Mr. Siderov, I have the right to respond to your objection in the manner of conduct. The question asked by the group of "Attack" asked for a response with either a "da" or a "no" answer. And I think the answer was correct. The way you were asked, that's how you got an answer. [[Reply of Volen Siderov away from the microphones.]] You will have the opportunity in the 5 minutes to state your position to the Minister's answers. I'd like to ask you a question on behalf of the ABB group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u24	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister Zhekova! I am a Member of Parliament from the Dobrudzha region and during the campaign I held many meetings with voters. I must tell you that the opinion, not of the prevailing part, of all those who have taken part in this issue, is very strong, dissent not only with the production of gas and oil, but with the conduct of research activities at all. And that makes sense because Dobrudja is the most intensive agricultural area with the largest production. You know that there are interesting tourist sites in Dobrudja and, thank God, resorts are not rebuilt as they are on the southern Black Sea coast. So it is logical to disagree with this proposal to organise such proceedings. My questions to you are as follows: although this has started before you with the greatest respect that I have for you, because I have also been a minister of the service and I must tell you that it is an extremely ungrateful job, this will be understood a little later, have you nevertheless undertaken any relationship with the environmental organizations, have you agreed with them your intentions and also with the people of the region? That's one of the questions. I also made meetings with the governor, and with some of the mayors in the Dobrudjan region, they are also very disagreeable and are offended by the fact that no one has sought their opinion. Did you look for them, talk to them? One more thing I'm going to ask you about: Will you have the courage and courage to stand in front of people and explain your intentions, at all the intentions of organising such activities, be oil and gas production, be any other activities related to environmental protection? I stood in front of these people, even though I was in their favor. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I have to tell you, I wasn't comfortable at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u25	Mr. Stankov, I gave you a sign that time is up. In the second round of opportunity for one question you ask two very different questions, but the Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u26	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u27	Thank you. For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u28	Thank you for your question. The concerns of the people of this fertile region are quite understandable, but I would like to reiterate that the Minister's decision is at an extremely early stage of the overall procedure. She's just getting started. The decision sets out the conditions precisely for the lawful conduct of the activities under this contract. The contract has been concluded by law, the Ministry of Environment and Water is required to rule within a certain time limit only in relation to this stage, the potential impact of planned activities in the work plan on the four parts of the sites of the That's the solution. From now on, as you say, broad public discussions, if allowed at all and approved the work plan by the Ministry of Economy and Energy, because the Minister of Environment and Water's decision lays the legal framework for the implementation of the activities, but it is not an authorisation. That is, if the activities in the work plan are allowed, each of them will subsequently be subject to the environmental impact assessment procedure and there are broad public discussions within this procedure, where the Ministry of Environment and Water, the competent authorities, the Ministry of Economy and Energy and the investor will meet and will explain in detail exactly what their intentions are and what the benefits or damage to the region would be if such activities were at all. At this stage of the decision there are still none. There is yet to be broad public discussions if we proceed to such activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u29	Thank you, Minister Jekova. There is now an opportunity from each parliamentary group within five minutes to take account of the Minister's answers. First is the group of GERB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u30	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and ministers! Undoubtedly, the hearing held related to the decision of the Minister of Environment and Water issued on 26 August to assess the likely degree of significant negative impact of a comprehensive Annual Work Project for 2014 on the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block of We all know that the solution has caused discontent, tension, excitement, anxiety, which gives me reason to put on the agenda several fundamental issues, which I think are largely valid not only for this, but also for all decisions that are made and related to eliminating or preventing risks to the environment, to life and health of people. First and foremost, it is necessary to make decisions in a mode of complete transparency, awareness, relying on expert opinions, relying on the scientific community, of course, maximum awareness of the local population and the whole public. It is also necessary to strictly respect legislation and to conduct broad public discussions in order to really hear the positions and concerns of all stakeholders. And in case there are risks not to proceed to the realization of investors' intentions or in this case the companies that intend to proceed to search and research. Of course, when we are talking about compliance with the legislation, it is necessary once again to recall that the legislative authority in the Republic of Bulgaria took all measures and guarantees in 2012 that an unconventional method of oil and gas extraction was not allowed by the Decision to prohibit the application of the technology, which was taken on 18 January 2012 and subsequently changed in June 2012. These guarantees were given. The moratorium is valid in Bulgaria, which gives much greater security against such intentions, realizable in other Member States. In addition, the Environmental and Water Act was amended again in 2012. All exploration and drilling activities for oil and gas were required to be subject to an environmental impact assessment procedure. Here I would also like to address some other issues which I also believe have their place in the debates and in our efforts to improve the work of the institutions. They are related to the interaction of the authorities in whose powers both the issuance of permits and the carrying out of control activities in the course of the procedures for analyses, studies, coordination, as well as during the realization of activities in search, exploration and extraction of underground wealth. It is also necessary to pay attention to the strengthening of the responsibility of the business and its behaviour through a manifestation of corporate social responsibility and efforts for the business itself to inform stakeholders of the possible effects of its activities. Last but not least, I think it is appropriate to mention our country's efforts to ensure energy independence and, in this sense, conventional methods are not the subject of a ban. Of course, all these topics are related to one thing, and it is the unification of the efforts of the institutions, businesses and the non-governmental sector to protect the nature of Bulgaria and prevent violations of the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Attitude on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! This may sound strange, but I'm going to give you a full consent to three of those made just now. Firstly, we must adhere to the elimination of any attempts to eliminate prevention; secondly, we must adhere to the laws; and thirdly, what you have said, my dear colleague, is the balance of interests. A little about the history of this problem. Exactly 50 years ago, the research began on this locality. More than 200 drillings have been done, and in the territory subject to authorisation, they are exactly 212, Madam Minister. The studies were conducted with public funds by the Bulgarian governments. The results of the Bulgarian legislation are called Geological discoveries. They're in the National Geofund and they're available to anyone who wants to use them. The methods by which this great wealth can be used are two, both unacceptable: gasification and open mining. We're talking about new technology right now, so it's the key to giving permission for exploration and extraction. The person who will make the study by his own means will have to appear, according to the Bulgarian legislation, with the Minister of Economy to prove the commercial yield of the surface and the method by which the technology achieves it in order to obtain this commercial permission and then to go to a license for 35 years, as the investor in question applied. Madam Minister, my questions have been very simple to you, but I must admit that you have not found these correct answers. To the first question: have you assigned a report? You have not assigned a report and this is not an accident, but you have used very good experts because what you have decided is not likely to cause significant negative impacts at all does not fall into the territory of this point. 29 of Annex No 1 to the Environmental Act and does not oblige you to require the EIA for the volume you have authorised. That's the truth, so there's no speculation. To the second question: why is there no method that I asked you about on page two, and did they submit it to you in the written documentation? No, they haven't presented it to you, and you haven't made an assessment. Why? Because they applied for this period before you only for the first two phases Mr. Scott Larson spoke of. The third phase, which is the key to piloting the field application of the method, they didn't ask it of you and so everything at first glance is legal. They wanted permission for the part, not the whole part. Here's your mistake that you were in a hurry and in this part you didn't see all of it. The question is: these smart people across the street stand outstanding experts, with extreme financial power, are they reckless to pay us the fee, to study by their own means and not to be sure that they will reach the method and the commercial results of this activity?! No, they're not! They, unlike us, know perfectly well their interests and systematically pursue them. It's no coincidence they're talking about 5 plus 5 and 10 years, so they keep it in a large territory, for a relatively small amount, the possibility to study it for a long time. What is my conviction? The question of the method and technology will be raised after the signing of the so-called Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement. It is prepared under extreme secrecy precisely by the will of large corporations and will have very severe consequences for democracy and for small countries throughout Europe. Then the restrictions and what Mrs. Vasileva said will be dropped, and I will return to him, Mrs. Vasileva, to eliminate the conversions in the interest of large corporations against national interests. That's why I'm graduating, Madam President. The conclusion of this discussion is that all parties in this Parliament should work out a common Bulgarian position with regard to the Agreement, because if it is accepted as being prepared at the will of the major corporations, Bulgaria will have extremely severe and severe consequences, and conservation prevention will be eliminated with this Agreement. This is the key to the discussion we are having, Madam Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Dzhevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u34	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! The main conclusion required by the debate was the lack of sufficient information on both the project itself and the procedures carried out and carried out by the competent authorities. The lack of information, untimely and public disclosure raised doubts that something was being done in the dark, that unconventional technologies would be used in our country, not until the next day, after the conciliation procedure, the production of shale gas under the hydraulic fracking method, or coal gas. It's obvious from all the chronology that I mentioned last time when I asked the questions, it's just a matter of conventional approaches and methods. During the discussion we are having, there was another evidence in the Chamber that the topic is very specific. In order to be as information accessible and understandable to people, it is necessary to conduct a very adequate, thorough explanatory campaign, including with the participation of experts, such as in view of exceptional scientific potential in this area our country has, but they had to be both in the public domain with positions and in the public eye. Natural are the fears of the people who arose in view of the worries about nature, about the earth. I share here the concerns that colleagues before me have asked as questions. There is hardly any national representative and citizen, and the people who live in Dobrudja, not to appreciate it as a storehouse of our country and its contribution and share in agriculture, namely in intensive agriculture, which has already been realised and is a fact. It is also visible at this stage I do not see any concerns, but they had to be explained. That's why I asked you that question. The purpose of the coordination procedure of the Ministry of Environment and Water is to apply strictly environmental legislation, to protect nature, land, to have absolutely no risks to the health and life of the people there. This has to be in line. Thank you for the answer I received from you and subsequently from your successor that environmental legislation will be very strictly applied so that there are no problems with nature conservation. I hope that after this debate this will be confirmed, because we all seem to be repeating mistakes and we have not learned enough lessons from the lesson. There must be a hearing of civil society. By the way, this is what the last parliamentary elections have shown. We really need to listen fully to civil society, to listen and to correct decisions so that national interest is protected, to protect the interests of all of us in the country, to have real protection of our country. This does not mean that investment conditions should not be created and that investment should be implemented in our country. By the way, why am I saying we haven't learned our lesson? In the Forty-first National Assembly, we had debates, and I pointed out the post-factum when tensions were created again, as in the case of the authorisation for exploration and exploration of oil and natural gas within Block 1-11 in Vranino, but also when the changes to the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms were considered. I pointed out then that unfortunately the discussion and the debates have not been held. We've seen the natural reaction of civil society. We subsequently had the discussion and debate under pressure and reached solutions to positions that correspond to people's attitudes, that is, we adopted extremely restrictive measures with a view to the inability and acceptance of genetically modified organisms in our country. I could point out within the framework of the Forty-first National Assembly and another bill, for which the idea was initially in one form, and the final rights received serious corrections to the Waste Management Act. I hope that, after today's discussion, all steps from now on on on this project will be made public in a timely manner, will also be clarified to the people on the ground. Last time you made such a commitment. I hope that today we will receive confirmation of these words of yours. Besides, there were and there were references. I'm also insisting that he joins us. [[sign that time has run out]] our scientific potential. I'm done, Madam President. We were a little late with the explanatory campaign when we were building the Natura 2000 network. I would like to thank once again our scientific staff from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences who joined the explanatory campaign in all the corners of our country. People have seen that what is to come is even good for the country. The worries were eventually dropped. I really hope that these public debates will lead to better and adequate solutions in order to protect nature, to have investment and all of this will be in line with environmental legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Borislav Veliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, Madam Minister, Mr Minister! These debates, which were held here at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" are obviously timely. They express public concern and pain. Perhaps the tone at some points is stronger to hear better, including outside this House, but we still have to admit that the economic development of the country should not be put at odds with our care for the environment. Without falling into extremes, at least at present, we of the Reformation Block are inclined to believe that environmental protection and, in particular, of the groundwater in northeastern Bulgaria, where we know that there is no permanent surface flow, undoubtedly prevail. I find it hard to imagine that these 200 drillings, driven in the distant years, perhaps the 60s of the last century, but in any case in a distant past, then the drilling techniques, the encampment, cementing and drilling through cementation, to say to the lower part of the valance, were more modern than they are at the moment and that at the moment we could not provide better protection of the valance than the lower layers, including by passing through the water pillars. In this sense, it seems to me that what they have appealed for and called on other colleagues to use the entire scientific thought and potential of the country, in this case, must be harnessed to ensure the conservation of the strategic underground resource for our country. It is clear that this phase, which has not yet been cleared in terms of technology, will probably have to be cleared of the normal government by the next government, related to the mandate of this National Assembly. And as there are good experts and financial power on the part of the business, I think that it was said by colleague Bozhinov, we have good experts both at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and at the University of Mining and Geology. I believe that these debates here have shown that there are also good experts in the Forty-third National Assembly. I am convinced that our forty-third National Assembly will be a guarantor of compliance with all European and Bulgarian environmental standards, laws and regulations and, if necessary, we will change them in the coming days, weeks or months to respond to the pain of society related to these issues, in this particular case for Vranino, but not just there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. To be treated by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u38	My name is Peter Petrov, Coalition. Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! This is the first time I've stood on this stand. It's an honor. I'm excited now, and I'd like to address this issue, I suppose, on other issues concerning engineering solutions. I'll take the attitude because I'm an engineer. I'm a chemistry major. By the way, let me tell you, this is the first time I've had my workbook in 24 years. All this time I've been supporting myself, creating businesses. In this regard, I would like to say that I respect what the young lady has done here. She protected the Bulgarian land with much heat, but I do not like the way she behaved.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u39	Mr. Petrov, attitude to the Minister's answers is the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u40	It's because of my inexperience. Madam President, if you'll excuse me and the others.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u41	That's why I'm taking the liberty of reminding you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u42	Thank you. This is what we're talking about. This coal gas, which is announced to be extracted in Dobrich and has it there, has nothing to do with the coal gas, which Mrs. Kalina Balabanovova was trying to explain to us that the coal gas for which she did a check, I guess on the Internet, is a gas that comes from coal gasification. The processes are quite different there already. As a man who's studied this issue a lot, I've never met any gasification of underground coal layers. In this case, and perhaps this should have been explained at the very beginning to the MPs about the natural gas that is produced in Australia, which represents 70% of Australia's extraction and is exported. It is coal gas, but in Bulgaria it is known as gas. It is obtained in the cavities of coal layers due to the interaction of coal with water, which is just above the coal layer, at high pressure and at high depth. It's methane. In this regard, I would like to say about the studies, of course, as a patriot, I also cannot easily perceive the thought that someone comes here, starts doing exploding, fracking and so on. I must tell you, however, that I am meeting with voters who are poor, hungry. [[speaking indistinctly]] There are really hungry voters, I meet people who are sick. In our country, we need to decide on a compromise between exporting only wheat, barley and oats or extracting other treasures that we have. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the colleagues that we are currently lighting ourselves with the current that is being produced in Golden Thrace. Did you know that, along with these coals in the atmosphere, you dump selenium and tellurium, because of which the sheep's fur falls around? Let us then close all Maritzi to stay in the dark, to be in a candle and to be in a clean and beautiful Bulgaria. In this context, I would like to express my opinion that, when making important decisions, whether Bulgaria remains a poor, pathetic country, as we are now, or to seek alternative ways, but while maintaining the natural environment, subject to all the requirements to make proper decisions. Bulgaria will not move forward if it does not develop its natural fields, and in a bearable way for our entire country. Once again, we have the case of Golden Thrace, which is showering with selenium and tellurium at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Center of Democracy? I don't see anyone who wants to be treated. Next is the group of the Party "Attack" "Mr. Siderov."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u44	I love patriots who defend shale gas. The man who just spoke, and before that, his colleague, in fact, acted as a push-button for the government. The cabinet will be voted on Friday, they have not yet taken over the levers of power. By the way, I don't see it, yet the leader of the greatest political force has not come to work. Mrs. Tsacheva, summon him, please! You can't do this! Is that how it's going to be as Prime Minister?! On the issue of shale gas, that's the way it is. Because here a gentleman tried to be a wise guy, just to tell him that when he tasted the brandy in the Burgas pubs, here the Ataka Party was fighting against shale gas and succeeded because we have a moratorium. The fact that this moratorium is now being circumvented by the office is another matter. [[Replys from the Pf Parliamentary Group]] This whole office works as a department of the American Embassy. In the case of shale gas, we have the following situation. This is not about looking for alternative sources. Everyone knows that shale gas or coal gas or other ways in which gas is sought destroy the Bulgarian land and groundwater. That's what was talked about too much. When I hear someone pretending to be an expert, I immediately think of the following truth: every assassin is a very good expert. He's a good sniper, for example. An expert, isn't he?! When I hear that someone is an expert, I immediately ask the question: who does this expert hire him and who does he serve? Because an expert can't control himself. When I hear the nonsense about having an expert government, I ask: who will order these experts what to do? An expert is a man who works in his field after he's ordered to do something. Politicians are something else because they come up with their ideas, protect them and defend them. Otherwise we confuse things, confuse the notions and get to the point where people who pretend to be patriots defend something that is harmful to Bulgaria. Just to answer the speculation that if we developed some gas in Bulgaria, it would help us to fix things and people would not be hungry and poor. Dear patriots, when an American company is admitted in Bulgaria, thanks to office offices like this one, this American company will sell Bulgarian gas even if there is one. She will sell it, not Bulgaria. Who now sells gold to Bulgaria? It's a foreign firm. For how much? For less than a percentage commission fee. Why aren't you making a fuss about this? Because you don't care about that. The Maritsa, yes, must be closed. That's what I'm for. But then nuclear power needs to be opened, and you are against nuclear power. You are opposed to building the new plant, you are opposed to increasing the nuclear power of Bulgaria, which is the only way for ecological, clean electric current. Those with whom you are together at the moment, I mean Mrs Kuneva's party from the so-called Reformation Bloc, she is a major culprit for Bulgaria to close the blocks of the NPP. Then Kuneva, Passy, Verheugen and Kovachev lied to the Bulgarian society that the European Commission had decided to shut down the nuclear power plant. This turned out to be a lie, and we exposed it, not someone else, by letter in the European Union, the European Commission. We've received an answer. This was done on my own special order, and we received an answer that there was no such solution. Therefore, the closure of the blocks of "Kozloduy" took place with a lie and this can be used with a Vienna Convention which says that when a contract is based on fraud, it can be cancelled. It can be used now and we can open the Third and Fourth Reactor, as we have recorded in one of our decisions. I hope it gets to the plenary in a century. Under your leadership, Mrs. Tsacheva, I don't know if that will happen, but someday it will. When we talk about Bulgaria's interest, we need to make it clear which one is for shale gas - Americans, American companies. Who's for other types of gas, too? The Americans. Currently they are allowed in Bulgaria to work and study and to do whatever they want because there is no control. No matter how many expert pints will be bound by this tribune, it is clear that the golden Dobrudja land is being destroyed at the moment. It's happening right now! Whatever speculation I'm about to present here is clear that she's given permission to an American firm to do what it wants. Control, like I said, is gone. This situation existed since 2010, when GERB was in power and then the Minister of the Environment had also given such permissions, again to offshore companies. We need to be clear: he who wants to get some shale or coal or other type of gas in Bulgaria, he works for the American companies who will sell this gas. They do not care what condition the Bulgarian land will be in. Thus he proves that he is not a patriot, but an employee of foreign interests. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Attitude from the parliamentary group of ABB Mr. Ivan Stankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! I'll be very brief. First of all, I would like to say that I am not entirely satisfied with the answers, because you essentially did not answer the questions I asked. I also listened carefully to the answers of the questions raised by my fellow Members. Of course, you have your thesis that you're defending, and maybe that's right of you. I will not dwell on the legislative side, nor on the content of gas and oil production, because I am not a specialist in this direction, but I would like to tell you about the consequences, because we spoke very seriously at Dobrich himself and at the Thracian University, which I run, about the possible consequences of organising such production. Dobrudzha is an intensive region and it is not a coincidence called Zlatna Dobrudzha. The research we did there, because in our laboratories, we've studied food from all regions, and I have to tell you that this is one of the cleanest areas. If we lay a hand on him in any case, we're going to make a serious detour, a serious violation. We therefore believe that we should not continue these procedures in both research and the organisation of gas and oil production, because it will not solve the problems. It is true that in Dobrudzha unemployment is very big, but there are other activities, there are alternatives, namely, there are one conventional production, strong, very large-scale, competitive, unlike many others in Bulgaria. There is an opportunity to develop organic production. The thing that disturbs us very much, and at our university, the Thracian one, many times we have talked about these issues, this is the ecological condition not so much of Bulgaria as on the planet. Our planet is so contaminated that it could blow itself up at any moment. I don't say strong words, that's true. We must address this problem and, as Parliament, talk more often about these issues. Not to mention the food products we've been researching. I have to tell you, this is scary. We have a laboratory that examines food products from the ground to the final product or the entire food chain. Things are extremely worrying, especially what we import from the outside, heavy metals, pesticides, and what else can be found in them. So we need to think seriously about these issues and be very, very responsible for protecting the environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u47	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Moving on to: HEARING THE MINISTER OF ECONOMICS, ENERGY AND TURISM ABOUT THE DEAL WITH GERMAN PARTICIPATIONS The proposal for a hearing was received by the Member of the National Assembly. Stanislav Stanilov. Professor Stanilov, you have the floor to develop your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Meeting of the office on 2 October this year The government of the Republic of Bulgaria decides to compensate for the damage of more than 4 million. EUR 4 million, in particular. 186,000. 704, of the limited liability company Tsemeko, which is represented in our country by the German company "Kleisters" ( "Betaigungsgeselt." A draft agreement on which Bulgaria is to pay 50% of that amount has been submitted and the German party claims payment to take place by 22 October 2014. According to my latest information, the damage must be paid to the German Government as it has already compensated the company in question. Your report to the government, Minister, shows that the main argument for this decision is the freezing of investment guarantees by the German Government for projects in Bulgaria, which is adversely affected by the attraction of foreign investors. In other words, instead of seeking its rights, the Bulgarian state is ready to pay the amount, otherwise it will harm the good relations between Bulgaria and Germany, which not only sounds unserious, but also represents a clear humiliation in front of the German country. From the case files I was able to collect, it is clear that the dispute is actually between the company in question and the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoSW), which does not issue an EIA for the construction of a Cremikovski Slak cement plant in the territory of the former metallurgical combines. The legal nature of the MoEW grounds is confirmed by four explicit decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Commission for Protection of Competition. It follows that the case must be referred by the company to a specialised international court and not by the government to take an unlawful decision in favour of that company. In addition, the decision of the Council of Ministers included a reason for the agreement in question not to be subject to ratification by the National Assembly as required by the Bulgarian International Contracts Act. There may therefore be some legal arguments, but it is a clear indication that the amount of the state reserve in question will be paid quietly, so to speak, under the counter. We are challenging this hearing not because of the substance of the dispute between the company Tsemeko, representing the German company and MOEW, but for three other reasons. First, by its decision the Council of Ministers took the decision of two senior Bulgarian institutions... the Supreme Administrative Court and the Commission for Protection of Competition, for which there is no constitutional basis. The laws in Bulgaria are for everyone and cannot be violated even mostly by the executive authority. Secondly, removing the agreement in question from the requirement of ratification shows that the Council of Ministers is trying to avoid the debate because it doubts the positive decision of the National Assembly. In itself, this action is contrary to the constitutional principles of the parliamentary republic in which the legislative power stands above the executive. Thirdly, the text in the project, I quote verbatim: The two countries refrain from spreading the content of the agreement, shows that you, as well as your colleagues, intended to conceal this violation of the Bulgarian laws from society. From this tribune, I call on you, Minister, to explain to the MPs of the Forty-third Bulgarian Parliament how you allow yourself to make illegal proposals in the Council of Ministers and to make illegal decisions with which the Bulgarian interest is sacrificed in the name of the mythical good relations between the largest and one of the smallest countries in the European Union? There's no such relationship, there's a real politician. In German this term means the intention of each party to defend with all its measures and means its own interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u49	And thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Here you are, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, thank you for the question and the opportunity to provide additional information on the decision adopted by the Council of Ministers. During the meeting on 22 October, and not on 2 October, the decision approved two draft agreements, namely an Agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Republic of Germany and an Agreement with the company. Both agreements are related and concern the achievement of a mutually agreed solution for the damage claimed by Germany for the unrealized investment of Briefly about the case. It is related to an unrealized investment project of the German company for the construction of a factory for the production of cement from slag. The project was launched in 2005 with the participation of the German company in the Bulgarian company Tsemeko. The project is secured by an investment guarantee from the federal government. A requirement for the implementation of the project was also obtained from an environmental impact assessment (EIA). Such authorisation fails to obtain the company until 2008, as a result of which the company suspends the project and is about to liquidate the company. Germany recognises the existence of a guarantee case under the existing investment guarantee project and compensates for the guarantee. Germany makes regression claims to the Republic of Bulgaria due to a violation of the Investment Promotion Treaty. This contract dates back to 1988. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the measure with the internal market does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid The timeline on the case will take about 15 minutes to introduce you to her. It's not that important, because the case is in the past and it's solved... That is, it is not resolved, but there are in fact decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, which clearly give the position of the Bulgarian side, of the company "Clusters" and of the German side. What is important to know from the chronology is that both the German company and the Bulgarian country in this case have made gaps in the process. The main omission made by the Ministry of Environment and Water is that it should have granted permission or refused that authorisation within one month, which was delayed for three years, which the Supreme Administrative Court ruled was unlawful. So there's guilt on both sides. The Ministry of Economy and Energy, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance are engaged to find a solution to this problem. Four joint expert meetings were held at which representatives of the two parties exchanged information related to the case history, legal assessment and analysis. The proposed agreement with the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of Germany provides for a solution to the problem by mutual agreement, with the German side agreeing that Bulgaria will pay only half of the damage. The projects in question were approved by the Council of Ministers as the basis for negotiations and agreed to sign them. They are not signed yet, expected signing next week. After that, there will be ratification, which answers your second question. Why is it important to resolve this case in favour of Bulgaria? The existing problem of the German company "Clusters" shows an extremely negative impact on the overall Bulgarian-German relations, including trade and economic areas. The lack of decisions on this case, which dates back to 2005, led to the freezing of investment guarantees by the German Government for projects in Bulgaria. I would like to emphasise that Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union for which such guarantees have not been issued in the last five years. My duty as economic minister is to promote these investments, foreign investments in Bulgaria. There are many agencies that are trying to stimulate and attract foreign capital in Bulgaria. Such cases are interfering, proven to hinder and do not help these investments to come to Bulgaria, respectively to increase the gross domestic product and the standard of the population. If this dispute is resolved, the investment guarantees for Bulgaria will be restored, which will strengthen the investment activity of the German companies, restore the confidence of the business community in Germany in the Bulgarian institutions and have sufficient guarantees for a favorable business climate in the country for the German business. About the two questions I didn't answer. No decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court or the KPC shall be violated. The legal side of the issue ended in 2010. From now on it is a question of an economic solution, a question of a business solution to this problem what are the benefits for Bulgaria from the recovery of these investment guarantees and what are the losses that Bulgaria suffers as a result of our lack of good relations with Germany and that therefore large investment projects cannot be realised due to the lack of these guarantees. If Bulgaria wants to be the only country in Europe that does not have such guarantees, it is partly your decision, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, because you must ratify this agreement... But as an economic minister, I am obliged to present this thing to the Council of Ministers and to tell you that the best thing for the economy is to resolve this dispute in a way that does not recognise guilt, mutual agreement, 50% we pay, 50% remains unpaid on the part of this investment guarantee. Regarding the rape, I think you said the rape on the part of the German side, our decision, of Bulgaria, is whether we want to attract foreign investments or not. This isn't about an Arbitration Court. Yes, there is no case before the Court of Arbitration. The German side has the assurance that this case will be resolved by mutual agreement. My proposal, as well as the Council of Ministers, is for this agreement to be by sharing this amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u51	Thank you, Minister Schonov. We have a chance to ask questions. The first round of questions is there a representative of the political party GERB? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Stoynev of BSP Left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u52	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are here and I ask you to stay until we have concluded the debate on this point, as this directly concerns the Ministry of Environment and Water. Dear Mr. Stonov, with your actions and then with the decision of the Council of Ministers, you de facto put a cross to the efforts of several negotiating teams to reach a way out of the case, which does not violate the Bulgarian state interest. So far, in the mandate of four governments, I repeat in the mandate of four governments, there was a permanent and consistent position on this case. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We de facto do not have an investment in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The responsibility of not realizing the project is not followed by the failure of the project "Tsemeko" Ltd., as it is for possible damages in connection with the investment guarantee taken by the German state, to be sought by the Bulgarian government. Mr. Minister, I do not see and I do not understand on what grounds you are reaching this agreement, all the more so that always and perhaps now the caretaker government has found a single position, but, as far as I know, there is no such position. Moreover, I know that the Ministry of Environment and Water has strongly opposed this agreement. The company Tsemeko is acting in violation of the country's anti-monopoly legislation and has failed to comply with the requirements of the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Construction in the Area in the process of its investment intention. There are no legal and factual grounds for recognition, even partially, of the German claim. It is true that negotiations have been conducted, it is true that we must fight, and I, as a minister, have fought for every investment and I wish it to the next minister. It is no coincidence that we ended it with more attracted foreign direct investments than we did in 2012, and now by the middle of the year we see that attracting foreign investments really might be better than what I really hope, of course, God willing to have a stable government, and 2013. But this in no way has such a huge impact on what you are showing here to the MPs. It is true that we must really clean up this problem. But how should the Bulgarian taxpayer pay for something that is not realized in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria?! Moreover, the Ministry of Environment and Water has repeatedly invited this investor to negotiate and provide all documents. There are no such documents. Of course, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: is there an official claim made by the German side for the compensation due, supported by official evidence, legal conclusions and arguments to prove clearly and categorically this claim on grounds and size? Or did you just decide how much the Bulgarian state must pay? It is you who have submitted this decision to the Council of Ministers. Of course, then I will ask you about other things that are really scandalous to me and I would like you to answer me about the position of the Ministry of Regional Development. But, Minister, given that... [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm graduating, Madam President. Given that there is no official position and that the German Government has never formally shown, no minister has committed to such a position, you de facto.............................................................................................. and to take political action and...................................................! I want you to answer me, Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u53	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u54	Yeah, sure. I want you to answer my question clearly and briefly yes or no, is there such an official position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u55	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u56	Mr. Stoinev, about the official position of the German government. There is a verbal note from the government, which is not an official position in which claims are made for the 4.2 million. Euros. That's the answer: no. [[(BSP LB:) There is no position, is there?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] As I mentioned... [[BSP LB.]] I've got three minutes though, don't I? As I mentioned before, this is not about crossing out the efforts of four previous governments, not whether there is an investment made on the territory of Bulgaria or not. It is a question of having a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which clearly and accurately states that the opinion of the MoEW came three years after a one-month period, or two years and 11 months, which provides sufficient grounds for the German side to claim that there are violations on both sides. That is why this agreement is achieved.. this damage to be divided into two. Mr. Stoynev, this separation of damage into two is something that was started during your term, so you have also been looking for a solution to this case, as we are all looking for. And I return to: what are the benefits and what are the risks of not issuing these investment guarantees to Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u57	Thank you, Minister Schonov. From the DPS Parliamentary Group, come in. You have no question. Mr. Dimitrov, please come in from the Reformation Unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, the question we want to ask you is this: what would happen if Bulgaria did not do this ratification? Or another way of putting it: if Parliament approves and ratifys this agreement, does this mean the unblocking from here on of all the programs that depend on the German side? We need a clear answer to make it clear what the effect and result are in one case, and what are the risks if this is not done? That is, we in the group of the Reformation Block are counting on you to get a clear answer: will this ratification, this adoption of the agreement in this form, mean that from now on all possible programs from the German country will be accessible to the Bulgarian state and to the Bulgarian citizens? This question also has the following subtext: if so, what means are we potentially talking about? Because ultimately we have to look at the general picture: what is the possible loss for the state, if we do one thing, or do the other way? And not just to have an endless debate about who is more guilty and who is most guilty, although it also makes sense that this conversation should be held to the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u59	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u60	Mr. Dimitrov, in case this agreement is ratified, then two million will have to be paid off. Euros. What's supposed to happen? Investment guarantees are something given at the request of the German government as a result of working with their companies. They haven't been issued in the last five years. When were they going to start publishing them again? Then when there will be attractive projects and when they think they have enough confidence in the Bulgarian system. Investors are generally such a class of people who need trust, which is being built over a long period of time. So it will take time before Bulgaria continues to sit high in the investment intentions of the German government when it comes to these sites. This agreement is one step in the right direction. If an agreement is not reached, first, these five years have been lost since 2009, but this is water that has passed under the bridge, there is no way to return. From now on, if no solution is found to this issue and this agreement is not reached, the German side must decide whether or not to bring an arbitration suit. If they do or do not, one thing is certain that the next two, three, five years we will continue to be the only country without such investment guarantees in the European Community. There is much talk about how direct and direct investments in Bulgaria increase. True, they went up last year and the first six months. Great! However, as a share of direct and direct investment in other countries, I mean, ours are ridiculous, petty small. Why? Because Bulgaria is not a good investment environment. One of the good things that we have is this flat tax of 10%, but the rest of the security, the laws, the justice system, how to solve similar cases, we're way behind. This will be a process that will continue in time to regain the trust of these investors. From this point of view, precise figures cannot present to you, but it is a matter of choice both the government and the National Assembly whether we want to be an open economy that stimulates competition and attracts foreign investment or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u61	Thank you, Minister Schonov. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front has the floor for questions. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u62	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I think we should explain to our colleagues what this is all about today. In fact, this whole deal started back in 2004 with the idea of building a cement plant on the territory of the Combine. Here it is appropriate to explain to colleagues that in fact all the difficulties that are happening today are the result of an appeal by the Commission for Protection of Competition, and I do not know why these things are not said, because the construction of this plant would lead to monopoly of the market and collapse of a huge part of the Bulgarian enterprises, which would prove practically in a state of uncompetitiveness. It would be good to say these things, but my question to you is actually: how and in what way did the merger of companies, which in time proved to owe serious taxes to the state, taxes which, if memory serves me, exceeded more than 200 million and in time by various governments, the owner of the Kremikovtsi, claimed these tax liabilities through various agreements to the NRA? After all, today we are faced with the situation of paying the 4 million. EUR, as they are, in my opinion at least, a question of demonstrating good commercial behaviour, because Bulgaria needs to attract foreign investments anyway, and in this case the German State was actually the guarantor of its own undertaking. My question, I do not know how much you will have an answer or are prepared, is: explain the technology in which today Bulgarian citizens are once again becoming payers of something for which they are not to blame? If that's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u63	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u64	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I definitely did not fully understand the question, but, if it comes to how this merger and the payment of taxes by the Kremikovtsi is obtained, I can definitely not answer you now because I am not familiar with the case. For me, he was done long before I took office. If you want, I can introduce you to the history of the case, as I mentioned, but this is not so important in this case, because we are talking here about an economic solution to a problem that has long been in the past. That's my answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u65	Thank you. Is there a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center? I won't. From Attack? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u66	Dear Minister, my first question was the attempt of the Council of Ministers to avoid the debate, that is, to avoid ratification in the National Assembly, as there is evidently. You have argued in your reply that there is no such debate, there is no such experience, as ratification will be carried out, that is, the agreement will be carried out, but it will be proposed for ratification once it is concluded. This is only a proposal with you, so it is not in the National Assembly. Maybe I misunderstood. I accept a priori that may be so, but if so, why do the text of the project, I quote verbatim, include text: The two countries refrain from spreading the content of the agreement. That's my question that I put at the fair, and you didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u67	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u68	Mr. Stanilov, I'm sorry, I missed your question. At the request of the German side, at their request, there is this confidentiality clause. Naturally, when the agreement in the National Assembly will be ratified, this clause will be dismissed, but it is of their own free will and therefore this text has not been disclosed. Very often, before signing the agreement, when such agreements are concluded and there are contracts with companies, you know that there may be such a clause on the request of one of the parties. That's my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u69	Thank you. From the ABB Parliamentary Group? I won't. Thank you. Second round of questions. Once again, from GERB, there are no questions. From BSP left Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Yes, it's true that negotiations have been conducted and I'm not hiding it. We have considered all sorts of options, but in no case have we agreed to pay for something which is de facto not realized on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. I agree that we must have good relations with all the Member States of the European Union, but this does not mean that it should be at the expense of the Bulgarian citizens, Mr. Minister. This investment has not been implemented and this EIA authorisation has not been granted. Any procedure, as you say, can be completed within the legally established deadline, but there must be action on both sides. The Ministry of Environment and Water over the years has repeatedly invited "Czemeko" to show the necessary documents so as to give them EIA. However, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, they have not provided such documents. I know how important this is for the Bulgarian economy and for the good business climate. I myself, when I entered office, economic growth was negative.. minus 0,3%, and left it to you, Minister, at 2.1%. Moreover, for the fourth quarter of 2013, we achieved 3% economic growth. My wish is because we all work here for Bulgaria, to have, of course, consistency in this policy. Mr. Minister, you've hired to pay $2 million. EUR for a non-existent investment and you yourself admitted that there is not a single official document signed by a relevant minister on the German side because they understand this case as well. They have de facto paid for something that doesn't exist. I'll go further. Minister, during the meeting of the Council of Ministers, did all parties agree with your opinion? What was the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water? The Minister is here, and she can tell. I am sure that it has also been consistent and has defended the position that four governments, four ministers have defended that was the opinion of the Legal Directorate. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is something scandalous. I would like to know what is the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva personally, because it is she, as far as I know, and this is my question to you, Minister, who recommended that a decision be taken in the dark without ratification of the Bulgarian Parliament. Is that right? Is there such an opinion to you, Minister, from the Ministry of Regional Development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u72	Dear Mr. Stoynev, there was no such opinion from the Minister of Regional Development on the last issue. On how the Ministry of the Environment voted, that is, this proposal was not supported by the Ministry of Environment and Water. The reason is very simple. I quote to you Decision of 11 July 2007. This is 2007. Long before much of the events took place: A decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Environment and Water should have ruled within one month of the submission of the application by means of a substantively motivated formal decision................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Failure to take a decision constitutes an unlawful silent refusal of the application of "Tsemeko." Two years after that decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ministry of Environment and Water comes up with the decision that "Tsemeko" does not have the qualities of a contracting entity. We're not talking about that $2 million. EUR, I stress the 2 million. EUR, not 4 million. EUR, because we pay 50%, is paid for some investment that has been made or has not been made. Here we are talking about lost benefits as a result of an illegal solution, i.e. silent refusal of the Ministry of Environment and Water between 2006 and 2009. There is no need to have a physical investment. When they made a decision, which is illegal, it leads to lost benefits and accordingly, if the decision was negative, but it came in 2007, the company could have used its resources elsewhere. However, they have also made mistakes, and that is why it comes to this agreement and a 50% agreement to share the blame and this problem to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u73	Thank you. There's a word on the DPS group. Is there a question? I won't. The Reformation Block? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u74	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, you said that an arbitration case against Bulgaria is likely to be filed, that is to say, there is such a danger. My question is this: did the Ministry of Economy possibly assess what the consequences of, God forbid, making such a claim and losing it? In my mind, hearing an arbitrage case against Bulgaria immediately appeared the case, which was brought against Bulgaria under the scheme "Belene" for more than 1 billion. Euros. I also thought of the case, which leads one of the energy distribution companies, and it is worth more than 1 billion. lv. I'm just tingling at the thought that there might be similar developments in this situation. My belief as a lawyer and a lawyer with a longstanding practice is that this and most of my colleagues share it is that any agreement between two parties is better than the best case won, because in a won case there is always a losing party. In the agreement, both sides have obviously compromised and should decide to be mutually acceptable, albeit not ideal for both parties. In this regard, I would ask you to answer the question regarding the danger to an arbitration case, and what extent would the action possibly be if this were judged? Also, in addition to this question, your personal assessment, possible agreement with the German side and the Federal Case Government, would it help to unblock the investments of German companies and Germany that are being made in Bulgaria, since the Federal Republic of Germany is one of the biggest investors in the Bulgarian economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u76	In order to be specific, an arbitration case may be registered, it may not be registered. It's the German side's decision, it's not our decision. If they take him, there is no legal analysis, but it will most likely be at the same price at which the total damage is 4.2 million. Euros. So the solution will be either zero or 4.2 million. EUR, which will have to pay the Bulgarian country. The German side may decide simply to continue not to give investment guarantees and not to bring an arbitration suit. Once again this will be their decision and again here it is not about paying some past investment, but is it about whether we want to pay 2 million. EUR and improve our relations with Germany in this case, or we want to continue as we have so far. Our proposal to the Council of Ministers is that it is much better to resolve this dispute by mutual agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. Schonov. Do the MPs from the Patriotic Front have a question? I won't. From the Bulgarian Democratic Center? No question. From Attack? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u78	According to the latest statistics, gross domestic product in Bulgaria is formed as follows: 27% - from production, 9% - from agriculture, and everything else from trade and services. Dear colleagues, this ratio shows that Bulgaria is a backward, undeveloped country at the lowest level on this ratio in Europe. As Minister Stoinev raised the topic of German investments, in the sense that he said that we all work here for Bulgaria, I think some work for Germany. But whatever! Having reached Germany, which is first in terms of investments in the common ranking in Bulgaria, I have a question to Mr. Minister as Minister of Economy....................................................................................................... Because it depends on us to consider Germany's attitude as a comprehensive policy towards us and the attitude, of course, of these transnational companies and to see who works for whom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. You have the floor, Mr. Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u80	Dear Mr. Stanilov, I do not have a specific answer to your question. But I would consider, if you'd allow me, the figures you've given me. The ratio between production and services actually has very little importance for the growth of the economy. Yes, there is such a thesis in the past that the growth of the economy is driven by production, until services are so important. One of the most developed countries in the world has a much greater share of services than production. So in a developed market economy where the invisible hand of capitalism makes these decisions, it is not our role to try to stimulate one production or another. Let's leave this at the market. [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of Ataka.]] What's important is that there are investments. Whether these investments will be in factories or will be in a call centre providing services, let the market decide. What has certainly been proven is that a small country like Bulgaria without foreign investment cannot achieve economic growth. If you look back, over the last 60-70 years, whether these investments have come from Russia, whether they have come from the European Union, this money must come from somewhere. We do not have this wealth, our gross domestic product per capita is very small. I just wanted to say that, as the question was raised, the answer would not be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the ABB? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! In any case, the two main points of discussion must be drawn up today. These are foreign direct investments in Bulgaria and last but not least the foreign trade reputation of Bulgaria. I believe that speculation is that the resolution of this case with a positive or negative opinion and opinion of the National Assembly would somehow change Bulgaria's foreign trade reputation and, last but not least, would change our strategy for foreign direct investment. I am impressed that such a national strategy for the development of foreign direct investment in Bulgaria is missing and because of the lack of one such case, such a case is a very convenient way to comment on these particular issues. I would like to ask the Minister exactly what is the strategy in terms of foreign direct investment, because there is a very serious risk at the moment that we will receive an outflow of foreign direct investment in voting on the budget update and the formation of the budget deficit, i.e. the negative budget balance. Is there such a strategy? Would you argue in what way exactly the refusal or acceptance and resolution of this case would change the environment of foreign direct investments in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u83	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u84	No changes were made to the Strategy to promote foreign investment during the caretaker government. There is an agency and several directorates in the ministry, where, as I mentioned before, there is work being done to stimulate these investments. Frankly, the results are desperate. We're talking investment, for example, between 2-5 million, ten of them, which is nothing. The reasons are complex and the way they are currently working is to create industrial zones where investors can be arranged everything about land, electricity, energy and just that when they come, they can immediately start a production or the creation of a service. But definitely what has a very negative impact on attracting foreign investment are the problems discussed in the media many times. These are the continuity of laws, predictability of the investment environment, legislation and the judicial system, respectively, so that trade disputes can be resolved quickly and effectively. Changes in these major areas of the state will take time and attracting foreign investments will grow gradually over time if these issues are resolved and these reforms are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u85	Thank you, Minister Schonov. We've exhausted the second round of questions. We move on to the opinions of each of the parliamentary groups. Are there any members of GERB? I won't. From BSP left Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The fact is that we really need to have a good relationship with all our trading partners. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just mention that, last year, Germany and I de facto had a positive trade balance, something that hasn't happened almost ever. This is our biggest trading partner, and also one of the biggest investors. Mr. Minister, at the same time the important thing is to comply with the legislation. Here it was mentioned by a colleague of ours that he was worried about possible arbitration. Yeah, but he can't be taken, and in the end, there's nothing to be taken for. This is realized by the German side.. there is no investment, no confiscated investment or expropriation, there is no such thing. At the same time, the German side has prevented this investor without informing the Bulgarian country. Again, it's not the Ministry of Environment and Water. The ministry has repeatedly called on this investor to show the necessary documents. You know, we don't have time here. Someone, if they like, I can introduce them to the chronology. She invited him to provide the documents as soon as possible to initiate the environmental assessment procedure, but no such document has been provided. At the same time, this investor took 4 million. Euros, but no investment. And there are questions for us: pay it yourself. What do you mean, Mr. Secretary?! What do you mean?! Four governments fought this case, defended the same position, and we always wanted to find the right solution. The German side understood him. However, you decide to submit to the Council of Ministers a decision on which even the caretaker government is not unanimous, does not stand behind this decision and does not support it. Next to you is Minister Jekova. You yourself said that she did not support it, and it is quite normal not to support it, because it is 2 million. Euros of Bulgarian taxpayers. It is true that we need to attract investments, but for example, what is preventing them from building, even they are building this plant right now. They were satisfied with the Bulgarian government, came to me and said they increased their investment. True, this may affect, but when an investor is satisfied, the example is much more important. At the same time, Minister, you missed the perfect opportunity to tell the truth. You said there was no document from the Ministry of Regional Development. Here's the document, Mr. Minister, which is from Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva's chief of staff to you. In the last sentence of page one, the following is said: This is the scandal, Minister. Mr. Bliznashki himself confessed, I think in Kotel or somewhere else, that an attempt was made to mislead him, but he did not agree. Was Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva pushing you to take these actions? Mr. Minister, that's a different subject. I apologize, Madam President, but a few days ago information came out that you revoked my order to withdraw a trade discovery from a German investor as well. You know there's a report of experts who say there was a forgery back in the day. I explained to the German ambassador and investors that I would take away their trade discovery because otherwise someone could sue me for corruption. There's an official document. From what I understand, you've cancelled this order, although that's a completely different subject. On what grounds I don't know, I heard from the media. At the same time, for this investor, when there is no investment realized, when even the Deputy Prime Minister, who we know is President Plevneliev's right hand, proposes to break the legislation and this goes into a meeting of the Council of Ministers and perhaps thanks to the Legal Department or other colleagues who stopped you, however, you missed an opportunity to tell the truth: there was such a document proposed, you also offered it to the Council of Ministers, thank God it didn't happen. Mr. Minister, that's $2 million. It is good for euros to pass through ratification by the National Assembly and to have a debate here. However, we must pay for an investment which is de facto not realized on Bulgarian territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u87	Thank you. I'm calling a half-hour break. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] We will continue to work with the opinions of the other parliamentary groups. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u88	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our work. Before the break we had reached the opinion of BSP left Bulgaria. Is the DPS gonna make a statement? The Reformation Block? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! It is important for us from the Reformation Block to have more transparency in this procedure and on the hearing with a view to the forthcoming ratification. Our appeal to you is to provide the National Assembly with the entire file and all the case files, as we see that many state authorities are involved, the case dates back at least from 2004-2005, has passed through many governments, the Competition Commission has given opinions, the Supreme Administrative Court has spoken several times. So it is important for us to be able to get a general idea before the forthcoming ratification of this decision. The decision itself could not be found on the public page of the Council of Ministers. I assume that it may not be available, so we appeal for it to be provided as well. For us, what is important in this case is to make maximum efforts to solve the problem and also to learn whether the possible solution in the way it is proposed will help to normalise the relationship between Bulgaria and the Federal Republic with regard to investment and in particular with regard to the use of the guarantee scheme provided by the Federal Government for investments abroad. This is also an appeal to you: if we may have more information from the Federal Republic itself about the upcoming ratification, whether through the embassy or in any other adequate way, this solution, as proposed, solves this problem or remains the political problem which has actually already been implied here and that this private legal case is practically reflecting on the relationship between the Federal Republic and Bulgaria with regard to investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. The Patriotic Front? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Minister, it is really imperative that you present in writing this whole case, which concerns the case, since the case in question nevertheless covers the management of five governments. And from this point of view, I personally get the impression that once again the Bulgarian people are hostage of corporate interests. Moreover, I personally believe that over the years someone has pressed the button of the relevant institutions, I mean state institutions to do one thing or another. It is perfectly normal to think it, because the so-called Cement plant, which had to be built, we have no idea whether it was really going to destroy the competition and become a monopoly on the Bulgarian market, but in the end we are put in the situation that the Bulgarian taxpayer must pay some 2 million. EUR or approximately 4 million. BGN, without having all this information needed to make a really informed decision. Moreover, we are placed in a situation of ignorance without knowing whether there is another way to resolve this situation by chance. At the same time, he raised the question, put Bulgaria's reputation as a partner, which should really attract foreign investment. Here it is good to remind Mr. Stoinev that under his management foreign investments came mainly from offshore companies. So when we talk about foreign investment, it's good to say things by their real names. Personally, I do not want Bulgaria to become an oasis of offshore companies with unclear origin of capital and investment. In addition, after all, the effect of these investments turns out to be absolutely unclear. What has happened in the years precisely because of this opaqueness is that Bulgaria has become an exporter of investment in the form that today we do not have the most important capital, and these are the young, knowledgeable and capable people that we, with inadequate policy, have invested in other developed countries. So I'm really asking you to take this commitment personally to present me with this whole file in writing so that I can introduce the Patriot Front Group when the time comes for ratification of this issue. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u92	Thank you to Mr. Bayraktarov. The word for opinion is the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Center of Democracy. Do you want the floor? There aren't any. "Attack"? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u93	I am pleased that all MPs should be pleased that today has been a discussion thanks to the question we have tabled on an obvious abuse. There's no other way to call a $4 million gift. lv. To a suspicious German firm. Why do you have to be suspicious? Because through political ties, she secured a guarantee from the German government. And the German government is also used to the time of Nazi Germany to treat Bulgaria as a protectorate from which it can profit. Minister, stop fooling the public that someone is investing from Western Europe and partly from Germany in Bulgaria. There's no such thing. What you call investors are colonists. On this issue, our programme is very clear and there you can read exactly what billions Bulgaria is robbing countries such as Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, France and others. I will only point to one example, it is led by statistics by the largest company in Bulgaria. It's German, that's how it goes. It steals our rare metals in the form of a company that has received for free one of our companies in Pirdop for mining copper and other rare metals. And derives billions of profits from Bulgaria. Not to mention the supermarkets, the hypermarkets, the Billas, the Metros and others who came here with protection from the government back then. The interagency committees provided them with all the conveniences to come and rob the Bulgarian manufacturer, to put him on his knees because he is currently on his knees, to make huge profits, to place the company's birthday fee, to the company on which the Bulgarian producer, who is trying to sell something in these supermarkets, to pay the birthday fee, and to pay the Bulgarian producer's birthday fee. Is that what you call investors? Is that the invisible hand in the market? Forget it, please stop using these concepts, because this concept is from the 18th century. Adam Smith himself denied it at the end of his life and realized that the market does not regulate, as there are always factors that are stronger than the market. In the case of the 21st century these factors are called transnational companies for which the market is just a joke. If you tell any boss of such a company that the invisible hand on the market determines, it will just laugh cynically at you because he knows very well how he enters countries like Bulgaria, how their budgets and opportunities are greater than the national capabilities of a country, and how he crushes everything like a roller. So let's stop talking about investors. Bulgaria is colonised. And right now, the case is this firm that we're talking about here, it's the following. You, with your offer and the help of the entire Council of Ministers, have given 4 million. lv. To a suspicious German firm. If this is your wish, perhaps for gratitude you will get a position in a German company as it was with Mrs. Kuneva. She did France a favor and then received a post in the supervision of a French bank. We'll see you somewhere in a German firm after Friday. I'm sure that makes sense. But if you are willing to give to a German company or to Germany 4 million, then contact your patron Rosen Plevneliev, who appointed you, and ask him to sell his estate to Halkidiki. It will cover this amount to give it to Germany. If you want to give away, not with our money. That's why your case we're dealing with here is for the D.A.'s office. We'll make sure he goes to the D.A.'s office. Although it is imported, so to speak, you have insured yourself by a decision of the Council of Ministers, I believe that this does not exonerate in advance, even if it has been signed by the entire Council of Ministers, the guilt of every one of those who have been irresponsible should not have, who has signed this decision. Finally, someone has to be responsible in Bulgaria, including for a decision of the Council of Ministers, for harming their country. If it happens and happens with the help of this National Assembly, it will be a precedent. If he passes by and goes away like many other cases where we are wronged, he will prove that nothing has changed and will not change. As a new government is to be voted here on Friday, we will address both the new government with this request and the prosecution. It is very fast, flashy; sometimes even before something has happened, it interferes. So I am convinced and now the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is objective, overparty and uncompromising, will intervene and will consider this case how you gave 4 million. lv. Four million leva is not a small amount if we consider them in pensions, in salaries or in aid, it will turn out that many people in Bulgaria could be saved with this money. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I insist that the Assembly come out with a clear attitude. It will be best to signal the prosecution to be given by the National Assembly the Presidency or by the so-called Presidential Council. If not, we'll bring it in from Attack. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Will an opinion be expressed by the ABB Parliamentary Group? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I just want to express my discontent that I have not received a clear answer to the questions I have raised. In no way did I understand the attitude of the case in relation to foreign direct investment with economic arguments and not other ones. And in no way did I understand our decision-making regarding the case how it would change Bulgaria's foreign trade reputation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u96	Thank you. That's what we're running out of procedure. Thanks to Minister Schonov. According to the National Assembly's Work Programme this week, we should move to point three on the basis of art. 102 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, which is acting at present, starting at 12.30 starts parliamentary control, so I declare a recess until 12.30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u97	We move on to the so-called situational control. In accordance with art. 102 of the Rules in the last one hour and a half of the meeting every first Wednesday of each month, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister appear before the National Assembly and respond to up-to-date oral questions concerning the general policy of the government addressed by MPs at the meeting itself. The questions referred may not contain requests for detailed numerical data. The right to two up-to-date oral questions has every single parliamentary group, and MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group are entitled to two questions in total. The order of asking the current questions is on the size of the parliamentary groups. I ask the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers to take their seats. Are we ready to begin, colleagues? [[Noise and lines.]] On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova will first ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers! My current blitz question is to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds Mrs. Tsanova and is focused on a very current topic of everyday life, I would say, related to the European funds, namely the approval of the operational programmes by the European Commission for the programming period 2014-2020. An extremely important topic in terms of the fact and the situation that, to our great regret, 2014 has turned out to be a zero year for European funding from the new programming period. We are already at the end of 2014, and there are still no approved and approved operational programmes, although a large part of them as project readiness and as texts of these operational programmes have been ready for more than a year and a half. We continue for months to receive comments and comments from the European Commission with further remarks. All this raises concern about the possibility or consequently the inability of these operational programmes to be approved by the end of 2014 and to start their implementation in 2015. Otherwise, we will be in a situation where even 2015 will be a zero year for the absorption of European funds from the new programming period 2014-2020, and this is extremely risky for the development of regions, beneficiaries, the economy, but also that the delay in approval can lead to serious, I would say, problems not only in the absorption of EU funds in terms of blocked programmes, but also in terms of budgetary implementation. Therefore, Mrs. Tsanova, my question to you is: what is the stage of approval; when can these operational programs be approved; what are the deadlines and what are the opportunities to start their implementation as quickly as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u99	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have an opportunity to answer. I remind the Members of the National Assembly that after a question asked within two minutes, a reply from the Minister within three minutes, a reply from the Member of the National Assembly, two minutes, a duplicate from the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister in this case, two minutes. You have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for your attention! Mrs. Pavlova, thank you for your question. Firstly, I would like to inform you that in the last three months, the ministries' teams have worked around the clock to reflect the comments that have been received from the European Commission on the new operational programmes. Just to remind you that these comments were received in the first half of August, immediately after the caretaker government took over its posts. I do not want to sound melodramatic, but there are problems on which the comments were longer than the operational programmes themselves, as many of the details to be agreed in the Partnership Agreement were removed from the Agreement itself and left to be resolved in preparation of the operational programmes. In this regard, I could report the following. As you know, we have already sent the Human Resources Development Programme, which will be approved in 2014, and the other programme that will be approved, is the Operational Programme. This is again a program that provides food packages for the most deprived. It will also be approved. In all other operational programmes, we are prepared to report on the progress made. I expect that on 7 November 2014 we will be able to send a final version which is agreed with the European Commission, respectively, to send it on an official path there and to be approved. Under Operational Programme "Regions in growth", Operational Programme "Environment", as you know, serious decisions had to be made as there was also a replacement of the approach. The Commission expects to see an integrated approach on a territorial basis for investment during the new programming period that corresponds to water reform, which is a precondition under the Partnership Agreement. Here I would like to report that we already have a concept that we have agreed with all stakeholders, especially with the National Association of Municipalities. It will be presented to you and if you accept this concept, it must be discussed with the European Commission, and this programme is also ready to be presented to the Commission, respectively. I'm in a hurry, but I want to go through time. There's an important detail I'd like to share with you. This information came from Brussels. As you know, so far or at least by the end of October, the European Commission has approved only 7 operational programmes of 200 for the whole of the European Union. So this is a zero year for the entire Union. There are many reasons. [[Sound signal that time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u101	Then in the back you will be able to finish as your time is up. This beep also applies to the other responsible Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers. Now there is an opportunity for a line Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I hope, however, that we will receive a specific answer when, because from what I have said so far, I understand that only the Human Resources Development Program is ready, approved and is able to sign an agreement on its approval and implementation. It's an extremely disturbing fact. As far as I am aware of the rules, procedures and communication by the European Commission, if these operational programmes are not dealt with and approved, then the agreement is not signed by the end of this year, the first possible moment at which this can happen is only June 2015, which automatically puts us in an extremely risky situation, which will lead to the reality of the Regional Development Programme, the Environment Programme, the Transport Operational Programme and the Competitiveness Programme of the Bulgarian economy to be able to actually start only in the summer of 2015, and on equal terms, if all the preconditions are met and if all the comments on them are duly reflected. This proves once again the situation that Bulgaria has not learned its lessons from the first programming period and will again find itself in a situation where the real implementation of projects, construction and installation activities in those projects that concern infrastructure, will not be able to start before 2016, because first, the operational programme itself needs to be approved, then to apply with projects, then to conduct tender procedures, for which we know it takes months, especially when there are appeals. Therefore, real infrastructure building activities before 2016 under none of these infrastructure operational programmes will be possible. That's my big concern. I hope you can give me arguments in the opposite direction. Otherwise, things are very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u103	A hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Tsanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u104	I would like to inform you here that this delay and zero year is largely due to a decision taken by the European Commission. Why? Due to the few approved programmes, the Commission was formally communicating with all Member States on 31 October, two steps were taken. The first is a re-negotiation of the entire 2015 budget, which will start in January 2015, i.e. the unused budgets by the Member States due to zero years must be reassigned, transferred in 2015. This process of discussion about this multiannual financial framework and approval, respectively by Parliament, will take time. The plan is May 2015. Then the other operational programmes can be approved. What is important to know is that we still have the opportunity to offer programmes that are ready for approval in 2014. We have a deadline by the end of November. I believe that we are ready to submit to the Commission for official approval, even if they are not formally approved by the Commission, but are presented in a final version, then we will be able to implement them and our budgetary commitment under the N+3 rule will be transferred for 2018, however. So there's a solution. What is important, however, is to know that we have prepared indicative work programmes under the different ministries and priority projects that are in an advanced stage can be refinanced by budget resources to be paid out at the moment when the programmes are approved. So zero 2015 shouldn't be allowed to have. I believe that we have the opportunity to approve several operational programmes before the end of the year. However, the European Commission imposed these rules. We are not satisfied with Bulgaria or the other Member States. That's the way it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Tsanova. A question from the group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u106	Madam President, Honourable Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is to Professor. Twins. Mr. Prime Minister, by reviewing the data submitted to the budget update, I am very impressed that the government is making expenditures that are not available in Budget 2014. When updating the budget in practice you will ask Parliament to confirm expenditure that is in breach of the Budget Act 2014. In this regard, the first part of the issue of legal aspects is: is this correct and how can you be sure that Parliament will vote on these costs that we have already incurred? Secondly, do you not think that cutting costs in some directions is in the wrong direction? First you increase the cost of bureaucratic purposes, and by looking at the data, as you are currently unable to react, but I Collegely want to tell you that capital expenditure is 10 12% lower than the other costs of administrative purposes where you are spending. It seems to me that capital expenditure has decreased. Secondly, it is noticed that you are cutting the investment programme in the Budget Act for 2014, in fact you are violating the philosophy of the law before it is changed by the regular government. Why? The most important part of the Budget Act for 2014 was that we set aside half a billion leva for investment purposes. I mean, don't you get into a contradiction instead of increasing budget spending to help the economy, we cut the branch on which we are sitting, and that is given that the signal from Europe is very clear? Mr. Juncker bet 300 billion. EUR, you know, in a special investment programme for exiting the crisis and a complete refusal of neoliberal ideas to withdraw from the economy and not to help stimulate aggregate demand. To sum up the two parts of the question. First of all, do you feel legally comfortable making expenditures that are not in the budget? Secondly, why cut capital costs instead of keeping them, if you can't increase and cut other costs? Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u107	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. For an answer, Prime Minister Georgi Bliznashki.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, the question you are raising is no doubt one of the issues that was widely discussed during the election campaign. This is one of the favorite ones that the caretaker government exceeds its powers. I must say that from a legal point of view, we have not violated the State Budget Implementation Act, because it is a matter of expenditure which is essential. We found the Fund for Disasters and Accidents virtually completely emptied to deal with the consequences of them, at a time when new rains and floods followed and we had to redirect funds to deal with this emergency situation. For your information, the central administration budget was significantly cut at the time of our inauguration. In practice, funds for the central administration were reduced by more than 20% as a result of a series of subsequent cuts. The last 5% made redundant were related to completing the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. So in a number of cases, in individual ministries, we have found a budget that has actually already been spent on over 80% of the central administration's funds have been spent at the time of our entry into office, and in some ministries the spending of these funds has been significantly higher. From this point of view, the budget update was essential and we have done everything necessary to bring it to your attention. It can only be regretted that the previous National Assembly, of which you yourself were an integral part, did not support the update of the budget. At the very first meetings we had with trade unions and so on, there were requests for payment of accounts that were not paid and we were forced to allocate significant funds to repay claims accumulated in the previous period. From this point of view, I am of the opinion that we are proposing an update that is essential, inevitable. In your will, as MPs, it is up to you to decide what the parameters of this update will be. I must say that we have done nothing to violate the State Budget Act by spending the limited resources at our disposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u109	Thank you, Professor. Twins. The line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u110	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Prime Minister, allow me to disagree. In the National Assembly we will discuss in detail the indicators because the numbers speak for themselves. Look, if you look at the dynamics of revenue and expenditure in the budget, you'll see that what I said is absolutely true, there is no spending. At the end of September the expenditure part moves around 70%, in the middle of the year the difference was half-one percent, so the increase in costs is outside the Budget Act 2014. As far as unforeseen circumstances are concerned, there are buffers in the budget. I would like to remind you that on the government's resignation, we had already voted 50 million for disasters and accidents. Isn't that right, colleague Chobanov? So these funds were provided. I haven't seen the press spend more than 50 million on disasters and accidents. Once again, I'd like to say you've probably been misled. In our view, the reduction of capital expenditure and the cutting of the investment programme in support of the Bulgarian municipalities would have led to the retention of the decline in growth and would have generated taxes, Mr. Prime Minister, both for municipalities and for the state. That is why other countries and peoples, and the European Union are mobilizing funds to invest, while we will not agree, both by the caretaker government, to listen to colleagues, and by the future government, we will want to see an investment programme, as the solution to social problems and the balancing of the budget goes through investments and through the production of goods and services, and not through the reduction of budget expenditure for investment purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u111	A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u112	Dear Mr. Gechev, I feel like we're talking about two different budgets. I hope that when you sit down and examine the update carefully, you will realize the extremely difficult legacy we have received from the government of Plamen Oresharski. Extremely heavy inheritance several unpaid payments! Multiple! My first meeting as Prime Minister, literally the next day, was with the leadership of professional alliances and raised the question of 12.5 million payments for unpaid accounts on the highway. Then came the bills for the irrigation systems and so on and so forth. Do not speculate on a budget in which the revenue was highly overvalued, and the expenditure was practically exhausted in the previous period. My request is and I am constantly repeating the update of the budget must be the first item on the agenda of the newly elected National Assembly in order to be able to find solutions to all other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u113	Question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u114	Madam President, honourable Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! My question is to Prime Minister Gemini. Mr. Prime Minister, on 1 August 2014, the Council of Ministers approved the Concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the application of direct payments in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 2015. The following is recorded: But what do you get? In the new Ordinance on the Terms and Conditions for Implementation of Direct Payments Schemes, art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, The amount of the annual payment under the scheme for each farmer shall be determined by art. 4 is recorded. 63, § 2 (a) (b) of Regulation (EU) 1307 when rounding the amounts below EUR 500, EUR 500. Hence, the question of the practical aspects of the application of the Ordinance, which is deeply contrary to the Concept under Regulation (EU) 1307 of the European Union. Under the small farmers support scheme, the borders range from 500 to 1250 euros, allowing the regulation to set aside 10% of the total direct payments or EUR 789 million in total. EUR for all direct payments. That's 78,9 million. EUR, if applied at a maximum of EUR 1250 for small farmers, would have been able to support 63 000 farms, and at EUR 500 " 157 000' holdings.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u115	Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, time is up. To recall that these questions are undesirable with specific numbers, as they will not be able to answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u116	Since the factual situation needs to be clarified, therefore.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u117	I understand they're part of your question. Finish your question and then you will have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u118	My question is this: Mr Prime Minister, is this how we support small farms by denying them access to European funds? Is this how you take care to support the competitiveness of small farmers in front of powerful tenants? Is this how you care about reducing the unemployed of people registered in social assistance? Is this how you support the failed pension and health funds? The main question: why is the Ordinance on the Terms and Conditions for Implementation of Direct Payments Schemes in its support for small agricultural holdings not in line with the concept adopted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2014 on the application of direct payments? In particular: why is the payment taken recorded up to EUR 500 (EUR 500) instead of EUR 1250 eligible under Regulation?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u119	Mrs. Ahmedova, I'm paying attention to the fact that a question is asked in this blitz control! You asked one basic and at least four other questions that I listed. Let's stick to it. It's blitz control! For an answer, Professor. Twins.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u120	Dear Member of the National Assembly, thank you for the question. Unfortunately, it has no current character, but is part of the history of the past few months. [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] You can do it as a question or a question to answer you in the same way, with specific data and figures. What I can tell you, since we have dealt with this issue, which I can say from the National Assembly's stand, is that if the concept is applied as voted, and it goes to the upper limit of 1250 euros, the funds will not reach at all for all producers. Therefore, in the decree of the Council of Ministers, with which we ruled on these issues, we came out of the amount available to us so that the funds could reach all the small producers that you are so vigorously trying to protect at this time. No one's been ignored. Much effort has been made to take into account realistically the available resources available to the country. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u121	Line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u122	Dear Prime Minister, I disagree with your answer because the figures speak differently from what you say. If you decide that you are right and with the 500 euros you are talking about, the farmer will be assisted in this case by 1000 BGN, according to the regulation he is obliged to be registered as a farmer, where 800 BGN will be registered. of that 1,000 leva. go for insurance payments, social and health insurance, which is why you are thus refusing farmers from the opportunity to benefit from European funds. If the concept of 1250 euros is adopted, then the effect is obtained by paying from these 1250 euros 800 levs. of the social and health system, the remainder remains to support the farmer. In my opinion, this must be done as it is written in the concept, because at the moment, the concentration of over 80% of the resource allocated to direct payments goes to 6% of farmers, which is a distortion of both the market and support, as well as of the support views.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u123	Thank you. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Prime Minister? No. There is a question on behalf of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Radan Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u124	Madam President, Prime Minister! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister, also responsible for the Ministry of Interior and the security services. In recent months, not to say years, in Bulgaria there is an obvious rude tendency to increase violence against people of non-Bulgarian ethnic origin, to people of different skin color and to people of different social orientation. It is more visible than media publications that we are talking about small organized groups, hooligans, but I think this could also be a much more serious crime than hooliganism, which create Bulgaria's image of a country where racism, xenophobia, a country that is inhospitable to people with different language, ethnicity or skin color. Most of the victims are people who are Bulgarian citizens, spouses of Bulgarian citizens, tourists in Bulgaria. In practice, it is not known to refer to criminally manifested people to think that it is a domestic scandal or a scandal between criminals. My question is: has there been a strategy drawn up? Have measures been taken by the Ministry of Interior, by the DANS, by the DGBOP to prevent such crimes in order to detect the apparently organised groups dealing with such crimes? I personally know and respect your personal and principled commitment to such problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I expect an answer from Deputy Prime Minister Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u126	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Kanev, thank you for asking. It is very important and we are really seeing an increase in this type of violence, which creates an image problem for the country and poisons, I would say, the climate in our society. The Ministry of Interior shall specifically address specific cases within those two months. We have discussed the problem with colleague Bakalov and they are doing with increased attention checks on these issues. Unfortunately, I can't say that Bulgaria has a long-term policy, well-echonised enough in this problem and precisely in this way formulated, because over the years, it is known by research of Bulgarian, international and humanitarian organisations and human rights organisations that over the years the racist motive for such crimes is underestimated. The trend is to consider them as domestic incidents, such as hooligan events, without focusing on the motivation with which they were committed. I am aware that colleagues at the SANS monitor and have special monitoring of this type of events, which is a step in the right direction. It is worth putting this topic separately in the context of a deeper consideration, indeed, in order to form a policy in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u127	A line, Mr. Kanev? You won't use it. Next up is a question from the group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u128	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, honourable representatives of Bulgarian electronic and printed media! I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Gemini. Mr. Bliznashki, you just said that you received a very heavy inheritance from Mr. Plamen Oresharski. You said that very well because this has a direct link to the question I want to ask you. At the beginning of your term of office as prime minister, you made one decision in the package. lv. of the President's Administration and 105 thousand. lv. of the Council for Electronic Media (SEM). In a situation of severe economic crisis, when the National Insurance Institute is in systemic deficit, when the Health Insurance Fund is on artificial breathing, when the Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad is literally under severe public pressure because of the inability to provide lifesaving operations for children in Bulgaria, your government has allowed itself something unacceptable and legally justified, but morally unforgivable. You gave 980,000. lv. of the Head of State Administration, which were smashed like this: 801 thousand. lv. for the international programme by the end of the year of Mr. Plevneliev and Mrs. Margarita Popova and unclear 179 thousand. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The first question is, isn't that the wrong money? The second issue concerns the Council for Electronic Media. I addressed my fellow Members from electronic and printed media for a reason. You gave away, at first glance, a modest sum of 105,000. lv. of the Board for Electronic Media to support and monitor the activities of media service providers. I ask you immediately, however, why the 105 thousand are given is not known. BGN after the Chairman of the Council for Electronic Media Assoc. Lozanov said, quote: The CEM is supported by fees and does not spend money on taxpayers, who, why, for what reasons did you make these expenses? If you can turn back time after this question of mine, don't you regret this cost you have made and the most important question, and it is legal: weren't you in conflict of interest when you gave money to President Plevneliev, who is your employer?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For an answer, Prime Minister Bliznashki.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u130	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Enchev, it could be expected that this question would be asked as it caused great unrest in the press. However, the truth is that these two institutions that you mention were in an extremely difficult situation. It is well known that the President of the Republic with his civil position, supporting the protests that began more than a year ago, when adopting the new budget, financial resources were sharply cut. Extremely cut to the point that he was unable to fully fulfil his international commitments as Head of State, representing the state in international relations, to the point that the presidential institution was not able to pay even for the services of the famous Squad 28. With the funds we gave to the President's institution, we partly compensated for this shortage. The second part of the sum "slightly over 100 thousand. BGN, which you mention, the funds were so limited that individual units were threatened to be unable to receive their remuneration in this institution. In this sense, we have not done anything extraordinary, because at first I believe that the Head of State represents the dignity of the state and we should no longer experiment on such occasions, that is, because of political resentment or any other bad moods to humiliate our own Head of State. That's what I mean about it. Just one note, perhaps not worth it, but still, because a widely used expression in some media is that the President of the Republic is my employer. I think you're wrong. It's about another type of constitutional relationship. The truth is, he's hiring the caretaker government, but he's not my employer. I bear all political responsibility for my own actions as Prime Minister and for the actions of the caretaker government which I have headed. I mean, it's a different kind of relationship. At the very least, the expression "worker" is misplaced. As far as the Electronic Media Council is concerned, this has been allocated to enable this institution to carry out its monitoring functions, which it carries out on the media during the election campaign. This is a function envisaged by law and we have decided that we must provide these funds so that the Council for Electronic Media can fully perform its functions during an election campaign that could be expected to be very tense. As Prime Minister who was directly responsible for the organisation, preparation and production of elections, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased with the way the Council for Electronic Media this year carried out its functions, including with its timely interventions, in order to impose sanctions, to pay attention, respectively, to some self-forgotten media, which violated the rules of the election struggle.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u131	Thank you, Mr. Gemini. Here's a line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u132	Mr. Bliznashki, Prime Minister, with all due respect to you, I couldn't figure out what the protests against the Oresharski government have to do with the topic I put on the money allocated to the Head of State. I immediately object to you this way. By the end of the year, Prime Minister, there are three months left. In three months, couldn't the Head of State and Vice President Margarita Popova show state wisdom for two months of humanity, social empathy and solidarity, and reduce their hostilities abroad, for some of which you remember? Two years ago, all the electronic media wrote outrageously about Mrs. Margarita Popova's visit to an exotic island. Two months to go! Two months! Can't these two months' money go to social needs for the poor, for the sick, for the underprivileged? And to conclude with that, because you said that the dignity of the Head of State and the dignity of the State should not be humiliated. In this way, the dignity of the state is humiliated when a person sacrifices the health and life of the poor, the sick, the disadvantaged and the children!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u134	Dear Mr. Enchev, I understand your pathos, but the elections are over, the election campaign is over, and I think we should make responsible statements from this tribune. The financial resources... [[Reply by MP Miglena Alexandrova.]] The financial resources of the President of the Republic were substantially cut in the adoption of last year's budget and by those funds that we have foreseen to carry out that minimum of international functions that belong to him under the Constitution, we partly compensated this financial shortage. Even with the 980,000. lv. there the budget of the presidential institution is significantly lower than the budget it had last year. So from this point of view, we really need to make savings, but I stress again, this must be done in a way that does not affect the dignity of ours, of the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u135	We are moving on to a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go. Mr. Stefan Kenov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! My question is to Mrs. Zaharieva. The crisis in KTB has many aspects and one of them is the involvement of municipalities and municipal budgets of municipalities that have put their funds there. In Bulgaria there are dozens of municipalities that have millions that are deposited on deposits and payment accounts at Corporate Commercial Bank. It's money on euro projects, money on their own income, it's money on their salaries. My specific question to you is: after the future of KTB is unclear, the end of the budget year is coming, what have you taken as Deputy Prime Minister, what are the decisions and what are the specific measures you have done so far, not to make it possible for Bulgarian citizens and employees of Bulgarian municipalities to remain without salaries at the end of the year and for municipalities to remain in a position not to be able to pay their debts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. For an answer, there is the floor of the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not in charge of the case, but I'll still tell you what we did. According to my information, there are about 100 million and all the money of the municipalities is guaranteed by government securities. What, as far as I know, the BNB has done, and also the Ministry of Finance, is that they have recommended selling these government securities so that municipalities can be compensated. The other thing we did as an office is to grant interest-free loans from the state budget of those municipalities that have money there so that they can really pay off their debts to both companies and workers and employees. I recall something that we did in the previous office to adopt a Regulation on the diversification of the risk of state money and currently there, in this bank, if this regulation had not been adopted, there would have been only 750 million. lv. only from energy. So I'm pretty sure in the previous cabinet, and I think we've been working on protecting government money. The Ministry of Regional Development also has 13 million. lv. there, related to the Operational Programme "Regional Development" in relation to the Residential Policy Programme "The low-interest co-financing loan fund." What we have done with this money is that we have signed framework agreements with ten banks at the moment to provide this low-interest lending until the case of CCB is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. A line? You won't use it. There is a question coming from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. There's a word for Mr. Chukolov. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is to you, Prime Minister. I suppose most of you have heard of this scandalous, brutal case that happened in the village of Malko Gradishte, Haskovo. My question is related to this event that happened just a few days ago. Mr. Prime Minister, I hope you're in class, as they say, about this incident, following its progress, hearing from the Home Secretary regularly, and so I'm going to ask you a question. As you know, in this incident, two elderly people were abused in a very sadistic way. Just to get an idea of what it's about: a severed scalp of an elderly woman, a grandfather who's been beaten up by a beastly, broken two bones of the forearm, the old man's head is broken in two places. A group of gypsies, I suppose, invades the house and beats the old people until they recognize where these 2500 levs are located, for which they have information and which is actually the purpose of their visit. My question to you, Mr. Bliznashki, is: what have you done as Prime Minister In the minutes I have left, there's something else I can tell you. When a face is shot or beaten on the street, then the whole police are raised.......................................is this way, are there any specific guidelines given to the Interior Minister to make it clear who these people are and to see Bulgaria? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u140	To answer, Prime Minister Bliznashki.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, in this case, I can do nothing but express my deep regret and empathy to the victims of this grave crime. From this point of view, I can only find that lately there have been such harsh cases, harsh attacks on the human personality, on the property of Bulgarian citizens. These are extremely unacceptable phenomena, and my personal position is that they are extremely unacceptable and intolerable. I hope that the Ministry of Interior will deal with the difficult situation and we will soon know the details of the perpetrators of this serious crime. That is what I can answer you because, anyway, it is not a question of my competence, but indeed I, like all of you, am very concerned about such phenomena and manifestations, as I cannot deny that I am deeply concerned about the cases of self-inflammation and so on. It is obvious that our society is experiencing a rather painful crisis situation. Hopefully we'll get out of it as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u142	The line, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u143	Mr. Bliznashki, it has just become clear that when it comes to attacking refugees, immigrants, aliens, even DANS is committed to investigating these cases. This is about a case that, if you put the tape back, remember, such cases happen, unfortunately, months, years and years ago. It's not an isolated case, it's a trend. Some call it domestic crime. The truth is, it's gypsy crime, there's nothing to hide about that here we need all the resources of the state. You have a few hours left as Prime Minister, let's remember you with something you've done and really done the right thing! You may order yourself, thousands of police officers may go there to turn it upside down and show that there is a state. Showing the elderly people who lock themselves up at night some of them rob them twice a night, as they shared with me in the village of Bear, lock themselves up for fear of meeting the perpetrator, because you don't know if they'll kill them, what they'll do. Let's make sure these people see that there's a country. This is my request to you. Take full advantage of the hours you have left.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u144	A hole, Mr. Gemini.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u145	Thanks for the recommendation. What I'd like to say is that a large-scale search operation is underway right now. May it come to the perpetrators and they be punished with all the strictness of the law. My request is not to identify these problems, because it is indeed about such a serious manifestation of domestic crime. [[Reply from "Attacka": "Ziganska."]] You may be right, but search activities are still underway, law enforcement is doing their duty. Let's hope we get the results of this operation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u146	There's a question from the ABB Parliamentary Group, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u147	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I am going to ask a specific question because in these debates that are currently being held here, we have not been able to understand which budget is faithful..... whether yours or the previous government? My question is: what does it require and what does it require to stop a project to repair the children's ward in Smolyan Hospital? What is this reason so imperative that Smolyan's sick children can't use a nice and real hospital? That is my specific question to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Your question is really specific and more like to be asked in the general order of questions and questions to ministers, but if any of you wish to answer and have information, as this is a very specific question... [[Noise and lines.]] Who are you putting it to? [[Reply of MP Petar Kadiev.]] Blitz controls ask general questions. [[Reply from Minister Yordan Christkov.]] You'll answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u149	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Prime Minister! Mr. Kadiev, my information is that this object is in the public investment program. There is a delay in the procedure itself and within that time limit it has not been completed and this work has therefore been terminated accordingly. Naturally, this is a priority subject which I am sure will be included in the budget for next year and the repairs will be carried out, but the reasons for stopping the project are purely technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u150	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u151	Sir, I can't agree with what you said because this is about a change in capital expenditure, it's about a hospital, it's about a children's ward. What is it that needs to be changed? What's the reason? What's so necessary? This isn't about huge funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. I recall that the Blitz controls are asking up-to-date oral questions concerning the general policy of the government, but as a first blitz control for this, the National Assembly also has on specific issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kadiev, once again I say that there is no selective approach here, i.e. any relation to this project. On the contrary, we believe that it is urgent and that this repair should be carried out, but the deadlines given by the previous government are by the end of July to prepare and request all projects. The caretaker government extended this deadline until September, but it has not been complied with in purely procedural terms, as far as I know, reasons why the project has not been implemented this year, but I am sure that it will be proposed in the capital expenditure budget for the next year at the Ministry of Health and will be implemented. That's the information I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u154	Thank you. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the group of GERB Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u155	Madam President, Members of Parliament, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Hristo Ivanov and he is on the topic of a single information system for countering crime, which we had the opportunity to talk about a while ago within the same form of control, but it was as if we had not received a good answer. This is an extremely important issue, honourable Members. This system has been working for over 20 years and tens of millions of levs have been spent on it. It may sound boring, but the lack of such a system, I can guarantee you this, has extremely adverse consequences that individual units that have some commitment to the fight against crime cannot speak to each other. His own statistics produce the Ministry of Interior, his own statistics produce the prosecution, his own statistics produce the result, even the individual prosecutors of individual regions produce their own statistics. A general picture of the same movement of a specific signal of crime cannot be obtained. The huge point at the time of submission of an application to the police department or prosecution is to be able to immediately trace where the file, proceedings, indictment, sentence, first, second, third instance and execution of the penalties. Over 20 years of time we wasted on this subject, tens of millions of levs we spent. Therefore, my question to Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov is precisely in this sense: in what state to date is this Unified information system to counter crime, in the sense whether it functions in full, for which we had a promise a few months ago, and in particular what is the commitment of the Interior Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. Mr. Ivanov, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u157	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Vuchkov, really, the topic of the Single Crime Counteraction Information System is extremely important. As you have pointed out, without the existence of a functioning such system, we do and conduct the criminal policy of the state literally in the dark, because we do not have adequate statistics not only on specific cases, but also on numerous trends that we should monitor and on the basis of which to assess the effectiveness of individual institutions, to plan the future. At present, coordinating responsibility for the construction of the Single Crime Counteraction Information System has the prosecution and specifically the investigation. Under her leadership, the cores are also built there. The software platform was built in the Ministry of Interior, but the necessary hardware was not purchased. For this, according to the calculations given to me by the Interior Ministry, another 6 million is needed. lv. In our time, there was a letter from the Ministry of Interior to the Finance asking that these funds be provided, but in view of the savings in which we are in the regime, they were left to be placed in the budget for next year. It is about money that will cover the purchase of servers, developing specific, additional modules within a common software platform. I'm not going into any more details because it requires competence that I don't have. However, at the moment there is an agreement between the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution, on the basis of which this type of information is exchanged as far as possible, but obviously not enough to be able to fully benefit from the comforts of this system. Indeed, the long work and the enormous spending of money in this system are not the examples of government that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u158	Thank you. There's no line. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u159	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! My question is to the official Prime Minister Georgi Bliznashki and is related to a scandal of the last days, namely the public procurement scandal announced by the Cabinet literally in the last days of the service mandate. I remind you that within a week, at the end of October, six ministers of the service announced public procurements of more than 5 million. BGN, including the Ministry of Investment Design, which is to be closed, announced a public contract of 130 thousand. lv. for the establishment of a Ordinance on the safe operation of temporary facilities by external experts, provided that the Office itself has staff capable of drawing up this regulation. The Ministry of Education and Science is about to spend 2 million. 200,000. lv. for an internal European electronic network, and it has announced this order without competition, with money from the state budget. I recall that the same ministry literally terminated two months ago an order of the same value for bathrooms for Bulgarian schools. Among the announced orders are the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which instructs external experts to teach employees how to do farm analyses. There is an order from the Ministry of Environment and Water for analysis of the introduction of administrative services for 600 thousand. BGN, and each administrative service will cost 100 thousand. BGN, which is also announced at the last minute. And an order from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for computers. I'd have missed the Justice Minister who put out a $1 million contract. 200,000. lv. for an information system for evidence of criminality, provided that it already exists. My question to you, Mr. Bliznashki, is related to the policy of the Cabinet in relation to public procurement and, in particular, what imposed the announcement of these public contracts at the last moment without being urgent, and some of them without being necessary at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Gemini, we're waiting for your answer. [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u161	The situation we are discussing is a bit strange because public procurement is planned at the beginning of the year. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] These costs were provided significantly earlier. In this sense, this is not a political issue that has not been the government's attention, but the relevant orders have deadlines anyway. These orders are carried out in this part of the year. It's a routine activity. There is no doubt that the administration needs to renew technical means, especially when it comes to computers. Here is the Minister of Justice and I suggest that he respond specifically to the question you asked him. I think it is important to hear what he has to tell you, as this is something really necessary and must be done right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u162	Thank you, Mr. Gemini. The concrete response of the Minister of Justice will be heard on tomorrow, in parliamentary control, because there is such a question from Mrs. Manolova. [[Reply from the National Representative Aliosman Imamov.]] Now a line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u163	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gemini, I do not accept your answer, because at least it contradicts your own statements and actions. In the early days of your term of office, you have suspended a sufficient number of public contracts, some of them, note, arguing that they were announced in the last days of the previous cabinet. This includes vital orders relating to emergency aid announced by the former Minister of Health, public procurement relating to agriculture. So the responsibility for the announcement cannot be passed on to those who planned the costs of the state at the beginning of this calendar year, because you definitely did not comply with this plan. In addition, let me tell you that the announcement of public procurement in the last days of a government always raises suspicions, and according to experts from the non-governmental sector, whom you know very well from your time as an active protester, I quote: The quote is from Mr. Bakardzhiev from the Institute for Legal Research and Analysis. Furthermore, dear Prime Minister, I have bothered to review the public procurements that your government has announced for the two months a service mandate of 87 contracts for over 40 million. BGN, among which, notice, abound for advertising materials, for consulting services, for providing publicity for projects, for preparing methodologies and analyses, all of this from external experts, provided that it could have been done by your experts, the caretaker government. [[Minister President Georgi Bliznashki is waiting for a response away from the stand. Laughter, excitement and lines: "Search!" by GERB.]] Which shows that money has been wasted freely and widely from other claims, according to you, a state budget. So the question of Oresharski's inheritance is your favorite, but I warn you that very soon on the agenda will be another question about your heritage, about how you spent the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, how much the office of the Bulgarian people cost. [[Applause from BSP LB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I will ask the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers not to disturb the MPs as they develop their questions or lines. We're listening to your coat, Mr. Gemini.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u165	I hope you haven't accepted my desire to respond to Mrs. Manolova as a threat to her physical integrity. [[Radio and single applause by GERB.]] Never crossed my mind. But I have to say that the costs you are talking about are necessary costs and they are provided for under relevant programmes. In this sense, you cannot disturb me with any suggestion of possible abuses, because I am very well aware of how difficult it was to solve a number of specific issues with underpaid funds from your favourite government of Plamen Oresharski. It's an extremely difficult situation! If you want to have a conversation on this subject, I remain available, but in reality it is about huge unpaid funds from the previous government. There was one attempt during the election campaign to make an suggestion. We have organised a single auction in connection with the election campaign with the voting machines that you introduced through the Election Code. This was the only case in which a newspaper, a printed media, tried to suggest possible abuses and then had to apologize several times publicly. So I recommend that you be extremely measured in your opinions and assessments for the work of the caretaker government. It has worked on a very strict austerity regime. To the last point, I can say that we have weighed what necessary means to direct them in what direction it is about radio and television, where things were before disaster, or aid in other directions. The situation is extremely difficult and I guarantee you that no serious abuse has been committed by the caretaker government. Of course, as the National Assembly you are entitled to do, including a survey, but I myself have nothing to worry about as far as the funds being spent are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u166	Thank you, Mr. Gemini. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has the word Mr. Hassan Ademov. But before that, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor by procedure for the manner of your sitting. You have indeed made a remark by Mr. Georgi Bliznashki about his behaviour in this House, but I believe that you should take more strongly into account in such cases. This is not just about a threat to colleague Maya Manolova, it is about respect for the MPs. Mr. Bliznashki has been a few mandates MP and should very well know that the word in this House is given by you, and he as such should wait his turn and be invited to take the attitude when you give him the floor. This is not a meeting of the Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u168	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. You have rightly noted that I have addressed to the Prime Minister and to the Deputy Prime Ministers that they should not have heard the question or the reply of a Member of the National Assembly to approach the stand for an answer. I felt it was wrong to interrupt Mrs. Manolova to make a remark at the time the action was done. Now Mr. Ademov has the floor to ask his question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Prof. Yordan Christkov. It is related to the topic of Early retirement of people working under the conditions of first and second categories of work. Dear Mr. Christkov, you are well aware that in § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code there is a text that says that: Until 31 December 2014, the first category of work provided, which have 10 years of insurance service and age, for women 47 years and 8 months, and for men, 52 years and 8 months, respectively, a sum of insurance service and age, and 94 points for women, and 100 points for men, as well as a second category that have 15 years of insurance service and age, respectively, for women 52 years and 8 months, and for men 57 years and 8 months respectively, 94 points of service and age for women, and 100 points for men, you also know about the other requirements set out in para. 2 and 3 of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. You know very well that there is tension in the mining and coal sector, there is tension in the sector of people working in the first and second categories of work, from the lack of clarity in what way and under what conditions they will benefit from the right of early retirement pension from occupational pension funds, the persons who must meet the relevant conditions. It is obvious that the time until the end of the year is extremely insufficient for these problems to be resolved. Therefore, my question to you is: what does the team of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy propose, obviously, to the next Minister of Labour and Social Policy, for a quick resolution of this case, so that the people of these industries can calm down accordingly? You know that the protest charge is extremely serious there. People are waiting for a solution to calm down and have clarity on what conditions they will retire from January 1st This appropriation
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u170	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mr. Christkov, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u171	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Prime Minister, fellow ministers! Indeed, there is a problem: if the legislation in force remains, it is impossible for professional funds to pay pensions to workers in first and second categories of work for several reasons from 1 January 2015. First of all, many of these people have insurance experience as categorical workers even before the year 2000, without participating in the professional funds at all. They also do not have accumulated funds in individual accounts. There are a second group of people who are involved, but part of it is before 2000, another part after 2000, and there is also not enough money accumulated. There are also those who have been involved for a long time, but the funds are not enough for two reasons: firstly, the collection rate in the professional funds was very low; and secondly, all this time - from 2000 onwards - has not increased the age of retirement for the category workers, which is why the period in which an early pension should be paid is increased: for the first category of work It is only natural that the funds allocated over a longer period of time give a smaller pension. What the caretaker government did to help the next government and Parliament was to develop a package of proposals for optimization of the insurance system, which was also a continuation of the Advisory Council, which worked with Dr. Ademov so that we could facilitate the process. I don't want to dwell on other proposals. Specially for workers in the first and second categories of work is proposed until 2029 when there will always be people with mixed internships before, and after 2000, to continue to act the § 4 in question and for those in the first and second categories of work to be able to retire under the same conditions, those who are now active, they were mentioned by Dr. Ademov. The other proposal relates to the source of payment of pensions, which must in any case be calculated in the way that they have been calculated so far. In this case, in the proposals of the caretaker government, which I hope will be awarded to the Minister of Labour on Friday, it is included to continue the current regime for 2015, i.e. the funds from the individual lot to be transferred to the National Insurance Institute, as it has been so far, and the payment of pensions to be made entirely by the NSI, I repeat at the same size, without any reductions. Then there are several options. For those for whom it is more favourable to receive their pensions from the occupational fund where there is no ceiling and there is opportunity to postpone retirement and accumulate more funds on the individual account, respectively, to receive a larger pension, to receive a pension from the occupational fund. For those who do not have enough funds to have mixed payment from the professional fund and the difference to the actual pension calculated under the Social Security Code to be paid by the National Insurance Institute. We also have proposals for this particular category of workers.. people working underground, underwater or in the air, who have rightly protested, as they are also subject to the early retirement period: 45 years of dismissal due to redundancies in the state, liquidation of the activity and so on, to assess how long the restructuring lasts, respectively, for this period of time to extend the retirement action under such conditions. At the same time, the possibility of suitable alternative employment in the regions where these people work is assessed. However, in any case, a corresponding increase in age in the first and second categories of work should also be envisaged, but according to that option offered for a third category of work, i.e. nowhere is there any indication as to how much age should be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u172	Thank you. The line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Christkov, thank you for the correct answer. He calmed down nearly 100,000. category workers waiting for the answer to the question in the part where you noted that retirement conditions regarding the age of individual categories of work are extended or there is a proposal to extend the period until 2029. However, you know very well that the proposal for an increase in age for this category, by the way, these categories are the only ones for which there is no increase in age from 2000 until now, unlike those working in a third category of work, will obviously not be met with approval. I ask the question because it also relates to the budget procedure for next year. That gives me reason to turn to professor. Gemini and remind him that in the Public Finance Act there is a text in art. 79, para. 4 which says that: the Council of Ministers through the Minister of Finance shall submit a proposal for a draft budget for the following year by 31 October of this year. Apparently, this semester's off. You probably know the reasons why the deadline is missed. However, the legislation in Bulgaria is written to be respected, not to seek any excuses for its violation. Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to submit the draft budget in the remaining days of the office. I know that your cabinet has adopted a protocol decision on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, but you have to submit in accordance with art. 79 draft budget for next year. This is the commitment of the current government, whether it is a professional government or a regular government. I am saying all this because the subject we are discussing and the question I am asking are relevant to the budget of state social security, to the public finances of the state, respectively, to the State Budget Act. I would like to remind you once again that this is the government's obligation by 31 October of this year to submit the draft budget for next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Will you use the right to the back? You don't want to. There is a question from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. General Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u175	Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers! Mr. Gemini, I have a few questions for you, but unfortunately I can only ask one, and for the others I will ask you separately. I've decided to raise the issue of the most serious public importance. One of the major scandals of modern times today in Bulgaria is the case with KTB. That's for sure. I'm sure years from now, novels will be written about what happened. Today we do not know the information that is being spread publicly, how credible it is, whether it is not used for suggestions and so on. My question is this. The State Agency is the institution that has a fundamental obligation under the law to monitor all risks and dangers to national security, including in the field of economy and finance. In such a huge scandal, in such a lack of what is claimed in billions, this institution should have, through its operational instruments, sensed this information ahead of time and taken preventative action by the state in order to prevent such huge funds being drained from such a banking institution, if true what has been claimed by the reports that have been commented, including in this House. Therefore, I would like to ask you: have you required the management of the State Agency to report to you what information has been intercepted with the specific means used by this institution about the events that took place at the Corporate Commercial Bank? And if such information was intercepted if it was analyzed, if the processes that were happening in that banking institution were traced, this information to which responsible state institutions was reported, and what measures were taken to prevent what happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u176	For an answer Prof. Twins.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u177	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Atanasov! Of course, such information I've requested. From the State Agency "National Security" issued a report on this topic. It can only be regretted that they, like a number of other institutions, have observed developments, but no concrete action has been taken when it was time for this to be taken. Subsequently, after we had already taken office, my recommendation to everyone was to refrain from inappropriate or hasty actions so that the competent authorities, in this case the Governing Council of the Bulgarian National Bank, could do their job. You are aware that using this toolbox is extremely delicate work. From this point of view, I cannot share the details of their opinions and conclusions, but as regards several specific inquiries concerning potential factors that would intervene in the course of the crisis, I have received timely information from them. That's what I'd like to say. I will not hide that in my work as prime minister of the caretaker government, I have been extremely cautious when I have had to use such information. It was no accident that we were reminded all along that our functions and tasks were limited both in time and in power. I regret that Mr. Ademov left the Chamber because he raised the issue of next year's budget. We have been repeatedly reminded that it is not the job of the caretaker government to deal with the 2015 budget. However, I have given instructions to start work and, by 31 October, there is an opening option for next year's budget. But perhaps it should be submitted by a regular political government broadcast by the National Assembly. There's an initial project to help the next government. What we are demanding is to adopt the State Budget update bill. I connected the two topics because I believe they are of the same order. Either way, we have found this crisis, it has far from begun with our government. We have found it and have adhered strictly to legal requirements and have avoided any inappropriate intervention in the activities of the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u178	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, with all due respect, I would like to tell you that I will not agree with what you have said. You are also a constitutionalist and I will remind you that art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution states: The Council of Ministers is responsible for public order and security in the country. It does not say whether it is a regular government or a service government, but is responding to this. And the institutions you run are responsible to you. So what does this mean: we were very careful and shouldn't have...? I know what the information is, and I will do whatever is necessary in this National Assembly to make the truth known. Because in due course at the average level in the operational services of Bulgaria there has been information about the processes in KTB and this information has been withheld in order not to take action. So I expected you to say that. And I do not see what can disturb the Bulgarian public peace if you tell this truth? In this regard, I would say that if what I know is true, there should have been resignations by now from those who have closed their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u180	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u181	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u182	There's a question coming from colleagues from the Patriotic Front Group. Mr. Krasimir Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u183	Honourable President, Prime Minister, colleagues! My question is to the Prime Minister. In August 2014, Northwestern Bulgaria suffered a severe natural disaster. Dozens of settlements were flooded, but the most seriously suffered in the city. Mizea, with more than 800 people being directly affected by the flood, and even to date 30 people are distressing.. they have no roof over their head and currently reside in one of the kindergartens. Whether the state's actions were adequate at this time, I will not comment. Maybe the best people in Miziya can answer that question. But all the measures that were taken were in the direction of eliminating the consequences of this disaster. Therefore, it is my current question: what action in prevention of such a future flood and such a tragedy has the caretaker government taken? What adjustments to the dikes, protective equipment and adjustments to the riverbed of the Skott River have been made? And is there any such action as to prevent us from witnessing such tragedies again in years to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u184	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u185	I can help Mr. Prime Minister with the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u186	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly, as regards the natural disaster in Northwestern Bulgaria related to the severe floods in particular in the city. Miziya, we've dealt with this as a government several times. I personally led the first meeting of the Commission on overcoming the consequences of disasters and accidents when those initial emergency measures were taken to help the poor population. We have acted in a timely manner, including with the provision of the necessary funds, so in this respect I am obliged to emphasise that the competent authorities and, above all, the Ministry of Interior have been very energetic on the ground. And it was no accident that a group of leaders, including volunteers, were rewarded for their actions at the scene. We also worked very well with the Bulgarian Red Cross, which on the spot provided assistance to the population, including funds, donations and so on. In the longer term, the question that you are raising concerns a long-term policy. It is very likely that Bulgaria will be facing similar disasters in the future. We have taken a number of measures, including checks of the water tanks located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and are a source of risk in the future. One of the things we have undertaken has been done at the initiative of our Commissioner Kristalina Georgieva. You know that she also went back to Bulgaria to assist in finding solutions to the accumulated problems. One of the things we have done is to address the European Commission to undertake monitoring for all potential sources of risks and threats, to do a comprehensive review of the country's territory at all, and to outline the picture of potential threats in the future. In this direction is used the experience of several European countries, where similar undertakings have already been undertaken; I think that in two countries in Britain and Finland. We turned to the European Commission and agreed with the help of foreign experts from leading countries, together with Bulgarian experts to make groups to give a comprehensive picture of potential risks and threats. This is what we have done. I hope it is an additional guarantee of greater security in dealing with such situations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u187	The line, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u188	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Indeed, many things have been done as a consequence of the flood. But this concern, which worries the people of Miziya, remains. I was personally in the city two days ago and saw that the situation has not changed in any way since the time of the disaster.. neither has the riverbed been cleaned, nor has there any dikes, protective facilities to protect the population. I will therefore insist that the new government accelerates the creation of such a comprehensive plan, which will prepare the region for the upcoming challenges. Acquiescences of the type that the amounts of rain were very large, in this tragic situation do not help the population in the affected regions.... not only to Miziya, but also to the whole of Bulgaria, where there were such floods.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u189	Thank you. Are you going to use a hole? No. Question on behalf of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I am convinced that in the course of the election struggle each of us has had to comment on the role, functions and place in the overall picture of the Bulgarian judiciary. On this occasion, I ask my question to the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for Justice, Home Affairs and Security and Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov. I ask you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to answer: what is your view of judicial reform, and in particular what is the place of the prosecutor's office in or outside the judiciary? In addition, how do you see the future of the investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u191	For an answer, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u192	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thank you very much for the question. The place of the Prosecutor's Office is naturally a matter of a constitutional nature. That is, it can only be decided by parliament, and that is according to Decision No 3 of the Grand National Assembly. As far as I'm concerned about my personal vision, it's that the prosecution's seat is in the judiciary. The Constitutional legislature, when regulating the current rules of the judiciary, has, in my view, shown wisdom by providing for the prosecution to be exported away from the executive power, from the temptations of the political and economic ones involved. Unfortunately, in the last 25 years this has not proved sufficient guarantee and we must make serious reforms. There are a series of findings of inefficiency, of political influence in and on the part of the Prosecutor's Office. These are problems that we have witnessed throughout the 25-year period, that is, they are not related to specific personalities of chief prosecutors, of interior ministers, but the problem exists, and it is systemic. In the draft Judicial Reform Strategy, which we proposed to discuss and leave to the next government to decide what to do with it, we have outlined steps that should lead to a conversation about building a new organisational model of the prosecution within the judiciary so as to increase its efficiency and real independence. That is to say, the promise of the prosecutor's independence to be met with specific content, which also depends on organisational measures. I must say, however, that we cannot expect the prosecution to be a penkeller. Dealing with the crime that we have in Bulgaria, at the different levels at which it exists, by Mr. Chukolov was asked a question about crime in small towns, organized crime, mafiaisation of our institutions, serious forms of corruption; all this requires a complex answer and here I will make a connection with your question about the investigation. We lack effective investigations and effective investigative institutions. In this regard, the situation in the Ministry of Interior is quite serious. There really needs to start a systematic discussion about the state of the investigating authorities within the Ministry of Interior so that we can have a systematic approach to this problem. The investigation must find your question, an answer precisely in the context of a comprehensive policy. I don't hire to say what should happen to the investigation, because for me, this question cannot be solved in a piece. This year the concept of state penal policy expires. The time will come for parliament and the government to develop a new concept in which to lay down long-term guidelines and how we will deal with problems, crime... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u193	A line, Mr. Haytov? You won't use it. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" "Mr. Ilian Todorov."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u194	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Mr. Gemini, I'd like to ask you a few questions. I'll try to be specific. As it has all become clear, your government has already made one decision, which states that by 2020, all Russian fighters must be removed from their weapons. It's about 15 pieces of MiG-29s, 6 pieces of MiG-21s, 14 bombers Su-25s. Your military minister, Mr. Shalamanov, here we should say that he is also an employee of NATO on leave, perhaps we should also talk about conflict of interest when making such statements. At the same time, I will give you a very quick example of countries that are members of NATO and the European Union, only a few of them, which, unlike us, do not take their Russian fighters, aircraft, helicopters off their weapons. The first country is Poland. There are 31 fighters there at the moment of armament. There are 32 fighters -- Sohoy-22 -- transport, passenger and rescue helicopters -- Mi-8 -- 10 units; helicopters -- Mi-17 -- 10 units. This armament of the Polish state leaves him, does not eliminate him as your plans are. Hungary is currently carrying 7 transport helicopters in their air force, as well as Ml-8. And our neighbor Romania, in which the armed air force has 36 fighters, as well as two Russian scouts, as well as two Russian aircraft. My question to you is: why did the other NATO and European Union member states, which we are part of, so with a simple hand, not destroy their armed forces, and you and your government decided to destroy the Bulgarian air force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u195	Thanks for asking, Mr. Todorov. We expect a response from Prime Minister Bliznashki.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u196	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am obliged to divert the suggestion made in the conclusion of the National Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria from the House of Ataka. There is no such decision as you refer to at all. I don't know where you get your information about a decision like that.! What we have done is a National program for rearming the Bulgarian army for the period until 2020. Something that, without any doubt, is on the agenda. Our army needs modernization in every direction, including from the point of view of re-arming, but what systems will be introduced in the future, all of this will be debated here in the National Assembly. The program's been submitted. It is at your disposal and you will be able to take account of all these issues, but there is no mention of the type of armaments that need to be put into action. These are specific issues that are yet to be debated, clarified and, last but not least, all of this depends on the financial opportunities that our country has, so it is not about giving up the available weapons. It stays in operation until we find better options, better possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u197	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u198	Mr. Bliznashki, when you ask where we get our information, I get information from official documents such as "Visia 2020" from the Bulgarian media as well. Yes, you're talking about some modernization, but I don't see what modernization it is for 600 million to buy three planes from the US or Greece. What if this is modernization?! In fact, what's going on with this whole plan that you've made? The following happens: that by 2020, Bulgaria will not have adequate air force, given the sphere and security system, and then Bulgaria will have to become quite strongly involved in the so-called NATO Smart Defence Plan. And when he joins this plan, Bulgarian aircraft will no longer protect the Bulgarian airspace, and it will be guarded by the Turkish army, i.e. a Turk will protect the Bulgarian airspace in 2020 with this Plan. That's pretty much what I'm trying to tell you. Just to add that, unfortunately, this caretaker government has continued the line and route of almost all governments in the last 25 years, which have led the Bulgarian army to a state of absolute disgrace. And with that I will finish: whoever does not feed his own army will feed another's army. Think about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u199	It's a hole, Mr. Gemini.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u200	Thank you for your concern about the state of the armed forces of the Bulgarian army. I regret that it was expressed in such a form because you managed to list all possible clichés that are used on the topic normally during the election campaign. I think that your attention has been presented with an extremely meaningful arming programme by 2020. You will be able to look at it, discuss it and rule on it. There is nowhere to talk about the purchase of airplanes "F-16s" third use and so on the phrases that you use. I leave such statements to your conscience. As Prime Minister, I am obliged to say that the proposed programme does not use such expressive means. We are all aware that the modernization of our army is on the agenda, and this is something that can no longer be postponed. It can only be regretted that too much time has been lost, especially in the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u201	Thank you, Mr. Gemini. There's a question from the ABB group. General Mihov, we're listening to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u202	Madam President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! A few speeches and questions actually motivate my question, too, but I'm going to have to work on it a little bit. It's about the state of our common national security system. As we all know, this government for a short term has had to experience and experience shaking a lot of the elements and, I would say, putting them in a state of unstable equilibrium from this system. In addition to the legacy of several governments, maintaining regulated poverty of our people on a wide scale, uncontrolled domestic crime, corrupt practices at all borders in border and customs control, in the foreign policy plan we should note the vague messages and assessments regarding the crisis in the broad Black Sea region, the attitude towards the Islamic State and the Bulgarian participation, I would say, the formulation of new threats on the eve of the NATO summit. In the internal plan and last week we noticed that we are hitting the migration pressure on Bulgaria the consequences and consequences on our territory, in a vague finding by the Foreign Ministry for close and medium-term assessments of this pressure. Not to mention integration policy or translation of the flow to Europe. We did not appreciate our example during the Kosovo crisis, where we saved lives and helped many Muslims attacking our western border. In addition, the work of interdepartmental committees and bodies in the Council of Ministers on export and import problems of special production, utilization of our ammunition and from abroad, the interaction between these structures and the Cos in the Ministry of Interior has led to the removal of dozens of lives and the permanent loss of...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u203	Please, Mr. Mihov, the two minutes are up. Put the question down.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u204	My conclusion is that in our country, in our country there is no interaction, subordination of power structures and unclear influence of the Advisory Council on National Security to the President and the Security Council towards the Prime Minister. My question is: after this short period of time, you, Mr. Prime Minister, have experienced changes in our national security level, do you consider it necessary for the next government and the present National Assembly to draw up a common law on our national security to ensure and ensure the responsibilities, the interaction of all structures with regard to the elements of national security, to facilitate the construction of the state budget with regard to the lasting balance between the quality of life of citizens in social economic terms and to ensure the security of citizens in military readiness and response on a real scale of time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u205	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. For an answer, Professor Gemini.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u206	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, I will not hide that I highly appreciate your competence in the matters on which you have just spoken. I really share your assessments and your concerns. As far as the caretaker government is concerned, I believe that it has, in an extremely responsible way, undertaken a series of undertakings which have led to the updating of our strategy in the field of armed forces and national security. I am referring to the adoption by the Security Council to the Government of the Vision of Bulgaria in NATO 2020. It caused some disagreements, as is known. I have been asked a question which I will answer tomorrow morning, I will give some details as far as these problems can be discussed publicly, but I believe that an important step has been taken forward anyway. In its final version, the Vision "2020" should receive the support of all responsible factors, including the national representation. On the basis of this Vision, the National Program for the Rearming of Our Army was also prepared. It implies an enhanced cooperation between the armed forces and the country's defence industry. A relevant forum was held on these issues with the participation of the Assistant Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Pact. A number of situations have been formed which, in my opinion, deserve a support from the National Assembly. In general, I believe that this programme, which is given to your attention, puts the problems on a principled basis and guides their solution in the right direction. I fully support your idea of adopting a national security law. It's a sick subject. She's already dragged herself through several parliaments. I see that there are enough competent people in this National Assembly who realize how important it is to have such a law. And I wish you to deal with this responsible task as soon as possible. Good luck to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u207	A line, General Mihov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u208	To make up for the time with which I delayed my speech, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-05.u209	Thank you, too. We've run out of blitz control. Parliamentary control announcements on 6 November 2014, Thursday, starting time "9:00" The first will answer the minister of service of the Republic of Bulgaria Georgi Bliznashki, four questions from the MPs: two questions - Maya Manolova; Valeri Zablyanov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on one question. The Deputy Minister of Economic Policy, Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Investment Design Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Andonov, Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov a general question, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Daniela Saveklieva and a group of MPs a common question, and the fifth question is from Mr. Manol Genov, as well as one question from the National Representative Lilyana Pavlova. Third in a row will answer the Minister of Economy and Energy Vassil Stonov: four questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov, two questions, Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva. The Minister of Health Miroslav Nenkov will answer a question from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Daniela Daritkova. The Minister of Interior Yordan Bakalov will answer three questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Atanas Merdjanov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Georgi Kadiev, and Ivan Valkov. Probably in the group listed representatives from BSP left Bulgaria somewhere there is a common issue, but the comma is so set that I cannot understand how the MPs are grouped. The Minister of Finance Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Cornelia Nino, and Rumen Gechev, and three questions from the MPs Lilyana Pavlova, Angel Naydenov and Georgi Tarnovalyski. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Minister of Education and Science Rumyana Kolarova will answer one question from the National Representative Milena Damyanova. The Minister of Defence Velizar Shalamanov will answer two questions from the MPs Angel Naydenov and Velizar Enchev. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Minister of Agriculture and Foods Vasil Grudev will answer three questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Stanislav Ivanov, and Rumen Hristov and one question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Minister of the Environment and Waters Svetlana Zhekova will answer two questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov and Dzhevdet Chakarov. On the basis of art. 90, para. Art. 3 and Art. 93, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - the Minister of the Interior Yordan Bakalov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Kadiev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Staff Minister for Youth and Sports Evgenia Radanova, on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The questions they have received today by 9:00 p.m. in accordance with the Rules cannot be answered because the 24-hour deadline has not expired because parliamentary control, instead of its usual day, Friday, has been withdrawn on Thursday by our decision of this morning. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session starting at 9:00, with parliamentary control. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
