ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, one message. I inform you that all drafts that have been submitted so far, which I notified to you yesterday, on the day of yesterday, 33 in number, drafts for decisions, 20 in number, and one report in the Forty-third National Assembly, which was received on yesterday's date including, have already been allocated to the relevant temporary committees, which we chose by fixed decisions on the day yesterday, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Temporary Budget and Finance Commission. They are to be made available to the Members of the National Assembly in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules in force at the time. According to yesterday's Programme for the Work of the National Assembly in this plenary week, we are about to proceed to a hearing of the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, the Minister of Interior and the Head of the Refugee Agency on the measures taken by the Council of Ministers on the problems with the increasing migratory pressure on Bulgaria. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. I don't see all the ministers who are invited. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Minister of Justice to the Chamber. Is Mr. Chirpanliev in the towers? We must vote on purpose for his admission into this Chamber. I propose that we vote on his admission to the Chamber in order to participate in the hearing for which a written request has been made by Members of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 184 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Which of the importers will develop... Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, to ask a question. The procedure in the Rules provides consecutively for each of the ministers and the persons from whom the hearing has been requested, so you will decide which of the ministers first to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u2	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! The topic of refugees is extremely worrying for our country because we are all witnessing that the military conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan continue, which creates an extremely worrying security system for Bulgaria. What do I mean? Currently, there are over 1 million people on Turkey's territory. Six hundred thousand. Syrians, about 60-80,000 Iraqis, over 20 30,000 Afghans, which means that in most part all these refugees want to go to Europe. They will, respectively, go either to Bulgaria or to Greece. What we are seeing as a policy in 2013-2014 is absolutely not in line with the challenge we have before our country today, and what I can clearly say is that it is a failure to comply with the Strategy that is related to migration, asylum and integration 2011-2020. In this regard, I can say that if we do not have an annual plan in 2014 to be developed by the then Deputy Prime Minister Tsvetlin Yovchev, who was responsible for the topic of refugees, then we also see that in the last three months there is again no action plan to be for 2014. We are also monitoring actions taken by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior together with other institutions for similar operations that we observed at the time the Gendarmerie was sent to rural areas. I can tell you that this has absolutely no effect, because there is no overall funding of the Strategy for Integration of Refugees, which is also a huge problem facing Bulgaria. The questions we want to ask you and the Minister of Interior are the following. How real are the persons who have entered the territory of the country with refugee status or humanitarian status? And what is extremely important: of all these checks that have been carried out, have checks been carried out in the system, has it been established whether there are persons entering the territory of the country, not from Turkey, but from Greece? We also want to know how many detained persons have entered illegally from Greece, because all the time we have focused our attention on Turkey, building facilities that have at least been given periodically by the Secretary-General, then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, we have almost 100% secured the security of the Bulgarian border... We are also extremely concerned about the problems that are currently with the fact that there is a discrepancy in the data that are in the State Agency for Refugees and in the automated information system of the State Agency for Refugees. I will quote a few figures that I think are important because this difference is very disturbing for the country's security and, of course, the practice that the State Agency for Refugees has undertaken to quickly remove all these refugees from these centres has enabled us to have extremely many individuals who are on the territory of the country in a free regime and, in particular, in Sofia, but no one is in any way in control, and if there is one, just say what it is. Also about those numbers I told you, registration for foreigners seeking protection. What we have as data from the State Agency for Refugees, we are talking about 8188 people, and what is as data in the automated information system is 6687. This difference of 1501 people where is it and why do such differences occur? The fact of medical insurance is also disturbing. We are all witnessing what is now as one of the greatest threats to the world. I would like to ask you here: there are many cases of accommodation of foreigners in the centers of Harmanli, Military ramp and Hostile, without taking down their health status, of making mandatory medical research, which, of course, creates prerequisites for a huge problem that could arise. Here I would like to ask the Minister of Interior: in this specialized operation, as it was announced in the public domain, were the appropriate measures taken for those illegally staying persons who had no status; which were the medical teams who checked their health status so that we could actually be calm that there were no individuals carrying certain viruses that could endanger Bulgaria's health and security? I will stop there because I think that with the topics that you should give to us, we will be able to formulate further questions and finally make a summary of the overall policy that is being made at the moment and has been done so far. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Interior: is the measure effective for the posting of 1200 staff from the Ministry of Interior system from the interior of the country, in particular from the regional departments and from the regional police departments of the Bulgarian-Turkish border? Does this not lead to an increase in the criminogenic factor for domestic crime, which we all put as a top priority in our election campaigns of all parliamentary parties? Do these costs, which are made annually, of about a million and a half, lead to a deepening of the problem, but not to its resolution? Because if we'd done a good estimate, we could have calculated that by a million. Five hundred thousand. lv. About 800 employees could be appointed to obtain the status of employees of the Ministry of Interior and to be in the areas where there can be really increased security, with physical presence, but in no case to expose small settlements, which today is a huge problem for Bulgaria. The way employees have been posted, I assure you that the consequences for domestic crime are enormous and I do not know how they will be resolved in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Do you have any preference in what order to listen to the two ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u4	We don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u5	You are giving me the order to listen to the answers of the two ministers. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u6	The older one, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u7	All right, we'll take it as a sergeant. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to answer first, then Minister Bakalov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u8	Good afternoon! Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for this opportunity! With me and Minister Bakalov, Petty Officership is a bit of a relative concept, but I'll start. First of all, I would like to thank Parliament for its rapid focus on this topic, because it is indeed, as you have pointed out, Mr. Tsvetanov, extremely important, and you have indeed noted some of the problematic policy areas in this regard. Of course, our main priority as an office was to maintain the welded system in working mode and not allow within the election period and the period immediately after the elections, the transition in management to reflect on the operation of the relevant systems. Thank God, because it's always a matter of some luck, we can't talk about any exacerbation of the situation, although obviously there is an increase in migratory pressure constantly and it reaches quite serious levels. I'll read the information I have. I don't know if she'll answer the specific questions you're asking. I assume that both Mr. Chirpanliev and colleague Bakalov will be able to contribute in this regard. By mid-October in the seven territorial divisions of the SAB... [[Noise and lines.]] Sorry, guys...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u9	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u10	Please be quiet in the hall, I don't hear what Minister Ivanov is saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u11	As of mid-October of the seven territorial units of the State Agency for Refugees, Banya, Pustrogor, Sofia, Vrajdebna, Military ramp, Harmanli and Kovachevtsi were accommodated 3 thousand. 298 persons with a total capacity of 6 thousand, i.e. the capacity utilisation rate is 55%. This is a very important indication to me that we still have the capacity to take on the increasing pressure. Four hundred and eight persons are accommodated at external addresses on their own account. It's 2,000. 505 persons, or 76%, are Syrian citizens. The next largest group is the citizens of Afghanistan -- 461 people, or 14%; Iraq -- 120 people, or 4%, and so on. As you can see, there is no significant contingent from the countries that are currently directly affected by the ebola, which you mentioned. One thousand seventy-six of these are children until the age of 18 and the unaccompanied minors are 89. Children up to the age of 5 - 225; children between 5 and 18 years of age - 342; children attending courses in Bulgarian language are 261; those enrolled in school - 45 and the children not covered by 472. The high percentage of children not covered is due to the fact that while migrants and refugees are in a status procedure, there is no legal reason for their children to be obliged to attend school. On the other hand, much of the newcomers are in transit to destinations in other EU countries and do not take advantage of the educational opportunities offered to their children. The situation will change radically after the adoption of a National Integration Plan, when migrants who have received status and reside on the territory of the country can be obliged under local legislation to send their children to school. For the months of January until October 2014 $6,000. 766 people have sought protection from us, like 3,000. 320 is granted refugee status; 1695 is a humanitarian status, 366 refusals are given and 1539 proceedings are terminated. By comparison, throughout the past year, i.e. in 2013, protection sought 7,000. 144 persons, refugee status, received 183, humanitarian 279, the refusals are 354 and the terminated proceedings are 824. Only until October 29, over 1,800 people have applied for protection. In both days by the end of the month we expect the figure to approach or exceed 2,000. souls, which is indeed an extremely high indicator. What we have done is that we used the National Operations Headquarters and on 8 October there was a meeting at which we reviewed the actions of the various bodies in it. The following decisions have been made: we have gathered information on the pressing problems of the institutions related to increased migration pressure and have entrusted them with offering opportunities for financial provision of the solutions they propose. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is also working on a draft decree for structuring the National Council on Migration and Integration with its composition. It has already been drawn up, that is, this advice has been filled out. The problem is that there is no administrative capacity towards it and this ultimately comes down to the update of the budget. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will organise and coordinate the institutions included in the National Operational Headquarters for the preparation of a draft National Action Plan on Integration for 2014. They are working on this national plan, Mr. Tsvetanov. Once again, the huge problem here is the availability of resources that must be foreseen either on the central budget or to be sought within the framework of European programmes. This is where the Ministry of Interior is working on an instrument for determining a responsible and audit body under the European Fund. There, as you know, there are allocated funds for Bulgaria. They are quite inadequate, in terms of the methodology under which they are calculated, but, anyway, they are a fact. The methodology is not fair to Bulgaria. I was doing drilling in Brussels whether there was a possibility that it could be corrected. The signals were not encouraging, but this is already an issue of active foreign policy, which the next government will have to structure. In your speech, you also focused very much on Turkey. We tried to activate the dialogue with Turkey, we had several meetings with the Turkish ambassador. As you know, the previous government had prepared and had signed a tripartite agreement between Bulgaria, Turkey and Greece, but due to the Turkish Interior Minister's inability to sign at the time, the signing did not happen. In our view, this is extremely important because, as you yourself have pointed out, the border obstruction facility cannot be regarded as sufficient or as the only measure to be applied. Our Turkish colleagues have a certain sensitivity to its existence and to its construction, and we really need to put it in the context of an upgrade of coordination and joint efforts. Yesterday I spoke with Ambassador Gokce and I have his assurances that the moment when the permanent government expressed its desire to sign the tripartite agreement, the Turkish side will be there for his signing. I think this is going to be a very important step. Of course, the real application of the agreement also depends on the establishment of a coordination centre that is on our territory, as you know. There are funds provided, but they are insufficient for the completion of the construction at least this is the information we receive from the district governor, and again it is a question that the regular government must assess whether to modify the project in any way or to provide the insufficient funds. We have not entered this financial matter because obviously it must be decided in the context of the budget update. That's what I wanted to focus on. I suppose the additional questions that will be asked will be able to answer additional topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u12	Thank you, Minister Ivanov. Now let's hear Minister Bakalov's answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u13	Dear President, I was going to say, fellow Members, honourable Members! The subject that is really being set and the hearing is currently being done is very important. For me it will clearly deepen and everyone who manages from now on should never forget that this topic will create the Republic of Bulgaria further problems and specific decisions must be made. Naturally, in order to make these specific decisions, there must also be political decisions. There has to be political will to make that happen. Since the beginning of August, because we have been since then, the efforts of the Ministry of Interior are primarily aimed at improving the fight against sewerage. From the beginning of the year until September 30, 472 persons who carry out this kind of activity have been detained. Only 218 of them were established and detained during the months of August and September, which is almost half the time of the caretaker government. In this month alone 121 persons are detained who are carrying out the channelling activity. That is why this meeting was held between the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Interior with all the District and District Directorates of the Ministry of Interior plus the Prosecutor's Office from these districts. A decision has been made and the information shows all this that the ultimate goal is really Europe, but at some point it happens that exactly Sofia is the position in which they want to come and from here to go to Europe. That's why this specialized police operation took place, no matter how many people don't approve of it. It was necessary for me. It was necessary above all for the citizens of Sofia, it was necessary above all for those who live on Pirotska Street, it was necessary for those who live near the points where there are such persons that we have established. In any case, a total of 4,000 sites, 11 200 persons were examined during this operation and 271 were detained, and 78 of them were transferred to the homes of the Directorate-General for Migration. In the police operation, 37 persons and 3 motor vehicles were identified, which were declared a general search. This means that these individuals, although they had to be detained, were walking quietly. In the region of the Bulgarian-Serbian border was also detained an armed canalman then a Bulgarian citizen, during transportation of 17 citizens of Syria and Afghanistan. Yes, these individuals from the 78 were transported to Elhovo and there they were given absolutely every examination. I'm going to look at the specific question here. From 6 October there is 100 per cent border control on the Bulgarian borders. Hundred percent! It doesn't matter which side it comes from, I'm talking about the Bulgarian-Turkish border, plus certain flights at the airport. This is by my command, by decision of the Ministry of Interior's management in relation to the disease................................................................................................... A total of 4325 third-country nationals were detained at the Bulgarian-Turkish border for the period from 1 January to 25 October 2014, which is a 50% reduction compared to the same period of 2013. The persons from Syria are pre-possessed by 2859, Afghanistan Of all identified persons, 3139 were detained at the green border and 1186 at the border crossing. One thing we are seeing and as a result of all this we are reacting is that as a result of tightening the regime of the Bulgarian-Turkish border there are more frequent attempts to pass through Turkey to Greece and from there to Bulgaria. As a result, we have taken additional measures to ensure really at the Bulgarian-Greek border. On the move of the Bulgarian-Greek border for the same period, 276 persons of third-country nationals were detained, such as 269 at the green border, and 7 at the border crossing. Since the beginning of the year, there has been an increase in attempts to cross the border illegally. I'll explain what I mean. Yes, we are watching the process, indeed every night there is pressure on our southern border with Turkey. Here, tonight I was told that there was a group of about 260 people who returned to Turkish territory. Since the time of the caretaker government, this indicator has also started to be monitored because these are people who want to move on to Bulgarian territory and from there to Europe. Now, that's really the pressure that's taking place. However, as a result of the measures taken and the non-transition of our territory, the other route of Turkey-Greece-Bulgaria was formed. Another is also noted, and it is also reported by the prosecution, in terms of pre-trial proceedings, which have been formed at the northern and western borders, there is more pressure than at the southern border. I mean, there are people who want to leave Bulgaria in the direction of Europe and are detained. One problem that is being identified is that our arrests at our district headquarters do not have these opportunities at the time of the detention of the persons where to accommodate them. It is therefore really necessary to make a political decision. For example, in the Ruse area the other day after my meeting with my colleagues at the Foreign Ministry, the decision was made to really work to establish, namely to complete such a detention centre in the Ruse region. As far as I've been told, it doesn't take much money. Since the beginning of the year, there has also been an increase in attempts to cross the exit illegally, as I have told you, 2140 people have been identified for the period 1 January, 25 October 2014, representing 26% more than the same period of 2013. This is what I was talking about. At the exit, most persons are detained at the Bulgarian-Serbian border, 1312 persons, and at the Bulgarian-Romanian border, 595 persons. Honourable colleagues, the big problem for Turkey's route is that the Greek country issues documents to refugees from Syria with the possibility of being in Greece for 6 months and to the others within one month. For those in possession of such documents, we use, of course, readmission. However, the problem is those who are not registered by the Greek side. Then things in their establishment really create a problem. What should you, as politicians, possibly take as a political decision? Mr. Tsvetanov mentioned the additional appointment of border police. Yes, I have taken such steps and I have proposed an amendment to art. No. 104, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior in order to increase the state staff of the Ministry. I really do. That's one option, because right now at our southern border, there are as many cops as there are in a whole area. This creates problems inside the country and there is no way for people from small towns to be protected by the police. This creates a problem and it is necessary to have such a solution. There's another option we're working on. Note that by 30 June 2015 from Rezovo to Svilengrad our southern border will be 100% under surveillance. The system will be completely complete. However, this is a system through which we will observe who is willing to cross the border. The system is not able to stop those who exert pressure. There has to be a human presence, and the next option is to have a fenced facility. For him, you have to make a decision to grant money, because the police at the border cost the budget of the Ministry of Interior and the state around 1 million. One hundred thousand. One million. And 200 grand a month. The 30km fence made by the previous ministry leadership costs about 7 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN, although there is, as far as I know, pre-trial proceedings on a signal from MPs. You see that decisions are not easy, but in the end you have to decide what we want. Do we want to stop refugees at our border with all the consequences? Because I am convinced that there will be pressure in this direction not only from structures, but from other countries as well as our neighbour will not be satisfied with all of this. Or we want as a result that from 1 October this year an Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union on readmission has entered into force, but it is conditional and it means that the Syrians who are mainly exerting this pressure cannot return it to Turkey. An agreement between Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey is yet to be signed. The other thing that we believe should be done, and in this Chamber, are legislative changes in the area of asylum to introduce restrictions on the area of residence and on the closed-ended centres of the State Agency for Refugees of the Council of Ministers. In our view, it will enable the pressure to be reduced. This measure is regulated in Directive 33/2013 of the European Union, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013. Next, building an engineering obstruction facility. You must distinguish between a obstruction facility and a fence. We think it's a good idea to make an obstruction facility. It will result in 100 percent observation, and hence mobile contacts and groups will be able to stop or keep those willing to cross our border. Next, financial provision of activities to develop a new plan for implementing the additional measures, as well as legal regulation for the functioning of the distribution centre in the town of Elhovo. It is not yet legally regulated. Sixth, the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Integrated Border Management Strategy for the period 2014-2020. The deputy host Ivanov reports to you on this point, as well as the full absorption of certain funds by the Homeland Security. In terms of financing under the European External Borders Fund, Annual Programme 2013, only contracts were concluded for the service cabinet period during the period August-October 2014 and funds were used by the European External Borders Fund at the amount of 3 million. 115,000. 608 BGN, which concern further development and maintenance of the national Schengen Information System, costing 2 million. 86,000. BGN 485. Maintenance of means of transport; delivery of technical means for detection of hidden persons in means of transport; system for recording heart beat heart. Once the regime is tightened at our southern border, this is the other option and the other pressure in quotes, I'd say. Cutting the tarp, settling inside the truck itself, passing through our entire territory. That's how we've established a lot of faces. That is why we need this and is included in the programme and in what we have signed as an agreement. Public procurement for 2 million has been announced. $120,000. £280. The next thing we have done is emergency measures under the External Borders Fund to deal with migratory pressures. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Cohesion $250,000. BGN 270. for emergency measures under this Fund. These funds continue to be used, and contracts totaling 1 million have been implemented for the period August-October 2014. Four hundred and forty thousand. They are for immediate needs of migrants as soon as they arrive at the border, for food, blankets, medical care, hygiene materials for the premises and accommodation, protective equipment, computers, printers and so on. Construction and repair activities to improve reception and accommodation conditions in Elhovo, Svilengrad, Malko Tarnovo, Bolyarovo and Sredets; maintenance and repair of technical equipment for monitoring of the border thermal imaging systems, gas analysers, cameras; purchase of spare parts, consumables; repair of service cars; use of security for the Bulgarian border crossings, as well as of European funds. In August, i.e. during the caretaker government, a multiannual Programme under the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund was prepared and presented for the sum of 12 million. 892 thousand. EUR 370 for the period from 2014 to 2020 In October this year was completed and approved Programme of the Internal Security Fund for the period 2014-2020, where 53 million were placed in the instrument. 154,000. EUR 840 for a number of different measures to improve border security. Thank you for your attention and your patience for listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u14	You will have the opportunity, Mr. Bakalov, I hope that in your questions you will further develop the specific information you have provided us. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the round of questions. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to two issues in accordance with the size criterion of the parliamentary group. I would like to ask you to address one of the three persons heard specifically - Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov, Minister Bakalov and Mr. Chirpanliev, who is also in the Chamber. On behalf of GERB, the first question will be asked by Mr. Vuchkov. We're listening, Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Since this is my first statement within this Parliament, allow me to congratulate you with the election of President, as well as all your Vice-Presidents. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! I have listened carefully to your statement and I fully agree with you that, at least with regard to this escalating problem, immigration pressure must be elementary continuity. Unfortunately, the previous minister seems to me to have taken a step back in this regard, and perhaps to a large extent the problems are also due to this. I have carefully read your idea, Mr. Bakalov, which was realized by placing the website of the Interior Ministry.. the idea to increase the state of the Ministry of Interior by 1700 people. From the motives that I have come to know in detail, it seems clear that they will be intended to deal with precisely the increasing immigration pressure. That means that another 1,700 border guards will probably be appointed. I put a question to you in the context of the idea that you also mentioned about completing an obstacle facility along the entire Bulgarian-Turkish border, which is 272 km: are these two ideas alternatives to each other? This is an important political issue. You're a politician maybe about 20 years, you've been president of the National Security Committee, it's really important to say responsible to us: are these alternative solutions or not? Is it really a good idea to build such a facility all over the Bulgarian-Turkish border about 300 km, and to hire additional 1,700 new border police? Or if we hire 1,700 new border guards, there won't be any need for such a facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. Minister Bakalov, a specific question to you? We are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u17	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Vuchkov! Yes, indeed, there is such a proposal. I didn't have to mention it as a t. 1. You, as a man who was in this system, know very well that the Ministry of Interior really needs a state, but this state is not covered. In other words, in the Ministry of Interior, no one could explain to me on the basis of what decisions they reached the figure 49 500! Nobody, absolutely! And people who have made such a decision! Why couldn't anyone explain to me that exactly 49,500 were needed by the Ministry of Interior?! For information to the Members of the National Assembly, I would say that this number is not even available at the moment.. has nothing to do with employment contracts and contracts with civil servants. At the moment, the employees are 48 200. So the number 49 500 is not covered at all. The next is that this number 49 500 is not even financially insured, which means that the Ministry of Interior is currently unable to announce any competition, can not appoint one person! That is why our team has taken a step towards changing this number in order not to allow us to have any buffer in emergency situations, as you have said, God forbid it does not happen, but the real number that seeks to achieve the ministry is 49 500. My request to you. When we have a government on a regular basis, my request is to support the one who is the Minister of Interior, the number 49 500 as a composition to be secured financially. I don't see them as alternatives. There are other options I'll tell you. One: you know that by June the system will be built on 100% monitoring Rezovo-Svilengrad by June. From there, respectively, if an agreement is signed with the Turkish side, if it triggers the trilateral center in Svilengrad, and there is only 300,000. BGN, but some countries use it as an excuse for not being able to make contact, so there will not even be a need to build such a facility. Since I am convinced that it will not be possible for the European Union to sign such an agreement on condition, not only does it seem to me, I am convinced that it is really necessary to take a political decision. I told you that a month in the Ministry of Interior, understand the state budget, is about 1 million. 200,000. Three hundred kilometers of fence about 7 million. Two hundred, three hundred Another question is how true this number is, since there is legal proceedings, but for me there are several options from which to choose the Bulgarian side. Bulgarian politicians must decide which option they will choose.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u18	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. There is a question expected from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Good or bad, the policy of the previous government was successful and useful to the state in terms of controlling the refugee wave, as many have forgotten that then the readiness of the Bulgarian state was zero! However, my question is to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because before you were appointed as Deputy Prime Minister of the caretaker government and Minister of Justice, you were an extremely active participant in refugee matters, especially their integration into the Bulgarian society. Moreover, your position was known for the fact that the refugees should not look at themselves as a threat but, above all, as an opportunity to see ourselves through other eyes. That's your quote, isn't it? You agree. My question is: You, as a real participant in the real policy of Bulgaria, what have you done for the integration of refugees in the Republic of Bulgaria? And what's more, when it was the famous conflict on September 15th and the children of refugees were not allowed into the school building, why did you hide, why didn't you take a position, why didn't you confront the then accusations of the minister of education who attacked the State Agency for Refugees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u20	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u21	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Merdjanov, thank you for your question. I am not sure that it is so important for the National Assembly to deal with my position of hiding or not hiding and so on. [[Arrivality in the Parliamentary Group of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u22	It's very important!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u23	If you want, I'll comment. I continue to maintain this position. It is really very important, when we talk on this topic, to keep in mind that Bulgaria also has humanitarian obligations, apart from the imperatives of its security. They're not mutually exclusive. I do not believe that opposition within a single cabinet on any occasion is a good way to build such a policy. I have also spoken with my colleague, Minister of Education, in the context of this case, and with the Agency for Refugees, I think we have found some solution to this problem. But thank you for the question, because it allows me to focus on something that I could not include in my previous speech. We must really very clearly understand.. are not the interests of security, the interests of our humanitarian duties are not mutually exclusive. Bulgaria is facing very serious image problems because it looks at refugees and its entire policy has been formulated through the prism of this being a threat that we just need to push away in the most decisive way possible. And this is a matter of long-term policy, not a matter of office for two months. You really need to structure things this way. Whether I have succeeded in the most adequate way in the public domain this thing to say in these two months, perhaps I tolerate criticism and perhaps you are right, but this is the situation. The point is really that we must also bear in mind this side of the question. Thank you. [[National Representative Atanas Merdjanov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u24	You only have the option under the Rules in the manner of conduct. Another procedure signed in the hearing won't happen. I hope you don't abuse the opportunity I'm giving you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u25	Thank you, Madam President. If I abuse you, you will remove me from the stands. From the ministers' statements, we have repeatedly suggested the need to invite the foreign minister. It is obvious that his participation in this hearing is mandatory, as many of the issues raised concern his competences and his political responsibilities in this case as Minister of Foreign Affairs. I therefore ask you to do what is necessary and to invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u26	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. I would like to remind you that on yesterday's day of the Presidential Council Mr. Kalfin made such a proposal, to which I replied that the hearing procedure for persons to whom a question was asked by the executive was written in the Rules. This is the Rules of the Forty-second National Assembly, where our current meetings are still being organised after we have no new ones. In all cases, a written question shall be provided for the person proposed to be heard. We do not have a national representative asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which is why there is no way for his hearing to unite with this procedure that we are currently on. We are moving on to a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Kardzhaliev will develop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u27	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! My questions are two. The first question is related to the topic which Minister Bakalov suggested, namely the topic concerning the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees. This question is to him and to the Director of the Agency for Refugees, and the second question is only to the Director. Last autumn, the Council of Ministers, respectively, the Ministry of Interior, proposed a bill which transposed two directives, not a single one, which pointed to Mr. Bakalov, namely Council Directive 2011/95 and Directive 2013/33. The particular thing about these two directives is that one had a December 2013 deadline. It concerned international protection, a new standard for refugees or regulation of the current one, the subject of subsidiary protection, the standards and living conditions, asylum rules and temporary protection and so on and so forth. A very strange and unfortunate development had this bill. Following conflicting opinions at first reading in the Chamber and in the Commission and after drawing up a group of the best experts on refugee law between first and second readings of this bill, a consensus was adopted which passed at second reading without any remark in the Committee on Human Rights, with the introduction of adjustments being MPs from three parliamentary groups leading parliamentary groups, but unfortunately due to the lack of quorum in the previous term, inefficient work of the Forty-second National Assembly the final adoption of second reading in the Chamber did not take place. In this regard, it is also the first question. Obviously this bill must be adopted: in what order and urgency do Mr. Chirpanliev and Mr. Bakalov see his acceptance? This would give us a guide to the work of the National Assembly on this topic. Secondly, there was only a letter from April this year, as I recall, from the European Commission with a question: why hasn't it been adopted until December, why hasn't the provision been fulfilled? Does Bulgaria tolerate sanctions regarding this topic? The second question is only to Mr. Chirpanliev. It is related to the topic, which was just developed, namely "there was a problem with the educational needs of the children and not in one village, but in three villages: the village of Kalishte, the village of Rozino and the village of Kovachevtsi. The refugee agency has issued an opinion that it will give prosecutors the mayors of these settlements. What is the result, Mr. Chirpanliev, of this initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u28	Mr. Kardzhaliev, to understand that you used the parliamentary group's right to ask two questions, but this cannot happen in one round. The first question is for the first round of questions asked, and the second round of questions will be only to Mr. Chirpanliev, whom you have already asked. To answer the general question to Mr. Bakalov and Mr. Chirpanliev, first question to Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u29	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Specifically, I said, yes, I did not for nothing that the adoption of such a law would improve the work by implementing the measure to reduce the cases of abuse of refugee law and would significantly improve control by control institutions in respect of persons seeking protection on our territory. We haven't missed all the deadlines after all. The deadline is July 20, 2015, but, how can I tell you, Mr. Kardzhaliev, when, as a deadline? Well, yesterday! If it were accepted, it would now act and it would help us in particular to be able to work in these closed-ended centres, and they also have a preventative effect, so the acceptance was yesterday! It's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u30	Thank you. Mr. Chirpanliev, there was also to you within the first question specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to wish you all health and dedication for Bulgaria! Before answering this question, I allow myself to share something very important, which is directly related to the question asked, namely one of the main problems that the State Agency for Refugees puts on all European and global forums is: firstly, that we have considered that the so-called This was initiated on 16 May this year in Athens at a meeting with the most affected countries of the European Union, namely Italy, Greece, Malta, Cyprus and we. Secondly, we are putting before our European partners the problem of solidarity and shared responsibility, namely that Bulgaria, according to conclusions, analyses of the European Commission, has increased the refugee rate more than any other European countries. We ask our European partners to order, come, get acquainted with the problems and help us. In this regard, I would like to emphasise that the adoption of the Law on Asylum and Refugees is extremely important because, apart from the two directives that have already been mentioned, and the first deadline for adoption was at the beginning of this year, it is yet another one. That is, there are three directives that we need to transpose into our legislation, so very much please, Madam President, that the Law on Asylums and Refugees be one of the first to be adopted by this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u32	Next, a question on behalf of the Reformation Block.. General Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u33	Dear Madam President, ministers, honourable Members! The problem with the refugee wave is extremely serious and I cannot agree here with certain speeches. It poses a serious risk to Bulgarian national security. This thing has not been realized in a timely manner by previous administrations, and so today we are wondering how to resolve matters. I have a question and I think I should get an answer from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, who as such is responsible for the security services and should have surveillance on the diplomatic activity of Bulgaria as well. I would like to say in advance, and it must be clear to all of us that this problem cannot be solved with the powers and resources of the Ministry of Interior. That's gotta be clear! These people, when they cross the border, what do we do with them?! I don't want to give answers. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is the diplomatic activity of the Bulgarian state not only by your government but also by the previous government to solve this problem together with the Republic of Turkey, as these people come from the territory of the Republic of Turkey? Bulgaria has had an agreement with Turkey since 1967, which I do not know to be denounced. There are designated mechanisms and bodies that should act in border incidents. I have repeatedly tried to understand whether the Bulgarian state has shown any activity to structure these organs and to act I have not understood what the truth is. But anyway: what are the actions taken by the Bulgarian authorities and by the Bulgarian institutions, more precisely by our diplomatic office, by the Foreign Ministry, to solve this problem together with the Republic of Turkey? I would like to stress that we cannot expect this issue to be resolved between the European Union and Turkey. We're at the border here and we're a sovereign state. That's my question. I mean, this facility, as they call it, this wire grid across the border is not gonna do any good. These actions were taken to steal some millions, and they were stolen. It was heard about a few million and then the whole thing went down. Is there an investigation into who stole 5-6 million from this building so far? By putting the wire fence along the land border, how do we protect the marine aquatoria? There are extremely many questions, but I would like to hear from you here in this Chamber what was done by the Bulgarian state and, more precisely, by the previous government? By the way, the former foreign minister must be here somewhere in the hall. What was undertaken by the Bulgarian state, by the former government through diplomatic channels to reduce the refugee flow towards Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u34	Thank you, General. Atanasov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! General Atanasov, thank you for the question. Firstly, if you understand that I am saying that the refugee wave does not cause problems for the Bulgarian security, in no way say this thing. I'm just saying that there is another aspect of this problem, otherwise, of course, this is an extremely serious challenge. What we've done for activation. Perhaps it is still better for the Foreign Ministry to respond more specifically and not enter their territory. But what we have done is that we have had quite intense contacts with the Republic of Turkey. I myself have had three conversations with the Turkish ambassador in this regard. I know that my colleague Mitov had meetings at different levels on the same subject and raised the question, but the node of issues that stand between Bulgaria and Turkey is quite complex. You have said, and quite rightly, that we will not be able to delegate dealing with this problem to the European Union, and this is an extremely short-sighted policy. At the same time, we must bear in mind that the Republic of Turkey is considering its attitude with Bulgaria in the context of greater objectives that it sets towards the European Union, and especially the desire to receive greater assistance, outside the pre-accession funds to which it is entitled. There is a complex, so to say, a complex of mutual problems that stand and opportunities for common interests and motivation for pressure on us precisely to put pressure on the European Union from there on. I don't think it makes any sense for me to answer what the previous government did, to give qualifications. The fact is that they have negotiated this agreement, which I think would be a very important upgrade of the convention that you mentioned. The next government must have the priority to sign it quickly and fully implement it. I agree with you and here my colleague Bakalov will be better placed to comment on the enclosure, or the border facility. But what I see from my contact with the Turkish side, their sensitivity on this subject is very high. They have their arguments, we have ours. The point is that this dialogue must be continued. I am not sure that it is adequately conducted at all levels, especially at the operational level. In two months, I cannot say that I have drawn a complete and final picture, but these issues are extremely important. They will have to stand before the next executive leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u36	Thank you, Minister Ivanov. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u37	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As someone who had contact with the refugees last year, I have a few questions that are very important. Last year, we had migratory pressure. We didn't know it, we didn't wait for it, we were as surprised as ever, and we have 7,000 refugees. We made a fence of $10 million, we gave $20 million to the police, extra security that stripped the entire country. So we actually gave 30 million to guard our borders. To date, refugees are just as much as last year. The result is the same. Of course, many have been returned. A lot more could have come in. Starting a fence is something that's very good. None of you will be convinced that instead of removing your front door and putting on a camera so the robbers can wave at him, it's much more aesthetic. There's no harm in having a door and a camera. There's no reason to have fences, cameras and all the other equipment that'll interfere with the passage. The question of how much the wall is going to cost us is a one-time act. How much will the purchase of additional technical equipment cost is a one-off act. A thousand and seven hundred people over the years will cost us a lot more. The very fact that we have so far given 30 million, and the result is more refugees than last year, shows that this is not the right path. We can talk for a long time, but time is short. In this regard, I have a few questions. We have 1,700 people. You've made a price for how much this entire resource will cost us for years. Secondly, the former Construction Forces unit can be extended four times and become exactly the centre it is now. Refugees in Sofia. It's wonderful: specialized police operations, today's 200, tomorrow's 100, the day after 300. If they didn't cross the border, did they come in a spaceship? Why doesn't it say where they came from, how they came and what caused it? This is clear evidence that every fifth refugee in Sofia has entered illegally and is not known where it is from. Where is the guarantee that your current proposal: all the resources for cameras and other deterrent facilities plus state will solve our problem and next year we will not be facing the exact same problem? For me, the solution is a fence from end to end, including a fence with a net so that animals do not cross, because every year we give 20 million because of foot-and-mouth disease and other epidemics, and this fence, a simple network, could stop them too. Why do you want all the resources for you? Are you sure this is gonna help us? By the way, I also have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister. The strategy you adopted this year means refugees... As a personal victim, I wanted to set up a camp in a village, a mayor from a particular political party opposed. Great, there's no camp! Let them be in Sofia of another mayor of the same political power, to turn Sofia into Beirut.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u38	Excuse me, Mr. Dimitrov, are you using your time for the second question? First question, I understand it's for Minister Bakalov. Are you asking a second question now?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u39	The strategy was submitted by Minister Bakalov, from his ministry. We are transferring the problem from the state on the strategy of all mayors to deal with the refugees by list from now on. The problem from one place is spreading across the country without the mayors knowing it. Do you think this is the way?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u40	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Minister Bakalov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u41	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I will have to say with certainty once again: no one will appoint 1,700 police officers. If you read the proposal to change the Order No 104, it will be seen and it will become clear that this is a buffer, these are hollow numbers. They are not financially insured and will not be financially insured. My request was to you financially to provide what is currently present. Like they did, no one could explain to me why it was 49 grand and 500. At the moment, only 46 thousand and 500 are financially provided. You know, a new law has been passed. Financially uninsured. No one has made a project account of how much this would actually cost the budget. This is precisely why it is necessary, once again, for the update of the budget of the Ministry of Interior to need the most update. And nothing else! It's not from the policeman, it's not from the minister. This is from the previous leadership. The truth is that once they have adopted this law, after it has to be passed this law, it must enter into force from 1 January 2015 and then with the new law to financially secure this number, for which no one could explain to me about 49 thousand and 500. And the difference of 1700 is the hollow count, if necessary, in emergency situations... I told you that these police officers who have been standing at the border for a year now cost the budget, the Ministry of Interior and the state about 1 million. One hundred thousand. One million. 200,000. lv. You do the math, you decide what you want. We're not talking about an encircling facility. Something I should also tell you: from this facility there is a redirection because it is 30 kilometers, of passing through other centres, through other areas. At the same time, this facility slows down those who want to go through it, but then we have the opportunity with mobile groups to react and keep them. Where else are they from in Sofia? I thought I made myself very clear from the start. What's the route? The last route is Turkey "Greece" - Bulgaria - Western Europe. That's the route!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u42	Thank you, Minister Bakalov. Representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center for a Question. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is this: are we, as political forces, inclined to have a state border again, or are we not inclined? Bulgaria currently has no state border. It only exists on probation. The efforts made by you at the Bulgarian-Turkish border seemed to have given some effect, but I assure you that at our western border and at our southern border, which is internal with the European Union, every person can pass peacefully where he wants. We actually have checkpoints. Speaking of that notorious enclosure, are we talking about a signal-security system, the so-called clone, or are we talking about a fence you're going to a store for, take two pliers, cut and pass? My question to you is as follows: what would be more profitable for Bulgaria to restore the state border as it exists as a real state border, as one that can stop the offenders of the state border who may be a threat to our national security, do we have this financial resource or do we not have this financial resource? Because it turns out that technical surveillance isn't working. She needs people, she needs resources. My question is as follows: do you see the restoration of the Bulgarian state border in its genuinely real form, I am not talking about the internal border with the European Union, but about the external border of Bulgaria, which is with the Republic of Turkey, with Serbia and Macedonia, or do you not see it? Do we even have a chance to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Minister Bakalov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Petrov, it's all a matter of account. I told you that the presence of policemen cost the budget around 1.1.. 1.2 million. lv. a month. But there are other effects. This means that the entire Ruse district has not a single police officer, which means that there is no way for the police to do better with domestic crime. You see, things are tied up. Many times I have already had to comment in this House that there is a need for a political solution for the construction of such an encircling facility, which is a matter of account. For example, what has been done now, and what is about 30 kilometers, is worth - I quote from memory - 7 million. 135,000. BGN, 30 kilometers. Another point is that the account previously was much lower, but in the process of work it rose to 7.3 million. lv. That is why it is necessary to take this political decision and also to secure the money. I would like to say to you that the construction of video surveillance from the Rezovska River to Svilengrad is financed by European projects, not by the Bulgarian budget. This will end on 30 June 2015 as a 100% video surveillance. Yes, indeed you are right. It will enable us to observe in depth who is moving towards our border, but it will not stop them. Then there must already be mobile groups that react to stop them. You can see that things are not so simple, but it still takes a political solution to resolve the issue, as for example in the Foreign Ministry we have a working group between the Foreign and Internal Ministry for the completion of the Centre in Svilengrad for the tripartite meetings. It is an excuse for one of the countries that these trilateral meetings are not taking place. And it's not a big amount. As well as after the signing of the readmission agreement between the European Union and Turkey, the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry is having these talks about signing such a readmission agreement between Bulgaria and Turkey. So in spite of everything, if there is a political solution, then the real account will be made and you will see what is more effective. Let's not forget that the construction of such a facility stops smuggling as well. This should not be missed, as well as foot-and-mouth disease that can spread to animals. This is, after all, Parliament's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u46	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka, come in for a question, Mrs Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u47	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I find it necessary, first of all, to remind you that we need to speak professionally and with the right concepts. There are no refugees in Bulgaria! In Bulgaria, there are immigrants or, if we use the Bulgarian word, aliens who are being trafficked from Turkey to Bulgaria for a purpose. It is a long-standing, decade-long practice of the Turkish state, especially now under its neo-Eomanian regime. Look at how many notes there are only the Italian government for the deliberate transfer of Kurds, for example, to the European continent under the label of refugees. In the Convention on Refugees........................................................................................ 31, t. 1 and in the Bulgarian Law on Asylums and Refugees........................................................................................... 4, para. 5, it says who's a refugee and who's not a refugee. In Bulgaria, a human contingent with social status is transferred from the camps prepared by the Turkish state to the Syrian rebels, if you will, which creates a mortal threat to the Bulgarian statehood. That's what I'm talking about. To the facility. Of course, building a protective facility around the whole Bulgarian-Turkish border because Turkey is the threat, I'm sorry, Greece is not such a big threat to Bulgaria and it has never been a construction of it was a proposal of the party Ataka. We welcome the construction of even this 30km stretch. Because she's a 30-kilometer girl doesn't solve the problem, of course, but she was an important political sign of Erdogan's neo-Osmanian regime. We insist and support the construction of a high 8-10-meter three-layer wall along the border, which is built at the border of the Spanish enclaves of Seta and Mellila with Morocco, which is on the border between Greece and Turkey, which is on the border of Israel with the Islamic countries, and which, by the way, will now be built at Calais, that fence with which the NATO elite was guarded by folk love in Wales, is now given to France to stop these Islamic masses. I have a question: first of all, the bills don't come out, gentlemen. On November 30, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior Vasil Marinov said that on November 30, 2013 there are 11 072 foreigners under the label. Since then the refugee flow has not stopped, they are already crossing the sea border and you continue to claim that they are 7-8-11 thousand. Define yourself! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Secondly, it is not true that refugee children are 89. On June 30 they were 172 children, again according to the Ministry of Interior. I have this question: how much money from these thousands of dollars and a euro that these aliens are smuggling is being detained by, and by whom? What's the amount? Because, as we know, they commit a double crime once, cross the border into the unauthorized places, and secondly, smuggle currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u48	Who did you ask your question to, Mrs. Tasheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u49	I'm asking the question to Minister Bakalov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u50	Thank you. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you very much to stick to the Rules of Procedure. After one MP has the opportunity to develop the issue in two minutes, you provided four minutes and eleven seconds. Follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u52	I didn't limit anyone until now. I accept your remark. My request is that all colleagues adhere strictly to the rules. Here you are, Mr. Bakalov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Tasheva! Don't put me in mode to interpret statements from a former Deputy Minister. Something I've said yes, but what did Vassil Marinov say? I didn't see him, I didn't hear him say that first. Secondly, no one has ever mentioned that Greece is any threat. It's more likely that it's starting to reroute in that direction. And that is why, not for nothing, for the third time, I will stress: if you make a political decision to build a impeding facility from Svilengrad to Rezovo, there will be a redirection of the routes. The Ministry of Interior is following this, and you should never forget it, and you should keep that in mind, too. I told you about the sea route for a reason. So let's still be right about each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. Taking a note from Mrs. Ahmedova, I ask you very much in two minutes, from here on in the second minute I will give you all a warning and take you away. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! I sincerely regret that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not here at the moment, as the issue of the problem of refugees is rather a subject of foreign policy. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, he is the main portfolio that should answer to each of us regarding the main points of foreign policy and whether there is really concrete pressure on Bulgaria. Having come out of the foreign policy barrier, there are many questions that concern the internal space in Bulgaria, and they are already from the minister of justice, the minister of internal affairs. The various issues and problems that then take place can at least be summarized in several directions, one of which, however, is the lack of any coordination between the institutions in Bulgaria. You remember very well the case of the Municipality of Muglige, where they learned that they had to shelter refugees for whom they received information at the time of their arrival with information from the Refugee Agency. My specific question is to Minister Bakalov. I still can't understand whether there is a contradiction between your positions, i.e. the fence and the facility in question, which is built at 30 kilometers.... will it be a long-term strategy of Bulgaria? Will there be a need to cover the remaining 240 kilometers? I ask you to answer the question is there a contradiction, as, on the one hand, we have heard from you that this is perhaps a long-term strategy, from the Deputy Prime Minister we have heard that it is not exactly so? I'm asking for more clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u56	Minister Bakalov, your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u57	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Belemezov, I'm going to have to repeat myself or repeat myself again. The Ministry of Interior has developed different options - there is an option with an increase in the composition of the Ministry of Interior; there is an option with the construction of a complete facility; there is an option with 100% video surveillance, plus a readmission contract. However, these are options developed by the Ministry of Interior, but political decisions must be made by you. I hope this time I'll really be very well understood, as for example, and that no 1700 police officers will be appointed. It's a buffer that, God forbid, if you have to use it. So these are the different options that you need to discuss, take them as a decision and implement them. There is no way in the position of the Minister of Interior to work out the overall policy. It's made, but the decisions are yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. Moving on to the next second round of questions. We start with the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me at the beginning before I ask the question a very brief comment. Until now in this House, no one is talking about the main instrument for reducing migration flows, called the return policy. In the past year and a half it has not been clear how many illegal immigrants have been returned to their countries of origin and, above all, what is the number of those who have nothing to do with Syria or Iraq. I never got an answer to the many questions I asked to the previous management of the Ministry of Interior. The question I would like to ask, and it is to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Mr. President of the State Agency for Refugees: Dear gentlemen, how much is the money actually spent in the last year and two months on these policies that the State applies? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Yovchev answered a question of mine put within the framework of parliamentary control. When the figure came together, it became clear that somewhere around 50 million. According to the media data, we are actually talking about a figure over 100 million. What's the right number, gentlemen? How are the funds spent, especially allocated by the European Commission as targeted aid? Here, I would like to make a statement to Mr. Bakalov, what are the audit conclusions of the competent authorities? And is it true to Mr. Chirpanliev that the prosecution is currently carrying out checks on how the funds were spent during this year and two months? One final statement to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister on the Strategy for Integration of Refugees adopted at the end of the previous government's term of office, is there a financial guarantee provided, is there money at stake, or did we simply adopt a document that is in no way financially secure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Petty Officer Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Tzipov, thank you for your questions. Unfortunately, I'm not prepared to answer the question of sum, sum...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u62	I'm gonna have to ask you in writing to give it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u63	Yeah, sure. Thank you for this opportunity. What I have is data on the percentage of refugees that are not originating in areas where there are conflicts, at least what I have as data from the Agency for Refugees, they are about 25%. Indeed, our policy tolerates criticism in this respect because there are special European funds for return and long-term resolution of this problem. We don't use these options actively enough there. In fact, we had a conversation recently on this subject with Mr. Chirpanliev. I hope we see more activity in this regard. What was the other question?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u64	About the money.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u65	Thank you. That's on me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. What was not heard by all MPs is that Mr. Tzipov wished for a written answer to be given the exact details of the numbers he asked for. Mr. Bakalov. [[Reply from Minister Yordan Bakalov away from the microphones.]] If that is your intention, Mr. Bakalov, I cannot forbid you to submit it to the National Assembly. It's up to you, you're the initiative.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u67	It's okay. I'll file the report. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Tzipov, I will repeat the numbers. At the Bulgarian-Turkish border for the period January 1st, 25th October 2014 a total of 4325 third-country nationals were detained, which is a 50% reduction compared to the same period of 2013. Those from Syria are predominantly 2859; Afghanistan, 860; Iraq, 153; Turkey, and Turkey, 94. Of all identified persons, 3139 were detained at the green border and 1186 of the border crossing. On the move of the Bulgarian-Greek border for the same period, 276 third-country nationals were detained, 269 on the green border and 7 at the border crossing. These are the numbers I have at this point. He has completed the audit of the State Agency for Refugees and has been submitted to the Prosecutor's Office. That's on the second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u68	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. Mr. Chirpanliev, your answer to Mr. Tzipov's questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tzipov, on the first part of your question. The organization, which fully serves the problem of returning illegal immigrants who are denied status, is called the International Organisation for Migration and they deal with the return of those persons who cannot remain in Bulgaria, with the assistance of the Migration Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. The figures that I can quote to you, but in order not to bore the audience completely, are that, to date, from the beginning of the year, the State Agency for Refugees has applied for 8013 people but have received decision 10137. As the Deputy Prime Minister mentioned, about 25% of those who wished to receive Bulgarian protection are citizens of countries that have no reason to do so. That's why they get rejections. Otherwise, in general, 80-82% are Syrian citizens, now around 14% are the citizens of Afghanistan and the third country, but with a significantly smaller number of people somewhere around 550, these are Iraqis, to date. As regards the second part of your question, what is the overall financial value of the amounts that have been allocated by the European Commission and the 20 percent that have been co-financed by our country? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u70	In total, 7 million. $100,000. EUR has been allocated in the so-called "urgent measures'. Twenty percent of them were co-financed. I have the exact breakdown, and I'll give it to you as soon as I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u71	I was talking about the funds from the state budget, Mr. Chirpanliev, not only in relation to the target aid from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u72	Yes, I have them as a breakdown, and I'll give them to you. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] Yeah, I got it, I got it, and I'll give it to you, since there's a lot of numbers. On the third part of your question, are there pre-trial proceedings initiated by the Prosecutor's Office? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u73	Please do not enter into direct dialogue with each other. It's not on the transcript. There will be only: Yes, I have numbers, I will pass them on to you, but it is not clear for what.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u74	Yeah. Thank you. I would like to stress to all of you that Bulgaria received from absolutely all control bodies from the European Commission, EASO, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, extremely high estimates of what you did in extremely short time for creating conditions and building refugee centres in Bulgaria. There is no forum to which we have not been set as an example, including to countries such as Greece, that we have literally succeeded in creating three new centres and three new registration and reception zones in two or three months. In this regard, I would like to say that: yes, the Ministry of Interior is a normal practice, this is a normal practice, an audit has been carried out, and since there are considerations regarding an activity related to an external company dealing with supervision, a question has been made to the prosecution. So there is such a procedure at the moment. Personally, I believe that these are normal practices to clarify these things. I want to answer Mr. Tsvetanov. In his inquiry he initially raised a very important and delicate question about the medical examination of the refugees who come to Bulgaria. I would specifically like to answer for the refugees we receive in our centres. Firstly, all of them, when they pass through the departments of the Ministry of Interior and, more precisely, the Department of Migration, are checked and we are guaranteed that the refugees who are being handed over to us are fully examined and are in good health. But after talks with humanitarian organisations such as the UN High Commissioner, the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, we created an organization in all our centers to appoint either doctors of Arabic origin or Arab-speaking Bulgarian medical professionals, so that all refugees under the law, at the moment they are registered with us, acquire the rights of all Bulgarian citizens and are provided medically. But, Mr. Tsvetanov, in connection with the Ebola problem you mentioned, we have proposed to the government to create mobile groups with which to be operational and be able to create such places where possible problems could arise with infection. So we believe that we will be able to provide on our part the necessary medical care in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chirpanliev. There is a question on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am among the people who share the understanding that the migration pressure, the refugee wave and refugees in Bulgaria are among the most serious tests and challenges both for the state and for the state institutions and among the most serious complexes of risks that refugees carry on the territory of the country. My question is directed at you, Mr. Ivanov, and it is related to the implementation of the National Strategy for Integration of Children who received international protection. I will immediately say that this is an interest which is caused by the fact that this strategy is a kind of action plan, as a result of which we must have a successful integration and accordingly a full use of the potential of foreign citizens who receive international status on our territory. In fact, we are talking about a complex of measures that are related to access to information, education, health care, social assistance, employment, housing. In fact, this plan was adopted at the beginning of July. Four months should already be realized. I understand from your initial answer that so far we have only the name list of the National Council for Migration and Integration and there is not enough information, at least with you, about the funds. But we still need to know what is realized under this plan, what is being undertaken, who realizes what, because in the realization of this plan there are at least four pillars of executive power, local authorities, a private sector and NGOs respectively. Of course, I'd say I'm tempted to get into a controversy with anyone who discusses matters related to the security facility. Because if five or six million were stolen from the security facility, we would now have a thorn hedge, not an obstruction of over 600 kilometers of linear length only on the cutting wire! But by the way, Minister Bakalov, you have the ball. Explain at last the question who made the estimates with you, who and under what conditions chose the projector, who and under what conditions approved this project at this value. But, of course, let's wait for the results of everything that has to do with the protective device. However, it is good to know, Mr. Ivanov, within four months apart from the name composition of what has been realized so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u77	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. For an answer there is the word Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u78	Mr. Naydenov, thank you for the question of strategy. This will allow me to answer Mr. Tzipov's question about whether she was financially provided, except accepted. But let me make an important observation first. Most likely one of the weakest areas in our policy is integration and we do have a huge problem, because the State Agency for Refugees has, in one way or another, dealt with capacity building, those people who get status, have somewhere to be accepted. I said this capacity is currently at 55%. That is, we have a reserve, resources are provided for their feeding and so on. The question is, what happens to them after they get out of... That's a huge problem. The strategy that we have found, by estimates that I have heard from different actors, precisely from those four pillars that you have listed, is a comprehensive document, you can argue on different elements of it, but it is a good enough base. Unfortunately, you said it was an action plan. But it is the broader framework within which specific action plans need to be drawn up. At the moment, colleagues from the Ministry of Social Services are working on such an action plan, we expect the Council to be convened to discuss this action plan. You do understand, however, that, given that we inherited this strategy without the necessary financial security, the question of how a drawn up action plan will come back to you in this wide range, along with the update of the budget for next year... Here I would like to call for constructiveness. If we do not provide sufficient resources for this action plan, based on the strategy we inherit from your government... Rather, I would like to say that we should work in a mode of heredity and continuity, not a search for who is wrong and who is right. Once again, we will remain naked in this segment of politics. In this sense, it is also important to say: there are meetings from the European Union for integration that can be used for this purpose. The Ministry of Interior is currently working on capacity building with them to administer and audit these funds. So within these four months, we have taken some steps. The big question, as always, is the issue of money, and this is a question rather to the National Assembly. I hope we can work on his positive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u79	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. There is a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which has already been asked by Mr. Kardzhaliev and we are now waiting for the answer on it to Mr. Chirpanliev. We're listening, Mr. Chirpanliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The State Agency for Refugees addressed the District Prosecutor's Office in Pernik and the State Agency for Protection against Discrimination that children wishing to learn from our center in Kovachevtsi were prevented by the mayor of the village of Kovachevtsi. We have confirmation from the State Agency for Protection against Discrimination that our complaint has been accepted and will be dealt with, and by the Pernik District Prosecutor's Office, and in particular their colleagues from Radomir, have sent us an inquiry on several questions that we will take and answer. So we expect the decision of these state authorities. I just want to allow myself to say something about the extremely important problem related to the integration of refugees that Mr. Hristo Ivanov is talking about. At the moment in our centers 10% of the refugees have received solutions, that is, they like all of us have ID cards The huge problem of the State Agency for Refugees is that these people we cannot force them to leave our centres. In this regard, we have put the issue at the Geneva forum, which I mentioned in my first speech, we have received Mr Antonio Guterres' support in person, that he will assist with the European committees, to receive the appropriate funds. The government has taken action in this direction and here the absent Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to stress, also very much assists us in obtaining funds, because this problem will be as if fundamental in the work of the State Agency for Refugees in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u81	Thank you. Here comes a question from the Reformation Block Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u82	Thank you, Madam President. My question is to the President of the State Agency for Refugees and it concerns the so-called accommodation of external addresses. I would like to ask him: at the moment, what is the number of refugees placed at such external addresses? The other thing that interests me is: does the Agency keep an electronic register of refugees placed at external addresses and has it given access to this register of the Ministry of Interior, which has powers to establish the residence of foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria? I mean, what I'm interested in is all these unpleasant media reports we've been watching over the past year, about places where there are 10, 20, 30 and more registered refugees at one address, which obviously means that they can't live in the same place, which means that they create a risk for both Bulgarian citizens living around them and themselves. Is this thing overcome and is it being controlled? I will conclude by saying that I am quite concerned about some of the things I have heard, in particular regarding the checks by the Prosecutor's Office of the State Agency for Refugees. From what I understand, this is about violations of public procurement. I would like to note to Mr. Chirpanliev that the prosecutor's office is not being asked. So this is obviously about serious violations. I would like to ask him to specify whether this is in connection with the recently seen signal of violations in the development of the so-called "fence fence" which was located along the border and that it was then made, if memory serves, by the chairman of the local organization of BSP in Kyustendil. If gentlemen wish, the ministers can also take part, of course, as the matter concerns their portfolios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u83	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Since you specifically put the question to Mr. Chirpanliev, I suggest we start here in reverse order. You have the floor for an answer, Mr. Chirpanliev, and then, if the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister wish to supplement, they will have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u84	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Slavov! Every day on our agency's website, we display the following data to date, regarding the question you have asked, the answer is as follows: at the moment, in general in a procedure to date, we have 5757 applicants for protection from Bulgaria. Of them in our centers are 3201, and at external addresses 2556. Under the Asylums and Refugees Act, all refugees have the right to submit declarations indicating an address where they will continue to live in Bulgaria. With my colleagues from the Ministry of Interior, we have a clear and precise agreement to inform in the respective districts or districts where refugees are said to live, the data from the declarations in question. That's our capacity, that's what we're doing. So we inform our colleagues from the Ministry of Interior, but we don't have a chance to check. For example, if they from Harmanley point out, as was the case with Muglige, there is no one to go and see if there is such an address or not. So this is actually a delicate issue that should be refined. On your second question, regarding the referral of the prosecution, I would like to stress that this is not about public procurement in this case, but only about the implementation of commitments by a specific company which carried out repairs at our centre, which was on urgent measures. She was assigned to do this, but as I stressed, the Ministry of Interior has referred to the prosecution and from now on she has to do her job, as it is quite normal practice, we are a secondary officer of the Ministry of Interior. The audit of the Ministry of Interior comes, certifications come, check and make their decisions. Regarding the third part of your question: The State Agency for Refugees is not concerned with the construction of the engineering facility along the border with Turkey. In this case, as you may all understand, it is because the Bulgarian Army has built this facility and the Ministry of Interior is planning it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u85	Thank you. Would any of the ministers like to supplement? No. [[Noise and lines from the Reformation Block.]] General Atanasov calls you, Mr. Bakalov. [[Replications between MP Atanas Atanasov and Minister Yordan Bakalov.]] I'm asking the microphones to remain a trace of this discussion between you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u86	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Slavov! Yes, the prosecution's referral is not really related to the construction of this fence. By the way, since Mr. Naydenov mentioned the construction itself, I can provide you with certain information which, first, was provided by the Ministry of Interior and then eventually went to the prosecution. Right now, this order is in the D.A.'s office. Contract No 57363 of 27 November 2013 was signed between the Directorate-General of Border and Beta Consult 1s Ltd. for the development of an investment project and the exercise of copyright control. This is the firm that carried out the investment project and exercised control. The contract amounts to 11,000. £350. In the draft corrected quantitative-value account, the necessary materials for building the facility are worth 6 million. 436 thousand. 981,77 lv. with VAT. With a letter of reg. No 6071 of 31 January 2014 was prepared by the designer adjusted quantitative-value account and provided to the Ministry of Defence for the preparation of a proposal and submission to the Ministry of Finance. By Decree No 37 of 25 February 2014 the Council of Ministers provided funding of 9 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. The construction of the facility itself began on 24 February 2014. On 25 April 2014 the presence of rust on part of the elements of the facility was found, and the rust is also noticed by elements not yet installed. This is in connection with both the commission and the border patrol. On 26 August 2014, following a review of the documentation, a statement of the basic act, Model No 15, No 30209, was signed. As a consequence, on 15 September 2014, a reception-transition protocol was signed between the Border Police Directorate General and the Land Forces. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 381 thousand. 85,48 BGN. with VAT. The facility is 29 kilometers long, 307 meters and 50 centimeters long. As a result of the referral of the Prosecutor's Office, on 6 March 2014 a signal was received sent to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. The signal was issued by MPs, who I think are still here, in the Chamber, initiated on 13 March 2014 with a monitoring prosecutor, I will save the name. So, with a decree of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office dated 13 March 2014, criminal proceedings have been initiated under the prosecutor's test No 4193 of 2014 on the description of Sofia City Prosecutor's Office in pre-trial proceedings No 139 of 2014 on the description of Sofia City Prosecutor's Office against guilty officials from the Ministry of Defence for the fact that in Sofia for a period of 2013-2014 they have not provided sufficient care for the management, management and management of the property entrusted to them and of this have followed significant damage, and the crime has been committed intentionally and is in particular size and represents a particularly difficult case. The crime is under art. 219, para. 3 and 4 of the Penal Code. In order to be shorter, on the basis of the investigation already carried out, it can be concluded to date that the indicative initial values of 5 million. $100,000. lv. the construction of the facility was given before an investment project was drawn up and before contracts were concluded with suppliers. These values have been released by the media and have given reason for the given signal by our MPs. That means the investigation is still in the D.A.'s office and development is expected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. It is time to announce a break, but since Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov has an appointment at 11:30. If there are questions from the remaining ones to him, specifically to him, I will allow them and then we will take the rest. Your question, Mr. Bayraktarov, on behalf of the Patriotic Front is to Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u88	Thank you, Madam President. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Home Secretary. In fact, what is not said today, most likely by ignorance and misunderstanding of the subject, is, yes, it is really about national security. However, in order to find out what this is about, you must have gone to a place in those so-called..... for refugees.... something that I did in May. I'm taking this opportunity to thank Mr. Chirpanliev, since we had a very long conversation on the phone. I'm sure you'll be interested in the information. Most of Africa's citizens were dominated in the sanctuary in Pestrogor. How and how they arrived in Bulgaria, no one could answer. There were over 1,000 people in the Harmanley Sanctuary. The vast majority of these 1,000 people represent a population of Kurdish origin. It is more interesting when you do a survey of men and women what they have worked, it turns out that almost all women have a profession of a freezur or a community employee something that is very interesting and men are drivers. In other words, in a more operational language, it means that these people have a pre-established legend. From then on, however, there is something more interesting, because it is clear that we have not been able to stop them. It is clear, Mrs. Tasheva, that really under the legislation these people committed a criminal offence on the Bulgarian border. However, this border, honourable Members, is also a border of the European Union, and it is a final frontier! These people, as Mr. Chirpanliev said, I am not convinced that this is the right information, at one point they get absolutely all their rights with their ID card, with their foreign passport, of every normal Bulgarian citizen. That's where the interesting thing comes from. These people, Mr. Minister of Justice, are starting to register companies that, you know, pass through and are under the control of the Ministry of Justice through these companies, however, Mr. Minister of Interior, are starting to spin some cash flows, and serious cash flows. [[Reply of Minister Yordan Bakalov.]] I know where financial intelligence is. However, I do know that the Directorate of Coordination and Information and Analysis is with you. The same directorate, if someone does not know what it means, answered me with a letter that from 1 January 2007 there was no accurate information about people crossing the Bulgarian-Turkish border. In other words, the Bulgarian-Turkish border represents a broken yard. Given the recent events, it turns out that banking supervision is not working, BNB is not working, I ask: who, how and how does it control cash flows? Who, how and in what way controls, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the registration of companies by these citizens? Who and how controls the purchase of real estate from these companies? From then on, what activity begins to develop? Because very soon we will see only one of these demonstrations today, as they were in Pazardzhik and we will see them already in Sofia. Just to give you information that there are already mass registrations of companies, mostly with activity. I hope you can give me a clear and clear answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u89	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u90	Mr. Bayraktarov, thank you for your question. You're quoting a conversation with Mr. Chirpanliev, he may want to answer more specifically about the things he told you about. What you are raising as a problem is absolutely relevant and there are indeed quite serious risks associated with the country's security with this stream. It is very easy within this stream to hide different individuals who carry risks with them. So in no way can you talk about underestimating this problem that you are raising. I think that this issue and these issues should be raised to the SANS, which ultimately have a primary responsibility for the prevention and identification of these risks. The registration process of companies is not of a nature that the Ministry of Justice can effectively guard national security risks there with the electronic register, unfortunately. Again, Bulgarian intelligence agencies have to do this. If you decide, I may ask my colleagues at the SANS any reference to all these questions you have raised. You can decide to call your colleagues here. You have to tell me. But I am absolutely here to assist in clarifying these issues. Tell me, should I mediate, or will you call your colleagues from the DANS? [[Reply of the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Okay, for the record, what Mr. Bayraktarov said is that I will request information from Mr. Pisanchev on these issues, and I will provide it to you in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u91	Thank you. Of the remaining three parliamentary groups, who are entitled to a second question, do you have any specific questions for Deputy Prime Minister Ivanov? I can't see. Mr. Bakalov, please add to Mr. Bajraktarov's question. Then I'll announce the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Bayraktarov! I think we've been talking about national security since 9:00 a.m. Since we're talking about her, now I want to develop the other thesis that is also being observed by the Ministry of Interior. We're talking about closed-ended homes, like there are right now in Harmanley. Note that there are people who have stayed for over a year as a result that it is, for example, not possible to be returned because their countries do not want to accept them. You know, procedures are pretty complicated. This can definitely lead to radicalisation of these people. Do not think that the Minister of Interior, as you said, has not been to the borders, including in these homes. It's nice when we talk about national security, let's all look in the same direction. Only by looking in one direction can we have good results. Yes, indeed Bulgaria has no way to solve the problem on its own, which appeared at our southern border. However, we must actively use our capabilities first, secondly, the European Union's capabilities, and thirdly, NATO's capabilities. So, let's look in the same direction; let the ministry monitor these processes. You may have missed it, but I said that from October 6th there is a 100 percent control by the end of this month at our border with the Republic of Turkey. I am talking about the crossings, as well as at airports for certain flights. These measures have been taken. Let us still respect the work of those who stand at the border.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u93	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. Thirty-minute break. At 11.45 we will continue with a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u94	The hearing is ongoing. The MPs of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center are entitled to a question. Is there a question from this parliamentary group? I can't see. Next up is a question from the group of "Attack." There's no way that's gonna happen. What if the ABB colleagues are ready? You don't want to or you don't have a question? You have no question. Colleagues from Ataka, I understand that you are willing to ask a second question. Perhaps the people's representative who should ask it is missing. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u95	Mr. Minister, you didn't answer my first question by explaining that you didn't know what your predecessors were saying. You may not know, but you should have an idea of their findings and of the real situation on the field along the border. So my second question is: how many of those 11,000 aliens, and according to our data more than 20 thousand aliens, have been expelled from Bulgaria so far? Thank you. And one more thing if you find the time. You said there was supposed to be a readmission agreement with Turkey, but it was conditional and we couldn't deport them back where they came from. Please explain yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. The answer is given by Minister Bakalov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u97	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, the first question can be answered more precisely by Mr. Chirpanliev how many of them have been re-advised. Otherwise, I guess we'll have to reschedule today. There is an agreement signed on 1 October which has entered into force between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey. The condition put on the part of the Republic of Turkey is that they can readmission, that is, accept refugees from countries with which they themselves have an agreement. However, this does not concern Syrian refugees. That's what I meant, and I think I was a lot clearer this time, even though I thought I said it last time. But the Bulgarian country is currently negotiating between the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey to sign an agreement between Turkey and the Republic of Bulgaria. We're working on it. After you asked me, the first question is not that I don't know, of course, that I know, after they reported to me, but you somehow understood it, you almost made me comment on a statement from a former deputy minister I've never even seen before. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u98	You will express your attitude towards the answers. We are now going to this part of the hearing procedure to express the right to address the responses of the participants in the debates have from the GERB group. Five minutes for attitude. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u99	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I regret that the Deputy Prime Minister is gone because part of the generalisations I wanted to make by the Parliamentary Group of GERB concern the overall policy. Unfortunately, today's debate has established a very clear, trendy, worrying behaviour of all institutions. The National Strategy 2011-2020 is not really implemented. No one gave a meaningful answer as to why there was no Annual Plan, which was supposed to be for 2014. We knew that Deputy Prime Minister Yovchev did not, but we see that the current office has also not made such an annual programme. It has been emphasized on the Integration Strategy, but I can say that when someone reads it, they will see that there is no integrated approach and it is not financially secure, which means that this strategy, which BSP colleagues have said, is also unrealistic to be implemented. We did not receive as a response today: why is there this gap between the automated information systems of the State Agency for Refugees with registers in all these centres? The differences are for thousands of people who actually don't know where they are. No one knows what real control is to be carried out after a person is taken out of the homes and has an address specified by him. It turned out very clearly that there is no coordination between institutions that have a direct bearing on this. In his statement Mr. Chirpanliev said that there is no way the State Agency for Refugees could check in Muglige when an address was submitted, and this was a commitment of the Ministry of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Until there is an interconnection between the State Agency for Refugees, the Migration Directorate and the Border Police Directorate, there is no way to talk about real policies. No one at the moment knows from those who manage the offices how many are the persons who have entered the territory of the country and are registered. No one knows who is exercising control or why this control is not being carried out. No one answered how the Eurodac system was consulted. The Eurodac system, when this reference is made, will see where persons are registered on entry into the European Union. I guess no one makes that kind of reference. However, what will become a problem for Bulgaria is when we break the Dublin agreement. We all know that when a person is registered in the Eurodac system and when he leaves Bulgaria and goes to the countries of the European Union, when cross-checks are carried out in the countries of the European Union, those persons immediately return to the country that has accepted them, and this is Bulgaria. No one has given a meaningful answer to the money how it is spent, and in fact about this fence, which a year and a half ago was given as a top priority because of the deterrent effect it should have had from its construction, we already hear what we alerted the then Deputy Prime Minister that the migration flow was not only from Turkey to Bulgaria. It can be as we have established in 2011, in 2012, with hidden persons in motor vehicles or illegally crossing a green border that have entered the territory of Bulgaria. And if we go back to 2011 let us be clear that since the Arab spring, Greece and Bulgaria were most affected then managed to deal with this problem, and in the reports from the end of 2012, we had very clearly written that there was a potential threat in the upcoming 2013. Of course, while this conflict in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan continues, this wave will continue to flood the European Union. Just to remind you that at the moment in Turkey, as I said at the beginning, there are over 1 million and 600,000 Syrians. Adding Iraq, adding Afghanistan, adding that Turkey is a visa-free country for African countries means that Bulgaria is indeed facing a huge threat. Only spending money does not solve the problem, but there must be an integrated approach with real policies that are unfortunately absent in the last year and a half. We are currently encountering one of those bombs that will actually hit the whole country. I have to tell you that of all the other problems discussed today in the Bulgarian society, the migration problem is the biggest problem facing Bulgaria. If we are unable to solve it with real policies, I must tell you that Sofia will become a good place for all these migrants. Unfortunately, we cannot offer programmes and integration approaches that we need to have towards these individuals. I therefore believe that today's debate has given us the opportunity to actually alert the serious problem! And after today's debate, we all need to unite the efforts of the leaders, whether opposition, whether parliamentary majority, but this problem is for the whole of Bulgaria and is not of any political power or any minister. It is a commitment of all of us who have to solve these problems. So I guess we'll have further debates where we'll get more information that will actually respond to the real problems that we have today to look for unification and not make a policy out of it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u101	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to stress that our common attitude as a parliamentary group, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, is dissatisfaction with the information presented and with the overall attitude demonstrated by the ministers of the service. And not as the content of one or another of the ministers' response, but as a whole attitude! I will agree with the previous one. This is indeed one of the most serious challenges we face. A number of European politicians are currently describing the refugee crisis as the largest so far, with no analogue in history as size and complexity. I am afraid that some of the politicians in Bulgaria, I very much hope that they are not in the National Assembly, do not realize the risks to which the refugee crisis is related in relation to Bulgaria. I am far from thinking that the ministers of the service do not see the threats, but I think they do not realize the level of risk, for Bulgaria and respectively for the Bulgarian citizens. I expected that at today's hearing a comprehensive analysis would be presented first, including an assessment of the risks on the part of the special services directly concerned with this topic. Secondly, at the very least, that a package of measures will be presented, which has been examined and validated, including financial provision, by the National Crisis Headquarters, which, although lately, held a meeting a few days ago. Look at four months or almost four months, with this pressure on the Bulgarian borders, with an increased number, including 24 hours, refugees The National Crisis Headquarters met a few days ago! Therefore, I think that we all have a responsibility here, including within the specialized committees, to subsequently put all the risks to health, social, financial, humanitarian, economic, national security risks into analysis. And I would offer my colleagues from all the parliamentary groups five directions to think in. I would very much like to hear some form of new information from the caretaker government. The first direction in terms of pressure on borders, respectively actions that can be taken further to ensure border security. It is true that the 30 km protective facility cannot solve the problem of the entire border, including attempts at its illegal passage. Secondly, the centres for accommodation of refugees supposed capacity, conditions, mode of operation, exit-entry, transit regime, procedures prior to administrative, related to the request for refugee status or humanitarian status respectively. What can be further changed in the legal framework, which will facilitate the procedures for the Bulgarian institutions, but on the other hand will give the possibility of a faster response to the expulsion of foreign citizens who are not allowed to acquire this status? Fourth, the actions under the National Integration Strategy, including Mr. Tsvetanov, in terms of financial security not only from the point of view of a budget, but also from the perspective of international treaties and the participation of European sources in the implementation of this Strategy. Because, I say, she has come, not to say as before, quarter billion leva, but let me say she is a few tens of million leva, which must be provided to be realized in full volume this National Strategy. See, only for 2014 the National Strategy envisioned the integration of no less than 2450 foreign citizens. Imagine the total cost of their integration in this volume in which it exists. And, of course, the fifth national security. The intrusion into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of persons related to radical groups, infiltration into the Bulgarian society of persons related to terrorist organizations, the danger of terrorist acts on Bulgarian territory. This topic was completely absent from the analyses or at least from the information presented to the National Assembly. And I think it's an extremely serious oversight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u102	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, you have the floor for treatment, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u103	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I would like to say our opinion very briefly. First of all, we absolutely agree with the finding that the problem is extremely important, extremely relevant, and this problem cannot be solved only and even within a single mandate. This problem will endanger Bulgaria's national security for a long time. The international situation is such that the trends for refugee flows to our country are increasing significantly. From this point of view, in order to be able to be adequate to everything that is happening around us, the most important thing we believe we need to do is to conduct an extremely sustainable policy to protect the national interests of the country in accordance, of course, with the international arrangements to which Bulgaria is a country. This, honourable Members, according to our understanding, has several aspects of the first, extremely serious and multi-directional foreign policy with regard, first, to the European Commission and to the countries of the European Union. Secondly, we need intensive communication with the Republic of Turkey in order to be able to act jointly with regard to refugee flows, because, as has already been emphasised, we are also an external border of the European Union. Dear colleagues, we also have an extreme need for a sustainable internal policy. Here we agree with what Mr. Tsvetanov said that we need an extremely serious informational connection of the systems, but here we want to add something else that we think is important. Not just informational connection. Here, the systems entrusted by the law and the Constitution to counteract and protect the national interests of the country need clear coordination and coordination. From the point of view of this task, we believe that this problem is the responsibility of all institutions and especially the special services of the country, because, honourable Members, the issue is extremely multi-faceted. From the exhibitions we have heard at the time, it has become clear that one of the main problems which actually leads to disharmony, to a threat and incorrect solution of the issues is the lack of coordination and coordination between the special services and the authorities that are authorized to solve these problems. Perhaps in the future government, people or the person who will deal with these issues should take responsibilities....................................................................................... Honourable Members, for us the matter must find a solution in the following directions from the institutions: First of all, provide only and only regulated entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. How this is going to happen is a matter of expertise, a question of expertise, in which we should not be confused. This is a matter that needs to be resolved, I say again, by experts, but we must make sure that they are responsible only for regulated entry into the territory of the country. This immediately raises the issue of control in the regulated entry. The necessary tools and mechanisms must be found immediately to become clear who has refugee status and can acquire one who enters with other intentions on the territory of the country. This issue is complex and extremely important. In addition, honourable Members, we must take care of this once these people are accommodated. This is also already the Agency's care, how to be cared for on the ground so that human rights can be respected. This is what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms monitors with particular attention. Next, since this is not about a one-off act and a one-off action, we need to have a clear programme on how people who decide to stay here on the territory of the country will find realization further. However, a particular concern of the relevant authorities and services should be the attention of the authorities and services as to whether, under the pretext of a refugee, other factors directly endangering our national security are being introduced into the territory of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, we are obliged to adopt the Law on Asylums and Refugees. If we have to synchronize legislation in other directions, but give a clear and precise horizon to our services and bodies authorized to solve these problems. Let me, on behalf of the parliamentary group, thank you for the detailed presentations of the Minister of the Interior, the Head of the State Agency for Refugees, I believe that we have received detailed and accurate information and, of course, those who have asked this question, because it is extremely relevant and important. I hope, and this is the understanding of our parliamentary group that on this issue, as has been heard by the exhibitions of colleagues from other groups, we will have a clear political consensus because without it, honourable Members, nothing can be resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u104	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Now he has the floor for an attitude representative of the Reformation Block Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the problem is complex. Today, however, I see this as a beginning of his discussion because there are a number of other services and institutions in the country that have responsibilities regarding refugees, the refugee flow and so on. From the information provided by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior and the Chairman of the State Agency, this is good as information, but I am impressed that the people who until two months ago were in power now want to receive information from the caretaker government, which will solve all these problems that we inherited in two months. Isn't that right?! I would like to point out here the institutions that are relevant, responsible and, in future, Parliament, in the order of parliamentary control, must demand and expect adequate behaviour from these institutions. First of all, the Foreign Ministry must strengthen its diplomatic channels in order to be able to seek a solution between Bulgaria and Turkey on this issue, as the Turkish state has sufficient resources to hinder this process. Secondly, I would like to point out a major problem, which has stood for years, there is no legislative regulation of coordination between the Bulgarian special services. There are several extremely important institutions, such as the National Intelligence Service, Military Intelligence, which have no legal regulation, not to mention coordination between them. It is absolutely imperative to adopt a Law on Coordination between the Services. The Security Council of the Council of Ministers must be institutionalised to be the body implementing this coordination. From my distant observations, of course, through publicity, I think that specifically the State Agency for National Security has very large obligations. On this issue, I haven't heard what they've done so far. Perhaps it is necessary, now I do not know whether we should do it in plenary, when the committees of Parliament are structured, one of the first problems on which the President of the State Agency "National Security" should be heard should be the work of the Bulgarian counter-intelligence in relation to the migration process, because the risks you are talking about here about implanting in the refugee wave of people who have other intentions is precisely the responsibility of the State Agency. I would like to say something here to Mr. Interior Minister, Mr. Minister, a very difficult corruption environment was created along the sewers. No one is working, or at least we don't have public data to counter this problem. I want to tell you that if you request from your subordinates a reference to the established channellers, how many of them are secret assistants of the services, you will be afraid of the information you will receive, so the problem begins from within. It's very important that you know that. Coordination is needed in order to effectively counter this problem, which will not be over soon, because we are all aware that in the Middle East conflicts are escalating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. On behalf of the group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The attitude I want to take today is that first, we must be honest, objective and correct. The current caretaker government is the fourth government within a year and a half. It is clear to you all that this government had one major commitment and it was the organisation and conduct of fair parliamentary elections. Another question is how he dealt with this commitment. Personally, I am satisfied with what Interior Minister Mr. Bakalov said. I am satisfied from this point of view because for a very short period of time it is evident that this ministry is working on this problem. Moreover, countermeasures are outlined because the construction of such a border facility is really necessary. It does not only stop the influx of illegal immigrants or illegally crossing the border, but also has a much more serious economic effect in terms of protecting from a number of animal diseases, in terms of stopping smuggling, drug trafficking and so on. If someone is interested in how much these facilities are worth, they can enter the website of the Public Procurement Agency calmly, see when these public procurements are organised and make an account of the cost of a linear meter. I expect really from Minister Yordan Bakalov serious action and I am convinced that he will. As far as the other side of the matter is concerned, and especially from the point of view of the information that the Deputy Prime Minister was supposed to give us, I am extremely dissatisfied. First of all, because you cannot stand before the National Assembly and say that you are not prepared for the amount of public funds spent, those funds that pay all of us who pay the Bulgarian people. Moreover, this raises concern about the planning of the next budget on the information that the National Assembly should take regarding the update of the current budget. This really isn't serious behavior from a deputy prime minister. In addition, you have witnessed an exceptional disorganization which has been demonstrated in the speeches of the Deputy Prime Minister regarding state institutions. This shows that Bulgaria has become a decomposed yard, on an internal basis. We need to be clearly and accurately aware, honourable Members, when we talk about these things. I would remind Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov that this problem, which he raises to Mr. Bakalov, is not from yesterday and that day, but concerning several governments. I do not wish, Mr. Tsvetanov, to fall into the situation of 18 July 2012, because to date Bulgaria is in no way prepared against terrorist acts. No way! That's what all competent people know. We must clearly realise that Burgas Airport and many of the strategic sites are at risk of terrorist attacks, and they are literally at our border. Not to say I'm pretty sure there are nuts built on terrorist groups. They gave Al-Qaeda, they gave them to other Islamists, it's a matter of the relevant services. I absolutely agree with you, Minister, that up to now we have not heard what activity is being carried out by the so-called.... intelligence................................................................................ This lack of information is on the threshold to bring down the Bulgarian banking system. We can't have financial intelligence doing nothing and we don't have information on how cash flows move, in what directions, in what direction. I will tell you that today we are facing a very serious problem in Bulgaria there are registered over 50 000 Russian companies with billions of turnover and funny taxes that are being paid. What is the coordination between the National Revenue Agency and all others in the direction of other state institutions? Tomorrow we will have to collect money and solve problems for the Bulgarian people and at the same time close our eyes and use buying words. I think the Bulgarian language is rich enough to speak in Bulgarian words understandable to the Bulgarian people. Here, these problems had to be clearly and categorically put on them to seek answers and solutions. Otherwise, we'll keep talking small talk, decisions to stay away, problems to stay away and no one to put them the way they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. The group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is now in order. Colleagues, would you care to comment on the questions? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm moving on to the next number group of the Attack Party. Mrs. Tasheva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u109	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, I asked you two questions and you didn't answer either. The topic is the invading immigrants or aliens from the Middle East. My questions were: how many millions of euros, dollars, or foreign currency, perhaps Turkish liras were confiscated by these criminals who committed a double crime? First, they cross the border, bypassing checkpoints; and second, they smuggle currency. According to the Penal Code, the object of the smuggling is confiscated. Since you cannot answer, we are fully within our right to conclude that this dirty money from one of the most serious crimes recognised by international law Therefore, millions of smuggled amounts are flowing in Bulgaria, which are going to corrupt the state administration. My other question was: how many of these aliens were expelled? And you didn't answer that question. I find today's sitting for the so-called refugees is symptomatic. You're just as unprepared as your predecessor was. Just a year ago, November of this tribune, I asked him for his resignation and asked him: "Who do you share the dirty money from the refugees? " Now I'm going to explain to you why you can't answer me and why refugees are a gesture. They're because there's funding that can be freely abused from two directions. First the dirty money they bring; and second, the money for the so-called integration. It is strange that when you talk about integration, everything else comes to mind, ladies and gentlemen, only not that you have not asked the Bulgarian people if they agree to integrate them. I will tell you: they will never be integrated because we do not want them! Mr. Iankov of the DPS, you ask how these people would find their realization. They won't find her. Bulgarian citizenship is granted, status is granted, but citizenship is revoked and status is revoked. They will be expelled, as most of them are criminals, and those who are not criminals are simply illiterate and will be returned to the countries from which they came. We will conduct the policy that was formulated by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban at the celebrations of September 1, the anniversary of World War I. He said so: In Hungary, neither will the so-called refugees be accepted! Hungary will remain a Christian country, and those who want to come or are already on their feet will be returned to the countries in which God has decided to be born! It is the only policy that can somewhat compensate for the damage to national security that your governments have already done. As for whether the thirty-mile facility is worth seven million. lv. or cheaper, we get the impression that you liberal gentlemen on the right side are very concerned, aren't you?! I want to ask what happened, Mr. Tsvetanov, with that 200,000. BGN, which you gave back in 2012 to your district manager in Haskovo Irina Uzunova and they disappeared? Where did the money go? Have you ever seen an American movie with Cuba Gooding? Show me the money? Show me the money? Where is the money that you had already set aside in 2012 to provide comfort to this private Muslim army, which does not come from the fields of death around Homs, Hama or Aleppo, it comes from the camps in Turkey where they are trained to kill a peaceful population. Look at them on YouTube, look at them on all social sharing networks. They themselves have their own TV stations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u110	Please stick to the rules, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u111	Just half a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u112	Half is too much, one sentence to end.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u113	I just want to inform the people that there are already private refugee camps in Bulgaria. One of these was organized by Alidin Harfan, who, by chance or not, was sponsored by the blue part of the people's representation. He supports your campaigns, for example, that of Nayden Zelenogorski. And you'll be talking about national security. There isn't one!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. There are names of Members of the National Assembly here. Mr. Tsvetanov wants a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u115	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, about the 200,000 you spoke of, I believe this was a topic that we debated in the previous National Assembly. You know that these funds have been provided so that the site can be prepared. This is the site from which the previous management of the Ministry of Interior took advantage. You know, a lot of refugees settled there. What you mean about the former district governor of Haskovo, I think we should have at least minimal respect for the MPs from the previous National Assembly. I can tell you that because of the stroke that Mrs. Uzunova suffered, there are still recovery procedures, let us wish she could recover and actually be able to work. The accusation you're making to her, I think it's baseless and I'm giving it more to your emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u116	For a personal explanation, Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u117	Dear colleagues, I want to make it clear that what Mrs Tasheva said is an absolute lie! However, if it turns out that one of our sympathizers in Pleven has received a donner as a gift and you consider it some kind of campaign financing, there may be a bit of truth. Please watch your mouth, because only Joseph Cobzon got a fee, as far as I know, 80 grand. lv.! Serious money!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u118	There is now an opportunity for attitude from the ABB group. [[National Representative Magdalena Tasheva wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] There is no personal explanation for a personal explanation, Mrs. Tasheva. There's no discussion we can get into.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Frankly, I expected much more from the exhibitions of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister on the refugee issue. Last but not least, in one of the first places, I would like to say that from all the exhibitions so far it has not become clear that we have national security in which we have this type of issue and coordination between different offices, offices and agencies. I was very impressed with their presentations that there was an exposure to conflicting data in several places and at the same time an exposure to conflicting opinions on the subject. This, for me, answers once again the question that we really do not have coordination with each other and that we are trying to solve the problems in this case, in this fundamental problem, we are trying to solve them in hell. In my opinion, there is no analyticity, no systemicity, and all of this, I regret repeating myself and repeating myself, leading to the conclusion that we do not have national security on this type of problem. I also expected a better expert opinion to be presented. The minister mentioned that a variety of measures can be taken to solve the problem as a whole. I expected not to hear the possible measures, I personally expected to hear which of the proposed measures was most effective, which of the proposed measures could lead to much better results and at the same time be combined with spending less money. Why am I talking about money right now? Because both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister mentioned the need to update the budget on the issue of refugees. I couldn't hear the size of it. If a budget increase is voted on, how effective will that lead to? You know, at the moment, the budget and its update is a very delicate issue that opens up a few sub-questions. The first budget deficit, i.e. the accumulated negative budget balance in what percentage will be approved by the National Assembly? Is the external debt increasing or not? If so, what does that lead to, what does it reflect on? In the first place on the macroeconomic environment in Bulgaria, in the second place on social policy, in third place on National Security, fourth, not least, this will lead to a direct outflow of foreign direct investment. That is precisely why I expected that today a very clear and adequate argument would be made about what update should be made in terms of the budget on the issue that we have been commenting on all day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u120	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. And thank the Minister for the hearing. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u121	Madam President, I ask you very much to respect the exchange of arguments, and they also attack. In the last parliament, we had the right to defend ourselves when someone accused us unjustly. Mr. Zelenogorski, you have photos of Alidin Harfan during your second campaign...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u122	Mrs. Tasheva, I will not allow you to give a personal explanation to replicate yourself in a way that is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure! We move on to the hearing of the Minister of the Environment and Waters Mrs. Svetlana Zhekova on Decision No 28-OS2/2014 on the assessment of the possible degree of significant negative impact of a comprehensive and annual work project for 2014 for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block The caretaker minister is here. The issue will be developed by Mrs. Kalina Balabanov. Here you are, Mrs. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Minister! On 26 August 2014, the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and you, as appointed Minister of Service, issued Decision No 28-8/2014 to assess the likely degree of significant negative impact of a comprehensive five-year and annual work project for 2014 for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block. I remind you that as appointed Minister of Environment and Water your functions are defined in Decision No 20 of 23 December 1992 for interpretation of art. 99 of the Constitution, namely: Your functions are reduced to ensuring the conditions for producing fair, democratic and free elections. A task with which I think most of my colleagues will agree that it is not very successful. Your additional powers are limited to ensuring a certain continuity in the course of the public life. If we ignore the fact that you did not do well with the preparation and running of the elections, I do not see how you would have caused an interruption in state life if you had failed to sign the decision in question. In it, you issue permission to the company "Park Place Energy Corp" to search and explore oil and gas for the period 2014-2019. It's five years, ladies and gentlemen, on the territory of Block Vranino. This certainly exceeds your authority. In this regard, I ask you to answer the first question, which is extremely important, i.e.: what exactly are the reasons for adding functions and issuing such a disastrous solution for Dobrudzha and for the whole of Bulgaria? Whose interests exactly are you defending through this decision because it is more than obvious that you do not defend the Bulgarian interests. Maybe the Americans?! I'll explain why now. I would like to inform you because perhaps you didn't meet before issuing this decision that the company in question, Park Place Energy Corp, is registered in the state of Nevada, U.S.A. Her representatives are Mohammed Yiaz Khan, David Michael Thompson, Scott Charles Larson, Arthur Avlynn Douglas Halleren. It deals with demand, exploration and extraction of coal, liquid coal fuels, by-products from coal and coal gases, coal trade, liquid coal fuels, by-products from coal and coal gases. This is evident from the company's file dealing with the extraction of coal gas. The company itself, Park Place Energy Corp, provides interviews with regional informational good agencies. Admits that it will use old drillings that are 1,300-1500 m. At such depth, especially in the case of old drillings, there is only a possibility for coal gas production, but not natural gas, for which the permit in question has been granted; I'm informing you that the firm in question is not telling you what technology it's going to use when looking for gas. In addition, Park Place President Energy Corp himself admits to the media that he wants to produce coal gas in Dobrudja territory. If you wish, I'll give you the gentleman's very interview later. [[Calls the Minister of Environment and Water.]] For the environment and for water and for ecology as a whole, it does not matter whether coal gas will be sought or extracted. The technology is exactly the same. Two methods can be used to inform Members of the National Assembly. The first is fracking, the second is ignition. Both are equally harmful to the environment. Fracking or hydraulic breaking is a method in which it is sprayed under enormous pressure, notice, up to 1000 atmospheres through probes millions of liters of water, but not just water, but water mixed with over 600 types of toxic chemicals, most of which have proven carcinogenic action. You can judge the extent to which it would harm the environment. When igniting the other possible method, there is a huge risk of contamination of underground water sources, especially with benzene and phenol. Many countries, since you are all falling into great love for the European Union here, most of these countries are members of the European Union, including France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Austria, Germany, already prohibit and deny these methods, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, the area that will cover this project is nearly 400 km from Golden Dobrudja. The block of Vranino is located in the municipalities of General Toshevo, Kavarna, Balchik and Shabla. There are also protected areas in this area, including the lake "Duranculak" (Krymorska Dobrudja), "Kaliak" and "Bilo" (Bilo). Here comes my second point and my second question: exactly how do you come to the conclusion that the project of the Park Plays Energy Corp................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Since the whole of Bulgaria is known that the ministry, not only the environment and water, but any ministry, the whole country has no technology, no institution, no staff, no experts to control one such company what kind of gas it is looking for. She's just taking a turf, doing her drilling and looking for what she's looking for. None of you or any institution's representatives check what you're looking for there. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u124	You have the opportunity in the form of both questions to further develop your sub-questions, but complete your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u125	My second question is: with what conscience do you issue permission to this company for the search for natural gas, provided that both you and everyone else and the whole country are clearly not looking for natural gas? I'm gonna have to ask you to answer these questions seriously. I remind you that we have gathered thousands of signatures against your decision and thousands of people throughout Bulgaria, not only in Dobrich and the whole of Dobrudzha, all over Bulgaria have gathered to protest this decision. I therefore ask you for responsibility and seriousness in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u126	Thank you. For an answer, the minister of the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Balabanova, The decision to assess the probable extent of a significant negative impact of a comprehensive and annual work project for 2014 for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block Therefore, I thank you for the opportunity for this hearing, which will allow me to bring to you, the honourable Members of the National Assembly clarity and once again to assure that the MoEW will not allow illegal methods of oil and natural gas extraction. It is the Decision of 26 August in question with the mandatory conditions laid down therein that ensures the implementation of the research actions in accordance with environmental legislation. This decision is not an authorisation within the meaning of the Underground Treasures Act, as you claim. It shall agree on a working plan for the search and exploration of natural gas, not coal gas. In accordance with the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, all exploration drillings for oil and gas in Bulgaria have been subject to the EIA procedure in Bulgaria, something with which our country has gone further than the provisions of the relevant European EIA Directive and is one of the few countries that introduces mandatory EIA or EIA assessment in terms of the extraction of natural oil and gas. In this regard, after drawing up a work project for the intended drilling, the contracting authority should notify the competent authority of the need to carry out an EIA procedure for drilling activities. The same is subject to mandatory conditions for the decision in question of the Minister of Environment and Water of 26 August. According to these conditions, any subsequent action related to drilling activities should go through the relevant environmental impact assessment procedures. Every next move! The area covered by the block of Vranino 1-11 is located on the territory of Dobrich district, Northeastern Bulgaria. The coal layers found in the Dobrudzha coal basin were extensively explored from 1960 to 1990 with more than 220 drillings within the pool to determine the possibility of extraction of coal found there. During these exploration periods, the possibilities for industrial extraction of natural gas from coal layers were not explored. Not coal gas, but natural gas from coal layers. It's methane gas, there's a difference. It is these activities that are the subject of the 5-year work plan of the contractor company. The overall and annual work project was drawn up on the basis of a contract of 1 April 2014 for the search and exploration of oil and natural gas block Here it is important to recall that by Decision of the Forty-first National Assembly of 2012, a ban on the implementation of hydraulic fracturing technology was introduced in the exploration or extraction of gas and oil throughout the Republic of Bulgaria. It shall be prohibited, respectively, to issue licences, to conclude concession contracts and other contracts and to carry out any legal and factual action in breach of that decision by the National Assembly. It follows the regular conclusion that the contract signed on 1 April this year with the Park Place Energy is fully consistent with these prohibitions, and the duties and powers of the Minister of Environment and Water are to set the limits for the environmental implementation of this contract. That is the purpose and purpose of the decision under discussion today. On the specific issues put by Mrs. Balabanov, let me first concentrate on the latter, because for me it is very important about how we came to the conclusion that the project of the Park Place Energy is not going to have a significant negative impact on the environment, you say. With the answer, I would like to bring in a few key points of importance in order to avoid any speculation. I would start by saying that at this early stage of planning the activities are not implemented activities which are subject to an environmental impact assessment or environmental assessment procedure under the Environmental Protection Act. Therefore, the procedure for issuing the decision in question, which reconciles a comprehensive and annual work project for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the block of Accordingly, the subject of assessment in the decision given.. I think it is important to specify it for the Members of the National Assembly. The subject matter concerns only the compatibility of the proposed activities in the work plan with the objectives of protecting the Natura 2000 sites and does not constitute an overall environmental impact assessment. The Ministry of Environment and Water, as a competent authority, has carried out an assessment of whether the overall working project for the search and exploration of oil and natural gas Vranino is likely to have a negative impact on the protected areas of the network, Yes, you correctly quoted some of the area as falling into protected areas, Lake Durankulak and Lake Dobrudja for conservation of natural habitats and areas. The area does not fall within protected areas within the meaning of the Law on Protected Areas and the assessment made at this stage and established by the Decision concerns only those impacts, not an overall environmental impact. The Ministry of Environment and Water considered that the overall project is unlikely to have a significant negative impact on the subject matter and objectives of conservation of affected protected areas only under the conditions laid down by the decision concerning drilling activities. These conditions are mandatory for implementation by both the project contracting authority and the competent approval authority of the project..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I draw attention to the fact that the decision coordinates work projects for search and research and not for the extraction of such projects, as you say in your inquiry. Allow me here to answer, however, the first two questions of Mrs. Balabanova about exceeding her powers as minister of the ministry and placing her signature under the doom of Zlatna Dobrudzha. The powers and responsibilities I have as Minister of Environment and Water are to take all legal measures to ensure the implementation of research activities in accordance with environmental legislation, as well as to ensure and protect civil and national interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u128	Dear Minister, focus on closing, as the 10 minutes scheduled for the exhibition are over. Maybe later you'll have a chance to answer. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u129	I'm on my way, thank you. [[Replys from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u130	Let him finish his thought, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u131	I believe that the Ministry of Environment and Water protected the interest of Bulgarian citizens through the mandatory conditions in the decision and further refined it with an explicit reference to the existing moratorium. In addition to those conditions, the decision lays down conditions for mandatory compliance with the regime of eligible activities laid down by the relevant orders for the designation of protected areas. So, dear Mrs. Balabanov, neither the Ministry of Environment and Water, nor I, as minister of the service, would we reach for the well-being of our common Golden Dobrudja, let alone sign under its doom. On the contrary, I am convinced... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last sentence... I am convinced that the search and study of its own deposits of conventional fuels in Bulgaria are possible to ensure energy independence of the region and our country. The need for this is becoming increasingly tangible, especially in the context of the gas crisis we are going through. I believe that environmental legislation is an instrument to ensure sustainable development, not to limit or stop it with unconditional bans under the pretext of concern.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u132	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come on in, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u133	Mr. Chairman, I insist that when ministers come here who are servants of the people and report to the National Assembly, you make a remark to them when they behave arrogantly and insolently! Because, Jekova, in addition to lying, you behave arrogantly and disrespect the National Assembly! We are MPs here who represent our constituents, and you are obliged to explain to them why you have given this permission and why you have given to pierce the golden Dobrudja land [[Laughter in P.F.]] Not telling us lies and acting like Ilse Koch, like a prison guard in a woman's prison! [[Applause by "Attacka"]] You have no right to do that and take a note, Mr. Chairman! I demand that when ministers come here, you behave properly, defend dignity and tell them that they are here to report to the people, not to develop these and not to behave arrogantly and to fight, because you were being arrogant at the moment! You accuse our MP who gives you facts and these facts are known by thousands of Bulgarian citizens. And it is not in vain that Bulgarian citizens rise up in protests. They will rise in the future of protests, and people like you...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u134	Mr. Siderov...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u135	...then you'll go to jail. [[Applause by "Attacka"]] Because you didn't just let them pierce the golden Dobrudja land...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u136	Mr. Siderov...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u137	...you sold Bulgaria! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u138	I'll take that note. Dear colleagues, we are in the hypothesis of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of the Rules on which we are working, each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions. By the order created and established by us I invite the largest of them the Parliamentary Group of GERB for additional or supplementary issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u139	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we have learned from your presentation that the procedures carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Water have reached a certain stage. We understand that the Ministry of Environment and Water and you, as a minister, guarantee that you will not allow any violation of the Bulgarian legislation. You will not allow a breach of the explicit ban imposed by the moratorium introduced in 2012 and the additional conditions adopted by the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act again in 2012, which require the passage of an EIA procedure not only in the phase of the EIA and for all research activities where they are related to drilling. Also, the Ministry of Economy and Energy as a competent authority is the one who actually issued the search and survey authorisation, signed the search and research contract, something that happened on 1 April 2014. We understand that the authorisation issued by you concerns a procedure relating to the compatibility assessment regulation, to the objectives and subject matter of protection of protected areas, and not to an EIA procedure, because it seems to me that there is some form of misunderstanding here. What I would like you to clarify is: what stage is the procedure currently in place; are any actions and activities being carried out by the company that has received the search and survey permission? Also clarify the follow-up procedures that will ensure that the environment is fully protected and not adversely affected and that there is no risk of damage to the territory, as well as risks to the health and life of the population. To what extent do the competent authorities, namely the Ministry of Economy and Energy, as well as the Ministry of Environment and Waters responsible for controlling the processes, interact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. For an answer, Minister Zhekova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u141	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Vasileva. I'd be happy to make these additional details. Where's the procedure? Firstly, I would like to clarify what the current situation is with the solution in question. Judgment No 28-OS/2014 was appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court. At present, the Ministry of Justice has no record of the scheduled hearing of the appeals against the decision and, respectively, according to art. 166, para. 1 of the APC, the contested decision suspended its execution until final judgment by the court, i.e. the decision is not in force at the moment. It is a necessary condition for the Minister of Economy and Energy, as a competent authority for granting authorisations, to decide on the authorisation of the activities in the work plan. Where such authorisation is given by the competent authority, the work plan shall be carried out accordingly and the annual work plan shall be further approved each year. This is in relation to the procedure and to where we are with it. The decision has not entered into force, i.e. the authorisation has not been initiated, this is to come. Where there is an authorisation and the activities of the plan begin to be carried out, each activity shall be subject to the environmental impact assessment procedure The work plan provides for many activities that are for data processing and for the collection of additional data. They are therefore not subject to an environmental impact assessment, but any drilling activity, whether in old drilling or new ones that are provided for in the work plan, are subject to an environmental impact assessment. The control that is being carried out is a joint by the Ministry of Economy and Energy and the Ministry of Environment and Water. Accordingly, the Ministry of Economy and Energy shall verify whether the manner stated by the contractor to carry out the activities, technologies which have been declared accordingly has been fulfilled. All this is to come, not yet requested technologies, no search and study, respectively MOEW controls activities [[the President signals that time has run out]] which are laid down in the Minister of the Environment's decision and must be part of the authorisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u142	Thank you, Minister Zhekova, the time for answering this question is up. He is now a representative from the group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u143	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! I am opening the act in question that you have signed, Madam Minister, and I am asking you the first question to which I ask you to answer me with a................. or not............................................................. Did you order a report to be prepared on the compatibility of this investment proposal with the Bulgarian legislation? If I do, I ask you to present it to us because in the reasons why you should take a decision, you do not refer to the conclusion of such a document. You have decided to reconcile the investment plan for the entire period and for the annual work programme for 2014, based on a number of texts of Bulgarian laws, but I note, you have been provided with written documentation by the contracting authority. I ask you the following question: has the contracting entity informed you of the technology with which the research and extraction will be conducted? If you did not mention it in the general information about the proposed project. If your answer is not, please answer me: on what basis have you assessed and decided that there is no likely high degree of significant negative impact? Yes or no? If you don't tell me one thing, if you don't tell me the other. And how come you're authorizing designing and passing at least 10,000? I'm new drilling at such an early stage without what you say you're hoping will happen mandatory? I quote to you a statement by Mr. Scott Larson. [[the President signals that time has run out]] President of the firm in question. He's talking about three stages, the third is a pilot test. The pilot test is field and the extraction method must be experimented, so please answer me precisely and unambiguously to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u144	How many questions, Mr. Bojinov? You have one question to ask, and you asked me, I counted at least three so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u145	If you think I've made it difficult for the Minister, I'd like to be excused.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u146	No, I don't think so, but let's stick to the procedure. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines by BSP LB: This is a sub-question question.]] For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u147	Thank you for the question, Mr. Bojinov. The answer, the answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u148	Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u149	Which is the first question or the second question?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u150	The first one, the first one.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u151	The answer to the question is: both to and not to. [[Laughter and excitement in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u152	This is much more female, answer more seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u153	Yes, documentation from the contracting authority relating to the compatibility assessment has been requested. [[Replications of the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u154	Mr. Iankov, please don't engage the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u155	This documentation shall be submitted to the Ministry for Assessment and Assessment only in respect of the impact on the protected areas concerned. The probes that you're quoting are in the work plan, actually somewhere far in time, because at this stage there is no specified technology or places where drilling will be conducted. [[Relations of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Yeah, that's subject to a different assessment. At this stage, there is no such information indicated and the assessment is on the overall working plan in principle. I say again, the assessment, the assessment, not the permission yet, to give permission to each individual activity, including the wells in old or new 10,000 meters, if it comes to that, because it is a matter of processing data that is subject to the work plan in the first year, are subject to an environmental impact assessment, including the pilot drilling that you mention, and it is subject to an assessment of the environmental impact. This is yet to be decided before permission is granted. Again, this is not an authorisation. It shall be issued on the basis of future environmental impact assessments of each activity, including the pilot project. The pilot project is not intended for the first year. Each work plan for each subsequent year shall be subject to a separate authorisation and shall be subject to a separate environmental impact assessment. That's what's at stake here. If you read a little further down, you see the terms of the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u156	Thank you, Minister Jekova. A question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u157	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The question that I would like to address to you, Minister Zhekova, is rather related to the disclosure of the decision you have signed to assess the likely degree of significant negative impact on the protected areas of the overall and annual work project for 2014 for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block. My impression is that the high public tension arising in connection with this decision is due to insufficient information submitted publicly by the MoEW. I am referring, not to the general information, but to detailed explanations of both the project itself, I am referring to the nature of the project, the search method and the research method underlying it, as well as precisely what is permitted by the decision that you have signed. It seems to me that there is a lack of information and directly from the Nature Protection Directorate about exactly what potential impact there would have been and eventually there would not be in the relevant protected area after approving this work project. It is obvious that since the decision already has violent protests in the public domain, the subject is sensitive, we know, then are complemented by your decisions of 8 September, with very serious restrictions and already, after these additional components are included in the nature conservation, it is achieved and it is seen that in this case it is about conventional approaches, unconventional ones are excluded. At first glance, it should be borne in mind that the subject is extremely sensitive, that there could be an association with coal burning and hydraulic fracking. Seen by the timeline of the decisions and the whole background that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one or two sentences, please. It is apparent that only conventional approach and conventional yield are permitted. That's what we all need to know, the whole public, and that way we really have one control. Perhaps for this purpose it is necessary to conduct the necessary discussions and debates with sufficient awareness, at least at a time when the decision has been issued, the public should be informed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question also complements the previous one I asked at the outset: are serious information campaigns to be conducted in the following stages and to inform the whole public and all of us in view of the extremely great concern of the whole public? I will set an example both with genetically modified organisms and with a law that you examined at the Forty-First National Waste Assembly. Discussions and debates must precede decisions and have a maximum level of awareness of the entire public and of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Yes, I agree that the subject of the decision in question has probably not been widely publicised enough since it continues to be mistaken for a reply. It must definitely be considered in this direction, and I hope that the next permanent government will be considered sustainable. We may not have had that much time to react to such longer-term projects. Specifically, the question of whether a wider public discussion and campaigns will be organised is definitely my answer: yes, and together with the Ministry of Economy and Energy, with which we have extremely good cooperative relations in this regard. A search and survey authorisation is to be issued and approved for the work plan which has not been definitively approved, as I said. Prior to this approval and prior authorisation, specifically for search and study, a broad campaign will be conducted, public discussion so that the votes can be heard not only of those who protest against fracking, we are all opposed to this unconventional technology, so there is a moratorium in Bulgaria, but also of those who would like to develop activities in the region, according to the environment and health of the population, of course, but activities for exploration and exploration of oil and natural gas with conventional methods. Because, as I said in my statement, this is, in my opinion, a development which the region and Bulgaria as such should not be refused through environmental legislation. It is to protect the environment and health of the population, not to prohibit normal conventional development methods, in the case of exploration and exploration of oil and natural gas.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u160	Thank you, Minister Jekova. Colleagues from the Reformation Block are on the move. Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u161	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Mr Minister! Undoubtedly, this is a strategic issue for our country, both for new energy sources and for doing so without risk to the environment and especially for water. I would like to say that what my colleague Chakarov advocated was also part of my question. The fact is, here in plenary, there are questions that, quite naturally, require some clarification. For example, the difference between the decision-making process and the decision-making process is already clearer. There is a difference between natural gas and coal gas. Natural gas is formed due to the activity of micro-organisms, there cannot be expected the presence of benzene or hydroxy derivatives of benzene which are potentially carcinogenic or otherwise. In coal gas, when oxidation occurs at high temperatures, condensed cores can be obtained, including those mentioned by colleague Balabanova. The question here is more about water. I am still Vice-President of the Bulgarian Water Association, and if this is not any incompatibility, I will probably remain so, as this is a socially useful organization. That's where we're interested in these questions. We believe that at present the only more serious risk is related to deep drilling, for which, naturally, there are technologies available and, in the case of isolation in the lower part of the valance, the necessary to reach the carbon, without any problems for groundwater in the valance. However, it should be borne in mind that the waning water horizon in this part of Bulgaria is perhaps the largest and strategic source of relatively poorly mineralized water. I hope further, when appropriate authorisations are issued, that there will be a deeper analysis, including the hydrogeological incision. We know that there are also some faults that workgrounds should be outside them, to monitor the level of groundwater and many other things that I hope will come true. Finally, as a small banter: how does Minister Zhekova think that other than lack of awareness, there are fears that Dobrudja will be burned, when there will be no burning underground, although 1200-1500 meters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u162	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u163	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. I want to assure you first of all that, yes, that is exactly what we intend to do to the Ministry of Environment and Water. In each subsequent drilling activity, it is necessary to carry out an in-depth assessment and assessment of the environmental impact of all activities in their aggregate, i.e. in respect of the entire territory of block 1.11. From this point of view, I believe that this will be done. As for where the understanding that we are going to ignite Zlatna Dobrudja comes from, I think it comes first of all from a lack of awareness or more precise misinformation. [[Strong noise, banging on the bank, banging with legs and loud cries by the MP Volen Siderov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u164	No more speculation!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u165	Including...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u166	Mr. Siderov, please, please, let's stick to the order in this room! [[Extending noise, banging with hands and feet by the National Representative Volen Siderov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u167	It's disinformation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u168	...and we're definitely going to make sure that this information is more channeled. [[Extreme noise, banging on the bank and clapping with hands by the MPs Volen Siderov and Kalina Balabanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u169	Please, Mr. Siderov! Mrs. Zhekova has 30 seconds left to complete her question. [[Relations from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u170	Actually, I almost finished the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u171	If you have completed it, I will thank you and give the next question a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u172	I just need to respond to the reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u173	You are not allowed to respond to the reactions, but to the question asked by the Reformation Block. Do not enter personal dialogues in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u174	Okay, okay. Thank you. I will only add that there are probably also corporate interests involved here, because I will only mention that in the competition that was held before the conclusion of the contract, before the decision of the Council of Ministers of 2010, two companies have filed documents. The decision to elect a contractor has been appealed for a long time. I don't know, the conclusions are on us. The court has decided that the choice of contractor was correct. I don't know where the disinformations come from about Zlatna Dobrudja. [[Noise and lines from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] It won't be lit.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u175	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Now they have the opportunity to question the MPs of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you on the very competent and clear answer. [[(Applause from the Patriotic Front, shouts: "Bravo! ") and applause from the Ataka.)]] I just want to say that I think that only your good upbringing has given you no reason to give the clear answers that you should give, but I understand you, because only a decent person can behave that way. Since I do not think that I am quite tolerant of these things, I will say a few words to make it clear to my fellow Members. Yes, the theme "Shist gas" is an extremely populist topic. It can be very easy to manipulate public opinion, but here, between the lines of the Patriotic Front, we have a human expert who will fully confirm what you say. On the next topic he will ask such a supplementary question. He's been researching these terrains, and he knows what it's all about. Today, we must clearly and categorically say how public and national interest is protected, and how will Bulgaria come out of energy dependence if it does not do research on its own fields? Today I would like to ask why so populist is shifting the issue, as there is no shale gas or coal gas research anywhere in the solution. In Russian, it's called "slantzium gas," you know. [[Noise and lines from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.]] It's important that we know something else. Dear Minister, the company has gone through a competition and by Decision No 718 of October 2010 has won the contest legally. Another question is that once again he wins a competition company registered in an offshore area. Bulgaria is becoming a field for the appearance of such companies. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. Today it is important to know why the construction permit of Karadere and South Stream is not raised, which practically does not serve the public interest, but makes us, Madam Minister, to buy expensive Russian gas instead of developing... Here lies the answer to the question that you do not answer out of good upbringing. My question to you is: Will MoEW control take place? Will society have clear information so that it cannot be placed on speculation and disinformation in relation to the extraction and exploration of conventional gas and oil, as happened for the field at the village of Deventsi and as it should happen with the field at Han Asparuh? Thank you. [[Applause from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u177	For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u178	Thank you both for assessing my response and the information I provided you and for the additional question. The answer to the question directly is: yes, control will be carried out by the authorities responsible for carrying out that control. But before that, there are procedures to ensure the preventative control of what will be carried out as technology and as search and survey activities on the respective terrain. This preventive control, this preventive measure, is the environmental impact assessment. Then we will have information, concrete and explicit, on the part of the contractor of the activities for the technology he will also use for the way he will use it. The moratorium for fracking, ignition and any unconventional methods is active. I can assure you that, since the entry into force of this moratorium, there has been no case in which the Ministry of Environment and Water is notified of investment proposals for exploration or extraction of oil and gas, the use of the prohibited technologies in question There's no such case. Any self-respecting investor would first comply with the rules in force in the country concerned. The Moratorium is a norm the National Assembly adopted two years ago and it is respected. Control of this will be carried out by the relevant competent authorities of the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and before that, the relevant preventive measures in the quality of EIA procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u179	Thank you. I expect a question from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Do you have any questions, colleagues? Mr. Rosen Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u180	Dear Madame Chairman, Madame Minister! I don't know if you went to Dobrudja, but people are really afraid of this thing. I'm not a specialist, but people are really afraid of this thing! They don't know the difference between fracking, coal gas, I don't know what other gas. You have to explain it in a simple and clear language. Not with an answer yes, and not which sounds like a little pregnant, but with a simple, clear language, what are the consequences for the environment if this thing happens. Not to us, but to those who live in Golden Dobrudja. They're really scared. People are scared of movies that go on TV, where when you turn on your tap, it burns gas. There's really a lot of social tension there. So we need to explain in a clear, simple language to people the extent to which this threatens the environment. My request to you is that you respond with or with no regard to the extent to which this thing threatens the environment. - Yeah, or not. To what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u181	For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u182	Thanks for asking, Mr. Petrov. Yes, I am here to explain it precisely in environmental impact assessment procedures when it comes to the activities when it comes to the resolution. Then, both by law and by the initiative of the contracting authority and at the initiative of the competent authority, broad public discussions are organised. People will be aware of exactly what is to come as a specific activity, whether there will be drillings, what these drillings will be, what technology will be used, whether they will be in zones or not; within the assessment of what would be the impact on the water horizon, on the water, on the air, on the generation of waste. Each activity will be assessed in this way and will be widely popular precisely in the context of public discussions. Then there is also the possibility of dialogue with the public when you have more details to present, details, specific information about technologies, about substances to be used, about the amount of water to be used in the relevant technologies and to be able to hold an active dialogue. As I have said several times already, we are not at this stage. We are only at the stage presented a work project which has not even gone through the approval of the competent authority "The Ministry of Economy and Energy." So this is coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u183	Do you know what stage MIE is pronounced at?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u184	On behalf of the party's group, Ataka? Mrs. Balabanov, you have two minutes to develop your question. The first time almost double the five became nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u185	Mr. Petrov, you are very mistaken that people are afraid because they are uninformed. In Dobrich and Dobrudja, there are no fools and peasants who have no idea what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u186	Mrs. Balabanov, not to Mr. Petrov, but to the Minister of the Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u187	I'm done. They're afraid, Mr. Petrov, because they're too well informed. There are intelligent people living there. Mrs. Zhekova, who is an amazing liar, doesn't know...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u188	Please refrain from qualifications and insults.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u189	He won't go to Dobrudja again because...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u190	Mrs. Balabanov, I will remove you from this room if you hold such a tone of insulting qualifications. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u191	...they'll throw stones at her, Mrs. Zhekova, just because they're very informed and intelligent. You, because you're expecting some shale patriots Gerberas, where's the Dobrudjan lobby, coworkers?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u192	Please ask your question to the Minister, and don't turn around...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u193	Don't interrupt me! Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u194	I'll interrupt when you don't ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u195	I'm asking a question right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u196	Okay, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u197	Where are the good MPs from GERB party? They got away with it! Mr. Nikolov, take attitude! You're a local, aren't you? [[Reply from the hall.]] Take the attitude! We of Ataka Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u198	Mrs. Balabanova, you are not in a declaration regime on behalf of the party. You are not in a declaration regime on behalf of the party "Attack"! You have two minutes to ask the Minister your question. Please! I think now is the time to hear your question. We're looking forward to it. [[Relations from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u199	The minister didn't answer my question because she's a liar! She didn't answer! And the president of Park Place Energy Corp himself admitted that he would produce coal gas. What kind of people are you? How can you allow them to deceive you and pretend that it is raining?! Are you onion heads?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u200	Is there a question for the Minister? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u201	Yes, there will be a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u202	Well, you have nine seconds to ask it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u203	I insist! I demand you tell me how this decision was made, exactly what made you take it and guarantee you that you will suffer the consequences. We from Ataka Party will submit a bill, a draft decision to get the Council of Ministers to cancel your decision and moratorium on banning shale, coal and any other type of gas produced by fracking, burning and any other technology!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u205	Dobrudja doesn't live in this room. Don't forget that. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u206	The Minister will answer your question. Here you are, Minister Jekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u207	I will respond directly to the question, in fact, if this decision is repealed, the legal framework for the implementation of this contract, consistent with environmental and health legislation, is effectively abolished. This decision, with the conditions in it, puts precisely these frames! [[Attack calling: Your people are traitors!]] So...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u208	Is that your answer, Mrs Jekova? Thank you. [[Replyings and calls from "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u209	The decision and the moratorium guarantee it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u210	Moving on to the second round of questions. On behalf of the GERB Party, is there a second question? I don't see anyone willing. We are currently in second-question mode and will then be relevant to the answers. I understand you're giving up on a second question. On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria? Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues! The topic is also sensitive in the debate that is taking place at the moment indeed, the aim is to find the truth and protect the national interest. Sensitiveness is from the whole society, but in Dobrudzha and Dobrich this topic is the subject of debate, of an extremely active civic position, as we are talking about the economy of the region, which will be affected, we are talking about naturalities, which in no other end of Bulgaria there is. I want to tell you that Dobrudja's greatest value is the land! Nothing else is more important! [[Applause by "Attacka."]] I would like to clarify in a few words what this is about and therefore my question to you. We are talking about a coherent overall project for the period 2014-2020. We are talking about an annual project - 2014 - search and research and work plan in which no one knows what methods will be used at this stage, but there is a solution. At the same time, this is an investment project for which an investment project I would like to point out that there is absolutely no discussion on the territory of these municipalities that are included in it, and there are four municipalities with a territory of nearly 400 sq. km. My question is this: why has the Law on Underground Treasures not been complied with for the declaration of this investment intention, its discussion and all interested parties concerned with this issue in this territory to give their opinion? What was the reason for being in such a hurry? So much to hurry that in the end we are now informed of something that is already a fact and we are looking for a solution in defence of the Bulgarian land. We are looking for a solution to protect the people who live and work in Dobrudja. I really believe that this haste, which, if you can explain it, will be good, has played an extremely large role in the negative attitude of people to the overall idea of yours, which you are defending, I see, convinced, even as an interested party, that Bulgaria has alternative sources, but this will not happen if you do not know what this is about! Thank you. [[Applause by the MP Kalina Balabanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u212	Thank you. For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u213	Thank you for your question. Again, I would like to clarify that we are not at the stage of the investigation and that demand and research are not allowed. An investment project is not allowed because it would be if it were proven to make sense of industrial extraction of natural gas from coal layers in the region. The discussions are yet to come, when the company implements part of its work plan of data collection, you will only allow me to say what this work plan contains basically before moving on to the so-called That's all we have right now. We have a work plan, we have a project for five years of work activities, but we don't have an investment proposal. When we have one, when the company is aware of what is there and how it will be appropriate to obtain it in accordance with Bulgarian legislation, only then will we have an investment project, an investment project, a project that is true to be evaluated and of the relevant public discussions, but at this stage, just to say that for the annual work project for 2014 a review of data from the National Geological Fund, a geological engineering evaluation of data, a project preparation of a project, a project for a new probe, what will be the subject of an assessment of the need for an impact assessment, of a project for a new drilling, an analysis of the nuts from the drilling, already existing, a preliminary study of the lands and components of the environment, the development of 200 km existing seismic profiles and gravimetric points. This is data processing, not foreseen in the 2014 work plan, no field activities are planned. None. Each following year, these work plans will be again subject to approval, i.e. everything is coming up in terms of authorisations. And when it comes to solving when it comes to investment proposals, because this is a work plan, then really wide public discussions will be made with all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u214	Thank you, Minister Jekova. From the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Mr. Dzhevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u215	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! My second question is: Mrs. Minister, do you commit extremely strictly to applying environmental legislation in order to protect the components of the environment and not to allow any risk to human health? And all of this to be done with an extraordinary publicity, with campaigns, including on the spot, to clarify to the public all these acts, steps and actions, decisions and projects? My question to Minister Stonov is: this way, after all these steps required in the field of conservation legislation are realized and implemented, naturally we must look for alternatives in the context of protection of national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u216	There is one clarification, Mr. Chakarov. Here, the hearing procedure is against only and solely Minister Zhekova, so there is no possibility that the minister who is waiting for the development of the next hearing will answer you. Now, for a response, Minister Zhekova, but since we will not make it to Minister Stonov, to your hearing, so that you do not waste any minutes on tomorrow, we will continue with the Programme. We just won't have enough time to develop the procedure at this request alone. [[Mr. Stonov is coming out of plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u217	Mr. Chakarov, yes. I can make this commitment and not only because, in principle, the approach of the Ministry of Environment and Water is such, but also because I believe that dialogue and really broad campaign, and broad awareness from all sides are the way to the solution of problems that arise and which we are debating today in relation to the specific work plan and project. I also mentioned, honourable MPs, the case of "Karadere" with "Coral." We in the environment are really used to fighting such severe cases. I believe that dialogue and broad awareness will help us resolve them more easily.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u218	Thank you. By the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block Mr. Veliv is preparing for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u219	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! The colleague Martin Dimitrov reminded me that a massive information campaign perhaps with the help of European funds would be useful, but this is more like his recommendation, which I am expressing on behalf of the Reformation bloc. But what I've become about is that the way some colleagues react here makes me think that the information campaign should also be related to attracting sufficiently good professionals in this area. I mean colleagues as they are, to say, at the Mining and Geological University, where I have the honour to teach, or at the Geological Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and elsewhere. You just planted something here that I want you to clear up. I don't know if it was your little mistake about Overgas, and it was in some negative context. I don't know if you should have done it, but now I ask you to explain it, because what I know about Overgass is that about two years ago they had assigned an international team of scientists to prepare a report related to possible negative environmental and water impacts specifically It is true that there is a drilling around 900 m, which was used at least earlier for the water supply from the water supply from the water water supply. Now, I don't know what the situation is, but if the nut is from that well you mentioned earlier, it certainly won't be informative enough. Are you aware of this report and do you not think that it should be used especially in that part where we have hydrogeological modeling by colleagues from Minno-Geological University, including addressing the problem of waterproof faults between carbon and moisture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u220	For an answer, the minister of service, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u221	Thank you for that clarification. I'm not exactly familiar with the report, but I'd like to know, I'd like to know. I mentioned it in the context of the selection procedure in the specific project, but in no way suggests that there are no good studies and reports, because in the particular region, including this company, as they are also interested, and we know this from searching and exploring this territory for oil and natural gas, so I would get acquainted with it. With regard to the involvement of the scientific field in assessments, in public discussions, I fully share your thinking on this issue. I would like to point out that a special Scientific and Technical Council, including representatives of the scientific community, has been established with the Ministry of Economy and Energy, apart from representatives of different departments and ministries. This council examines precisely future permits to search and explore any underground wealth, not just oil and natural gas. On the basis of his opinion, the Minister of Economy and Energy has been helped to decide whether to authorise or not, respectively, so that the participation of the scientific community is extremely valuable in our work. Yes, perhaps they should also be included in public discussions. It would not only be necessary, but it would be extremely valuable to include them in public discussions with the stakeholders and the public concerned in order to be able to make informed decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-30.u222	Thank you. In the remaining few minutes until the end of the plenary day, I am obliged to announce the questions and questions to tomorrow's parliamentary control, which is why we will interrupt this meeting for today and continue it tomorrow with the questions. The colleagues from the Patriotic Front, the Bulgarian Democratic Center, the Ataka and the ABB were on the move. Questions for Parliamentary Control on 31 October 2014, Friday, 11.00: - the Deputy Minister of Economic Policy, Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Investment Design Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs: Georgi Andonov - Minister of Economy and Energy Vasil Stonov will answer three questions from the MPs: Krasimir Yankov and two joint questions from the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov; - the Minister of Finance Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Rumen Gechev; - the Minister of the Environment and Waters Svetlana Zhekova will answer a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova. On the basis of art. 90, para. Art. 3 and Art. 93, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Georgi Bliznashki to three questions from the MPs: Maya Manolova - the Minister of the Interior Yordan Bakalov of two questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Atanas Merdjanov; - Minister of Education and Science Rumyana Kolarova on a question from the National Representative Milena Damyanova; - Minister of Defence Velizar Shalamanov on a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Health Miroslav Nenkov on a question from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Daniela Daritkova; - the Minister of Agriculture and Food Vassil Grudev of two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stanislav Ivanov. On the basis of art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for lack of respectable reasons the answer to a question from the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva to the Minister of Economics and Energy Vasil Stonov is postponed. Tomorrow the meeting will begin at 9.00, with the intended item first for Friday: Report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance on the Report of the Bulgarian National Bank on the events and the actions taken related to the Corporate Commercial Bank. If we have time, we will move on to point seven of the programme: hearing the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism on the deal with the German private company. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
