ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I ask each of you to register. We have the necessary quorum. I'm opening today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the traditionally established protocol and agreement between the parliamentary political forces represented, this important meeting, setting the beginning of the work of the Forty-third National Assembly, is broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Ladies and gentlemen, seriously or as a joke, it turns out that I am once again the oldest MP and this gives me the right and responsibility to address you in the hopes that this time I will be a better godfather for the future of our joint work. Honorable Mr. President, Your Holinesss, Your Excellencies, Dear Ministers, Dear Spectators and Radio Listeners! The trout is the bouquet of parties that sent their representatives to this room. Many and different are the directions of the messages with which we convinced our voters. Nevertheless, I very much hope that the wisdom of our people will help us mobilize and unite our thoughts in the name of the revival of his well-deserved self-esteem. The difficult birth of this Parliament has proven that we have neglected many of the principles of so-called democracy and can no longer postpone the treatment of Bulgarian public life. We must honestly look the truth in the eye and urgently propose the most important steps on the road to national salvation. So step by step to try to restore people's trust in order to activate their participation in public processes. Many people still expect us to change what we all promised them. Young people are looking for reason to improve and remain in the Republic of Bulgaria, the elderly people are worthy of payback for their work, the people of the business expect guarantees for their creativity and economic activity, and the artists and people of science are looking forward to their creative inspiration. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is even a drop of blood left in our hearts, true to the Kubrat Testament, the Unity makes power, we must unite reason and strength, because nothing is more important than the welfare of our nation and only our common efforts can bear fruit for its future. Guided by this will, I suggest that we proceed to the most important part of our work today. Please stand up and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]] I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore. [[Applause. Sounds the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria. Sounds the anthem of the European Union, MPs from the Party of Ataka are sitting.]] Dear colleagues, I sincerely wish you all to be safe and sound, to have the strength to do all that the voters ask of us! Good luck to you from the bottom of my heart. [[Applause.]] After he expressed his desire to address the Bulgarian Parliament, I give the floor to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rosen Plevneliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman of the first session of the Forty-third National Assembly! Dear Prime Minister! Dear Madam Vice President! Your Holiness! Mr. Chairman of the Constitutional Court! Dear Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Dear leaders of the religious communities in Bulgaria, Your excellences! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear guests, dear compatriots! First of all, I would like to wish success to all elected MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly. I'm sure you're already feeling the responsibility of the people's trust. High expectations of you from society require honesty and tireless work. Bulgarian citizens want to live a decent life. In order to increase the quality of life in the country, reforms, effective policies and institutions are needed, facing people, and the real problems of the state and society to accompany our daily work. The election battles are over. Now we face reality and the difficult but important decisions that are ahead. I sincerely hope that the National Assembly will become an institution where political forces oppose their ideas and arguments, and personal and party oppositions and contradictions will remain in the background. Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and none of the important steps for the state can be taken without a working and stable parliament. I believe that parliamentary democracy and the multiparty political system are the most valuable achievements of the Bulgarian transition. We must not allow ourselves to erosion of public trust in these values. If with our behavior, we feed the maxim: Everyone is a masquerade, we alienate the citizens from political representation, weaken the institutions and block the development of the democratic state. Retail political accounts create a nutritional environment for any kind of populism and extravagant ideas for change, including the form of government. Bulgaria does not need messiahs that decide what is right and what is not. There is no magic formula that without a common effort to lead us on the path of prosperity. The solution is a job for the benefit of the people. The decision is in strict compliance with the rule of law and the separation of powers. Unprincipled opposition, sharp attacks and political spells lead to the fact that today half of our countrymen, unfortunately, do not vote. This puts to the test the very foundations of the democratic device. In such a clash, there are no winners, we lose everyone, we lose the state, and the most lied to in anticipation remain the citizens. In order to restore trust in the institutions, in political parties and in general in parliamentaryism, it is necessary publicly and responsibly to fulfill what we have promised. The people have spoken their heavy word by voting. Now the politicians are on the move. Only with reason and a nationally responsible approach, with much more work and much less scandals and senseless opposition can we be useful to society. Whether we like the results of these elections or not, we are obliged to read them properly and find the solutions that the people expect of us. Bulgarian citizens want a working state that guarantees justice, social protection and compliance by everyone. The past years have shown that aggressive pursuit of personal and narrow party interests are part of the mistakes of young democracy, but they are doomed to failure. In 25 years a new, free generation has grown in Bulgaria, which has become a true civil society with a ruthless corrective of everyone who understands politics as a series of agreements and demagogical explanations to convenient media. I wish the forty-third National Assembly to show the true face of politics and parliamentaryism. The Bulgarian citizens placed on all of you, the MPs, a complex but clear task of seeking the common one between you by keeping your differences. From the positions that will now take over every single political force, it will be determined whether diversity can become wealth, because it is precisely when we compare the priorities of a larger number of political entities that we can highlight very clearly and most important national priorities. Narrow party interests must yield to national interests. Bulgaria needs a working parliament and a regular government. Let us show that Bulgarian democracy is ripe for principled and working coalitions as well. It is very possible that Bulgaria will be governed by coalitions for many years to come. That's not necessarily bad. On the contrary, coalition culture is an integral part of any democracy. Let us replace the Balkan with the European approach, not handing out positions or power at all costs, but what makes sense to do in the country and who is most competent to do it. We no longer trust revolutions, messiahs, populists, that's good. Instead of strong people, let us choose the strong institutions, let us bet on the modern patriotism that teaches us to love our homeland and devote ourselves to our people. Let us distinguish ourselves from misunderstood nationalism, which has a hatred for the different, which leads to isolation and poverty. The public needs responsible and competent leaders in the economy, state and politics. Let us give them a way forward in the 21st century, not back to the heritage and dependences of the communist regime. The Bulgarian citizens expressed their fondness for European values in a few consecutive elections. Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and NATO, not because one government or one parliament decided so years ago, but because the value system of the Bulgarian civil society is European because the Bulgarian people have long made their democratic choice and the task ahead of all of us is to defend and guarantee the democratic and European choice of Bulgaria. This is what the Apostle of Liberty left us to find our worthy place in the European family and to build our pure and holy republic. Dear MPs, instability today is the biggest threat to Bulgaria. It is important to achieve a higher level of political and institutional stability. It is important for the economy, for the incomes, for the regions, for the creation of jobs and for the better life of Bulgarian citizens. The combination of many and different crises - internal and external - leads to instability. There are many problems and do not wait for us, and the time for their solution is running out. Debts and deficits are growing, and investments are at unsatisfactory levels. Unreformed sectors are already draining the small resource for meaningful investments in the country. I welcome the new approach that the political forces demonstrated prior to the constitution of the Forty-third National Assembly............................................................................................... Such an approach works for trust and achieving a higher level of stability in the country. I hope that this new and constructive approach will not be left behind immediately after the formation of a government, but will become the basis of broad political support for reforms and actions in the public interest. This is the wish of the Bulgarian citizens, which we can read in the election results because not the arithmetic approach, not the automatic collection of two, three or more political forces, but the broad support for national responsible policies will restore the trust of the Bulgarians in the institutions and politics. The continuation of reforms in the judiciary, energy, education, health care, pension insurance, the way regulators, e-government, modern infrastructure, energy efficiency and diversification work, these are strategically important tasks in which you have no compelling differences. In my speech to the Forty-second National Assembly, I called on the MPs to adopt a declaration on Parliament's priorities. Instead, it was set, unfortunately, on a destructive approach that deepened the crisis and the country wasted valuable time. We now see clearly how harmful it is to the state when political struggles become personal battles at all costs. Honourable MPs, trust is the key to success - trusting citizens, but also trusting partners and investors. It is not only investment that can quickly create the desired jobs and incomes. The liberalisation of the internal market, independent and effective regulators, the rule of law, the good business environment are the driver of public confidence investments. The more transparency and forecastability in the economy and institutions, the more competition and effective regulation, the better prices and services for people. See the sector....................................................... on the one hand.................................................................................................................................................................................................... Bulgaria today is seventh in the world at the speed of the Internet. Thirty thousand well paid jobs for young Bulgarians were created in the last ten years. And back in the energy sector, we have sunk into decades of populism and inefficiency, and I would like to point out to date the figure we are losing a billion leva a year. These are two different Bulgarians. Let us unblock the good Bulgaria and the bad correction. Let us launch the national energy efficiency, liberalisation and diversification programme. This will make millions of Bulgarians. Let us continue the fair debate on the Bulgarian energy in the energy board. Let us speed up the implementation of major infrastructure projects. The meaningful investments are those in education, competitiveness, productivity and employment, modern infrastructure, energy efficiency for everyone. I call for broad political agreement, urgent anti-crisis actions and important structural reforms. Bulgarian citizens with their voice give us a clear sign that in the 21st century in a united and democratic Europe, the power of a politician is not measured by winning battles at all costs, but by achieving good results and making responsible decisions for the nation. The search for compromise is not weakness, it is not political unprincipledness, on the contrary. It is now that we have eight parties in Parliament that each of the political forces must focus on its ability to find compromises. It is easy and tempting to again bet on aggressive rhetoric, radical behaviour, insults, accusations, deepening differences, but such behavior will not move us forward and bring us out of the whirlpool of crises that lead to lasting uncertainty and instability and as a result of this poverty and new wave of emigration. A quarter of a century since the fall of the totalitarian communist regime, Bulgarian society has already recognised democratic values, follows them and on their basis will give an assessment of the work of every politician and every National Assembly. The power of a politician, I believe, is a function of its effectiveness. I wish all political forces to find the positive in those of the opponent and to work for agreement. We have the basis of this consensus. The priorities of the National Development Programme "Bulgaria 2020" were approved with full political consensus of the Advisory Council on National Security with the President. Let us implement the programme "Bulgaria 2020" in a dignified way, regardless of who is in power. The Partnership Agreement with the European Commission by 2020 is also a result of a public consensus and has already been approved. This document is a strategic plan for investments, for reforms that will contribute to the much needed economic growth and increase the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens. Implementation of the agreement in the coming years requires national agreement, continuity and strong political will to implement the reforms set out in it. These reforms can no longer be postponed, and the European Commission will be our partner in this process. We could get over 15 billion. euros, but no euros are guaranteed. We have a lot of work to do so that we can invest this resource in quality projects in a transparent and effective way. Dear Members of Parliament, let pessimism and crisis stand aside for meaningful action step by step, day by day. The list of pressing tasks is long. The update of the budget for 2014, as well as the resolution of the KTB case are only one of them. Already in the middle of this year, the International Monetary Fund saw a great risk to budget revenues, expressed concern about the growth of expenditure, paid particular attention to the growing debts of state-owned enterprises and, in particular, in energy. The update of the budget is necessary in urgent order not to block vital systems in the country. Thank you in advance for your responsible attitude. The CCB case raises many questions about the way Bulgarian regulators, financial intelligence, special services, judicial authorities and institutions as a whole work. It is necessary to take decisive measures and reforms to break corruption schemes, influence networks and inefficiencies in the sector of the economy, public procurement and institutions in general. I have already pointed out that if you cover the truth about KTB, the changed transition of Bulgaria will last for many years. The truth must not be suppressed, traded or conveniently converted into a means of pressure. This will be a strategic mistake for the state and politicians, which will not be forgiven by our children. The whole model of government money control, public procurement, media, politicians, institutions should come out. The model should be dismantled and not replicated again. The single supervisory mechanism as the first pillar of the European banking union is already a fact. Our place is also there, recalling that we have already reached a consensus on this. We now need to carry out the membership procedure in a dignified way. Dear MPs, let us support the patriotism and the feeling of mission of the Bulgarian people, let us raise its self-confidence by showing that state and people that politicians and citizens work together and responsible for the modernization of the country! Let us create and build on the sense of unity, of progress, of common goal and direction for the nation and for the country! I wish you success in your mission for a better Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask the Quaestors to issue the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-third National Assembly. Don't you have it, or is it distributed? We're gonna start the business representative. I give the floor to Mr. Boyko Borisov for a speech on behalf of the parliamentary group of political party GERB. [[National Representative Boyko Borisov kissed the hand of Patriarch Neofit.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u4	Your Holiness, Mr. President, Vice President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencies! I will be very brief, as we are expected to say what we think about the government. I'm not going to go into an analysis of the past because it won't bring us anything in the future. Every political party must have a lot of reasons to say what it thinks against others. Time and people have given us another task to seek not what separates us, but what could unite us to do some work. It is also not fair that every few months we should assign the president to make a caretaker government, and we, political parties, should enjoy which greater confrontation might be necessary. There are three options because, in fact, after yesterday's meeting with Mr. Mikov, for which I thank him, he publicly said that even if he received a mandate, he would return it, even purely mathematical accounts do not allow a government to be formed except in the first term. Yes, the people put us first, but so they put us together so that this mandate would be common to this entire parliament. I truly hope that the leaders of other parties understand it as I do. Winter elections. I don't comment at all on which parties are ready. In this winter, which we saw in October, it may be that in mid-January they cannot take the ballots to a section if we go to elections. These choices can put us even in a worse configuration. I believe that we all need to make great efforts and will and, I repeat, it is not fair for the Presidential institution to give her three more months of winter, to deal with the problems. It's not fair! As chairman of the GERB party today, I discussed this with all my colleagues. We have three options. I'm ready to take responsibility and fulfill all three options. Therefore, I will invite all parties' leaders and we will agree on whether tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, as you are comfortable, to make a common decision which option to choose. I'm ready to take full responsibility. I understand that this may be disastrous for the party, but it would be more devastating if we didn't make a government or go to January and then try to make a government, that is, that would be irresponsible of us. There are three options. I hope with my reformers colleagues, the Patriotic Front expressed their support under a certain programme, with the other parties we have all found, with the exception of the................Attack, far more common points than problematic if we say to form a government. This is the kind of government I'm ready to head. It can be with three subversives for the government's deadlines. Short term elections two in one in the mayor's elections. This will be an unstable government, unstable as time, because until such a new administration of ministers has worked, deputy ministers in this difficult situation, it will take at least a few months. Purely technological, until they get to know each other. I've already done this once. It's no coincidence that everyone says, a hundred days, it's like they don't count as government, because that's the minimum tolerance for it. The second option is the period, elections two in one with the President. The third option is not about a term, that is, no one can say: Yok, we want four years what happens, but we talk without a horizon, in the sense of a four-year term. Then I guarantee you that I will not be the person who will take GERB out to go as a candidate in my face for presidential elections. In the third option, I will not run for president after two and a half years to fall all the speculation that we are setting the party for presidential elections. I'm saying it from the stands, and I hope he doesn't speculate about it anymore. At this leadership meeting, I will hear your opinion. Of course, I expressed my opinion yesterday, which I am also confirming now that if political leaders are involved in a government simply as a guarantor, I believe it will be more stable, but because we accept that the mandate is ours, common, I cannot place that condition on anyone. Whether the reformers will participate in and what composition is their business, whether the patriots, or, accordingly, everyone else who has stated a desire, I accept that this is your right, but my opinion is that this would be more stable. There's another option. I am ready to accept the reformers' proposal not to be prime minister. This will be an option in which I do not even know if I can control the ministers we will broadcast from GERB. It's up to us. I'm ready for dialogue in the name of the state. As you can see, I didn't speak on purpose until now to say it from the platform of parliament. What the President said, everything is, as the reformers say, in our hands. If you want to do it. I am ready for every option, as long as it guarantees stability and in this order of thinking that we should not burden the presidential institution with our affairs any more. This concludes because I am afraid that anything in excess, which I say, would torpedo fragile peace and thank everyone who participated in the consultations, for the exceptional dialogue and responsibility. Thank you very much. In my opinion, it was well accepted by society and the people that, after all, people have come to parliament who are really willing to sacrifice ourselves, the parties or, let's not sound so arrogant, but let's do our job for the sake of those who sent us. There's a lot of bills, a lot of games, a lot of thin plans, I'm not gonna stick myself in them. People have given us this responsibility, we'll take it. I just want to repeat, the presidential election is not part of my plans at all, and I'm asking you not to speculate on this. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. People's representative Boyko Borisov kisses the Patriarch's hand.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u5	Thank you to Mr. Borisov. I give the floor to Mr. Mihail Mikov for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria. [[National Representative Mikhail Mikov kisses the hand of the Patriarch.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u6	Thank you, dear Professor Danailov. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Holiness, honourable representatives of religious religions, Your Excellencies from diplomatic missions, Dear Ministers, Honorable President of the Constitutional Court and senior magistrates! On the threshold of the establishment of the third legislation in the last five years, we can't help but feel a sense of some disturbance. Where does it come from? The configuration in the new parliament is extremely diverse and colourful, although 124 MPs from the Forty-second National Assembly are together again. A total of eight parties and coalitions are presented. Does this, however, make the Forty-third National Assembly the most representative parliament? More than half of Bulgarian citizens remain unpresented. The majority of our fellow citizens preferred not to be active in the political process, and this is a circumstance for which we should be aware of our work in the Forty-third National Assembly. What are the reasons for this? What makes people distance themselves from politics? What gave rise to the general sense of mistrust in the state, in the institutions, in the parties? These are some of the questions that are important today, and we must constantly seek their answers. But aside from the reasons, we must also think about the means to restore society, to restore dialogue between all of us, to restore the authority of the state and to make the mechanisms under which the democratic, social and rule of law function more sustainable. Last year and a half was dominated by protests and comments by politicians and analysts. Everyone wanted new elections, everyone saw a panacea for democracy in our country. Is it the election that solves all problems? I highly doubt that. And now it is established that discontent and distrust are again present. Because the reasons for them are much deeper and cannot be eliminated by elections alone. Because the elections in themselves do not decide anything if the important principles of democracy are affected if the structure of our society is affected for one reason or another. We warned about it, but we were left unheard. It doesn't matter anymore! Now the most important task of all of us, of each single parliamentary group, will be to make good efforts to overcome the deficits of mistrust in our society and to bring our country back to the path of modern parliamentaryism and democracy. So in my address today, I would like to address these two in more detail: how did this situation come about, and what can we do to overcome it? Today we are experiencing the consequences, not of the decisions made by the forty-two National Assembly, but of the decisions of the last 25 years of the neoliberal transition and its heritage, which is a complete denial of the social state, and therefore cannot be fair enough. We bear the consequences of the absence of continuity on major national priorities between different governments.. there are no actions for reforms that are more spoken of than are being made, the sense of injustice that no government wanted to oppose to the end, the sense of corruption and the lack of blame for it. All parliamentary represented parties should assume their responsibility in the situation created by them, which the people have commanded to rule, to take their role dignifiedly and according to voters' expectations. Responsible behaviour is required from all parliamentary groups, not just those who will support the government. Each government requires national responsibility, but not always national responsibility means governance. A political party can bring out an even heavier part of this national responsibility if it feels and takes proper account of attitudes in society and overcomes its interest in taking part in governance at all costs. Being opposition, a responsible political force can contribute much more to restoring trust if it takes its role and acts constructively. It is necessary to put an end to destruction in political life and restore confidence in the state, institutions and multiparty democracy, bringing together priorities that are national in the real sense of the word. We will also participate in the solution of problems of national importance, such as the case with KTB, the need to update the budget and the problems in the sector. Let us refrain from vague formulas of governance that will not help to overcome the crisis in our democratic development. No programming, no expert governments. Every government supported by more than one political power is now a coalition. It's not fair to people to hide behind these formulas and to think that we're running away from our responsibility. Dear Mr. President, dear Members of the House! "BSP left Bulgaria" is a national and national responsible party and we will behave accordingly to these characteristics. We will be supporting the country's Euro-Atlantic course and constructive opposition. We will submit alternative bills, support the bills that we agree with and vote on projects that we do not agree with, because for us expressing a clear position is a way to make the alternative clear. As opposition, we will work to improve the quality of the legislation and accountability of the independent regulators, a function of the National Assembly, which we have quite neglected in previous parliaments. We will be actively involved in parliamentary control. We will insist on continuing and deepening the good practices of the Forty-second National Assembly for rapid control, for the direct broadcast of the committees' meetings. And in the previous parliament there was a declaration of national agreement, a second question is who supported it and who did not. But we are ready to participate in the discussion and to outline these priorities that unite us now in the Forty-third National Assembly. We will not retreat from the so-called red lines of our platform. We won't do it again. They will outline in general our political behaviour in this National Assembly. It is from this position that we have the legitimization to be representatives of the authentic left and to be a social alternative to emerging right-wing. Our goal is to continue to build on what has been achieved in the social sphere. Ladies and gentlemen! The protests that have flowed in Europe for years have been essentially about preserving the social state from the blows of neoliberalism. It's the same with us, conscious or unconscious. Although the social state for the past 25 years has remained at moments without visible and clear political media, its left idea has not been destroyed. We from BSP left Bulgaria will be that political winner who will accept the social state as its main ideology to continue its development, which suffered seriously in the times of transition. Socially fair society is not built without democracy. Therefore, in validating the beginning for the social state, we also see a powerful means of combating the sense of injustice throughout society. It is about continuing the efforts of economic progress, but we should always remember that economic progress does not in itself guarantee social justice, but economic progress without social justice serves the interests of a very limited range of people. We do not want this with the constant thought of the state and the people, because we have unfinished priorities from the Forty-second National Assembly. Combating poverty, because the funds for the poor and the correction of injustices are not a remainder of the budget, but an investment of the state in social capital and is returned by stimulating consumption and development of production, by reducing the cruel inequalities in which we live today, which tear apart the public tissue of modern Bulgaria. BSP left Bulgaria is for more justice through progressive income taxation, a worthy amount of pensions, care for people with disabilities, care for the small and medium-sized entrepreneur. We will demand measures against youth unemployment as a permanent priority. Ladies and gentlemen! The state decisively and without unnecessary complexes of the past must enter into its active role as a regulator and market participant, as an investor in key sectors of the economy and a guarantor of social rights and benefits. Everything I have said and what we will do from BSP left Bulgaria will disprove in practice the claim of neoliberalists that there is no left or right anymore. There is a left, there is a right, and we have the ambition and in this National Assembly to constantly prove this. Dear Members of Parliament, I wish success to all the political forces that are represented here, and I wish with our work to refute the words of Bernard Shaw, who was not a parliamentarians and perhaps did not understand these things, that democracy is the only form of organisation of the state that ensures that we will not be better managed than we deserve. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if I have to pretend to be President, I would like to say that the speech regulation is eight minutes. Mr. Mikov skipped four whole minutes for the eight. Please keep that in mind. Mr. Mestan, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Presidents of the National Assembly, Your Holinesss After nearly two years of political instability in the DPS, we expected the symbolic importance of the Forty-third National Assembly to be primarily in the smooth transition to political stability. Our reading of the situation after the Eurovot made it possible today to discuss not whether and when there will be early elections, but to discuss in a colorful political environment the future of the Republic of Bulgaria, but also in the context of authentic parliamentaryism. This matter is settled here. We are called to pave the way for a successful Euro-Atlantic Bulgaria. The forty-third parliament is coming at an extremely critical time. If I use a physical term, we are faced with simultaneous resonance twitching of several crisis elements: budget deficit, the problem of Corporate Commercial Bank, the inverted pyramid of the health insurance system, truncated systems such as healthcare and on this background we see social populism, emphasizing intolerance to natural market mechanisms with claiming political carriers. And last but not least, perhaps in front of parentheses, is a phenomenon which Bulgarian citizens who are sensitive to the threats of democracy feel especially painfully national populism. We are facing a more and more pronounced lack of vision about what should be the essence of the modern Bulgarian state, in what society we want to live in, are we able to be European citizens with Balkan cultural roots and which of these roots we want to dominate in our essence the tolerance or hatred? The movement for rights and freedoms is ready for a deep real conversation with the language of the facts about the systemic problems and vices of Bulgarian democracy and we will not allow this conversation to be replaced by the convenient for our political opponents, but a useless, even dangerous strategy for producing myths that reduce the systemic vice to one party or worse to several persons. We begin with the stench of the Corporate Commercial Bank, ladies and gentlemen, because this case shows in full measure the difference between truth and myth. The truth about KTB is beyond the myth of the bank of DPS and we will get to it. If you refuse to participate, you will have already admitted that the shadow of KTB does not weigh on the DPS. And which parties and which malicious political figures will emerge from the bank's vaults is a question whose answer we owe not only to the tens of thousands of depositors, but also to the Bulgarian society as a whole. We will continue with the topic of buying votes, who appoints very important questions in the judiciary, I repeat, with the language of the facts and not in the captivity of the mythologists. We have a problem with suggestion, with anti-DPS suggestion. We don't have a problem with the truth. What matters is the question who and why is producing after the elections again anti-DPS hysteria?! In fact, we know why: it aims to create a favorable emotional environment in which an open anti-European, anti-NATO alliance is possible, not between the right and the centre, but between the right and national populism, because national populism is not positioned on the coordinate system of civilisational political directions. National populism is neither center nor modern patriotism, but is antisystemic by nature. Mr. President, it was with you that we agreed that a smooth transition to stability suggests that we should not return to denied models of governance. The management format, which is hinted at today and which is clearly coming, is ideologically incompatible. How will Euro-Atlanticism be compatible with terms such as: "Europe to mind its own business" with the request to review the Agreement on NATO Bases in Bulgaria, for example? In the search for a self-targeted arithmetic majority, we risk losing Bulgaria's civilization direction. The Arithmetic Congregation becomes an agreement if it does not step on a clear value, democratic foundation. Even if a majority of 202 is achieved, this is still not the basis for stable governance. It's gone. It's gone. It's gone. It would be a pity if here of helping to compensate for the inability to be brought out and united into a whole variety of ideas, you are not the common sense of your management, but the denial built on rhetoric and behavior. I'm opening the clamp because we need to talk now not about the anti-antis, but about the nons, but the same thing about the DPS!! I wouldn't want that to be the explanation for the protests in Kyustendil, Yambol and Gabrovo, with the cherry balls. Who's behind the cherry balls and who and what are they shooting at today? What place do the symbols of the national-liberation struggle of the Bulgarian people have in the contemporary political landscape of European Bulgaria? From whom should Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Parliament be released? By Iliya Iliev, by Alexander Metodiev, by Chetin Kazak. Every Bulgarian citizen, supposedly with equal rights to choose and be elected. What people are freed from their countrymen? And why this suffrage is asking with pain. Why is the mandate of worthy Bulgarian politician Chetin Kazak a problem with 3,000. the vote in Gabrovo, and not a problem only the 1400 votes with which Ataka took a mandate in Silistra against 8015 for BSP without a mandate? Why are there no protests in Silistra, Mrs. Manolova, and Chetin Kazak's mandate in Gabrovo is a problem? [[Noise, excitement in GERB.]] We would continue with the examples, but more importantly, the relentless conclusion is that the phenomenon does not affect only DPS, and the anomalies are the result of a misguided methodology. The movement for rights and freedoms not only is not a co-author, but rightly presented its objections, so the protest against its own creation is another paradox. [[Applause from GERB.]] I agreed to go to Kyustendil because that's how I understand my political responsibility. The point of politics is to prevent, not create conflicts. Problems must be solved face to face, in bold and direct dialogue. However, I was led above all by the mention and respect by Dimitar Peshev, who in 1943 at the risk of his political career and his security stood up for the Bulgarian Jews. In Bulgaria the Jews had the chance to live among the tolerant people who had their strong democratic leaders. In other countries, hatred of the Jews was that unifying denominator that united and intoxicated the exalted to rematched crowds. Today is not the time for rematching. It is time to read history not only as the past, but in real time! In today's real moment the DPS is a key guarantor for the democratic process, a fundamental element of the Euro-Atlantic architecture of Bulgaria! We are aware of our mission in not allowing Bulgaria to deviate from its civilization choice; constantly reminding that democracy is in diversity and that is the meaning of our message! We can do without power, but we cannot be separated from the democratic political process because we are one of its supports! I conclude with the awareness of the responsibility that we are in this room with 38 record mandates given for the only political power that does not lose, but raises confidence. It is also a matter of political responsibility for us to support, without participating in government, if necessary, a clear Euro-Atlantic profile of the next Bulgarian cabinet! I repeat, even without participation in the government, because we know that centre-right governance, which is unalternative, given GERB's first position, is not possible to obtain a majority without the Movement for Rights and Freedoms! But we will not support an unprincipled anti-European anti-NATO coalition! And we would be honored to be clear, clear but modern opposition to a similar management format! We will not leave any discriminatory act or any other measure aimed at human rights unanswered. God bless us with enlightenment! Good luck! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u9	I give the floor to Mr. Radan Kanev, after him to Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. [[Radio in the left block.]] The deal is they're sharing the eight minutes. [[The National Representative Radan Kanev kissed the hand of Patriarch Neofit.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u10	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, heads of religious confessions, your excellences, senior magistrates, ladies and gentlemen MPs! We are here at the will of the Bulgarian citizens, both those who voted and those who did not trust and wished not to exercise their right to vote. It is only for the second time that such a large percentage of the voters are represented in the Bulgarian Parliament and for the first time more than 50% of the Bulgarian citizens have not exercised their right to vote. Our presence here is therefore doubly binding because it is obviously the result of the last drops of patience of Bulgarian citizens to representative parliamentary democracy. In this role we have at least three main tasks. First of all, to start restoring trust in parliament and parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. Let's get the power back where it belongs in the parliamentary republic. Returning parliament to its role as an institution that solves the most important issues to the nation and does not obey ministerial orders. Secondly, let us begin the important reforms, whose postponement put to the test the very existence of the rule of law in Bulgaria and its place not as formal, but a true member of the Community of European Peoples, which is our revival, not a fresh or conjunctural ideal. The lack of reforms that ultimately squeezed the national economy and the national wealth of Bulgaria and killed the entrepreneurial spirit of a huge part of the Bulgarians or at least encouraged them to realize it outside the borders of the Bulgarian state. In order to fulfil these two objectives, but only as a means, it is our third task to establish a responsible and courageous government to give a strong, clear legislative framework, as well as rules that will prevent it from carrying out another abuse of public authority and further undermine the prestige of democracy in Bulgaria. In order to achieve all three objectives, because they are the mandatory minimum for the forty-third parliament, we must remember that democracy is a system created to seek a compromise between different interests, different values and different currents and groups in a society; that Parliament has emerged to be a field of this compromise. So this fragmentation of the Forty - Third National Assembly is not necessarily its disadvantage in view of the tasks that stand before it. It reminds us and helps us to understand these facts, which are the history and soul of parliamentaryism. In this Parliament, we must seek the compromise, but the necessary compromise on reforms, not the well-known false compromise and even the false consensus of the fake elite. These are two completely different and even opposite things. We must form a government according to the will of the Bulgarian people, but not a government for all to leave the Bulgarian people in opposition. The voters ruled for a very difficult right-wing government and quite difficult left-wing opposition in the forty-third parliament. And we all need to show the humility and persistence to achieve as a real result what the election results themselves command. We of the Reformation bloc will make every compromise, except with our view of the most important public interest... a bold start to judicial reform, administrative reform and a blow to corruption in public procurement and European funds. We will never allow a violation of human rights and European standards of tolerance for the different. We will be the unconditional guarantor of the majority if we come to this result to prevent human rights violations. But we will never allow an umbrella of corruption and outrage to be held behind the human rights card in Bulgarian justice. We will show humility in person and subject our ambitions to a difficult and risky common work, but we will not allow our humility to become a reconciliation with the taking over of the state from private, often criminal interests that we have witnessed in recent decades, because this would mean reconciliation with the poverty of our fellow citizens today, with the lawlessness our fellow citizens suffer today, with the collapse of education and health for us and for our children. Finally, something extremely important is what we think. We must all accept our own presence here as a necessity or even an act of personal humility. Let's forget the false self-esteem of belonging to the national elite of Bulgaria. Unfortunately, Bulgaria's national elite has long been rarely entering this building, and we today's and temporary residents can rely on it mostly on the price of our clothing. Our personal humility in front of the huge, immediate, and strategic problems faced by society can bring this national elite back to this room as a well-meaning critic, either as an advisor, or, God forbid, as a minister. We need this because we're not gonna be able to do this alone. We are not the best of the Bulgarian nation, but the Bulgarian nation has entrusted us with the responsibility to deal with this difficult situation. We must seek compromise, we must seek consensus, but consensus on rules, not consensus on our own privileges. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u11	Mrs. Kuneva, but keep in mind that almost eight minutes have passed. [[(Radio.) People's representative Meglena Kuneva greets Patriarch Neofit by touching his hands.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Chairman of the first meeting of the Forty-third National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Your Holiness! Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Members of the House, Members of the House, Mr. Prosecutor General, Heads of the Religious Communities in Bulgaria, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen! I will really shorten my introductory words on behalf of the Reformation Bloc, but let me still address the MPs from the Forty-third National Assembly with a wish for a noble performance of our duty to Bulgarian citizens and to our country. On behalf of the Reformation bloc, I would like to declare that we will work to create and strengthen a reformist majority to put this Parliament into service to the Bulgarian citizens. I'll start where my colleague, Mr. Kanev, graduated. I will start with a declaration, with a statement which I consider very important on behalf of the right sector to which the Reformation Block belongs. Firstly, the Reformation bloc realizes that Bulgaria is in a political and economic crisis, which would be deepened by new elections and another unstable or without parliamentary basis government, so we call on the political forces to realise that a minority government would be the third government that will not make it through its mandate. Secondly, the Reformation bloc gives courage to GERB as the first political force to fulfil their assigned role as a mandate carrier and to form a stable government. However, we give this courage, not unconditionally, but against clear guarantees for reforms. Thirdly, the Reformation bloc does not approve of passive monitoring of governance at the side, while the country is actively entering systemic political, economic and financial upheavals, so we qualify as a matter of courage the political figures from the parliamentary parties to commit themselves firmly to governance without calculating personal or party risk and without political desertion. Fourth, the Reformation bloc will not be an obstacle to forming a centre-right government. We are part of the solution to the stability of the country, not the problem of stability. We declare our full readiness to assume political and personal responsibility in fulfilling our duty to stability and call on the political forces to support a centre-right cabinet with a clear political responsibility of their leadership. Fifthly, the Reformation bloc calls for our consent not to let you down. We will be opposed to all practices that disagree with your principles. Sixth, the Reformation bloc calls on us to give Europe a sign of strong political will for a stable Bulgarian mandate of the Presidency of the European Union in 2018, proving that we are able to bear political responsibility first, for our country, and with the rapid formation of a responsible, party, political cabinet. Seventhly, the Reformation bloc will work to reach an agreement on a new Constitution that will reflect the new realities of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union and in accordance with the new requirements of citizens to their state. This was the European Parliament's call. I believe that the forty-third National Assembly will be the true European Parliament of Bulgaria and convince the Bulgarians in the power of action and in the sense of reforms, I believe that it will be an ally of Bulgarian citizens on the way to our remarkable chance that Bulgaria will be prepared and strong President of the European Union in 2018. We're in front of a historic opportunity. Do it! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u13	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr. Valeri Simeonov for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. [[(The National Representative Valeri Simeonov kisses the hand of the Bulgarian Patriarch with the words:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u14	Dear compatriots, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Your Holiness, Mr. President, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers! The Patriotic front of NFSB and VMRO puts for its highest purpose the selfless and selfless protection of the interests of our Homeland Mother Bulgaria, as well as the multi-suffering but great Bulgarian people! The Patriotic Front is for a healthy, rich and strong nation, for the revival and promotion of the main Bulgarian virtues, love for the motherland, hard work, modesty, honesty, man-loving, freedom! For its own purposes, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front places changes in the economy first in order to exempt small and medium-sized enterprises from the restrictions and unnecessary strict regulations putting them in line with the public official's racketeering. Secondly, the allocation of subsidies in agriculture in support of small farms, the revival of the home processing industry and the return to traditional markets. Creating a long-term national tourism strategy with the promotion of non-traditional forms of cultural, archaeological, ethnographic, rural, medical, balneological and others. Effective absorption of European funds under European funds, clarification of the conditions for applying and official preparation of projects for low-level contractors in different sectors. In the field of energy,.. immediate implementation of an audit and revision of energy under the control of a special committee of the National Assembly with attracted specialists to investigate the huge thefts in the industry, a radical change in the activities of the SEWRC and the regulatory basis for determining energy prices, freezing and lowering the price of electricity for citizens and businesses. Emergency exploration of gas fields in the Black Sea, as well as the country's territory according to the conventional method, as well as the construction of replacement reserve pipelines with neighbouring countries. Stop manipulating society with the thesis that all major energy projects are useful for Bulgaria. Bulgaria only needs projects from which it has economic benefits. In the area of budget and finance: immediate stabilisation of the banking system, investigation of the causes and the guilty of the banking crisis. Prohibition of unilateral change of interest rate by banks. Keeping the flat tax on business and introducing progressive family income tax. Real decentralisation of municipalities as a percentage of tax and concession fees collected to remain in municipal budgets. Reduction of party subsidies as a step-by-step limit the subsidy for large parties to a certain ceiling. Social, demographic policy and health: crossing the practice of motherhood and poverty becoming a lucrative business, stopping the payment of benefits and child benefits for more than two or three children, social benefits being paid only against real labour. Providing decent old age both by stepping up pensions and by binding retirement age to the average life expectancy. Eliminate the monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund cause of sluggish, expensive and ineffective healthcare. Taking urgent measures to break the cartel in pharmaceuticals and lower the cost of medicines, to stimulate the production and supply of generic, cheap medicines at the expense of new increasingly expensive medicines. A complete educational reform, a return of the revival spirit and national self-consciousness in schools and universities. We are introducing a Bulgarian language exam for all children aged six years. In case of poor driving, an accelerated study in preschool classes at the expense of parents; in the absence of funds, public service. Introduction of a gym class every day and study of the discipline "patriotism" in the primary and average course of education. At least a 30% quota for Bulgarian cultural works in all mass media. [[Reply of the interim President Stefan Danailov: "Absolutely! "]] The state to subsidize the popularization of Bulgarian folklore, traditions, customs, festivals and other events. In the field of ecology, we are about introducing draconian measures against eco-breakers, but also stopping the dictatorship of paid pseudo-ecologists. The immediate imposition of a moratorium on the logging of Bulgarian forests and exports of raw wood; the preparation of a National Strategy for the Protection of the Bulgarian Forest. In the area of the judiciary and security the right of the Bulgarian citizen to use weapons to protect his life, health and property in his home. This is the cheapest way for the country to cross mass domestic crime. Police stations should be transferred to subordination to the municipalities, keeping the personnel powers to the Ministry of Interior. An immediate change to the Election Act.. introducing mandatory voting and removing electoral manipulations in Turkey's sections, as well as the mass buying of votes. The right to vote to have only citizens fluent in writing and speak Bulgarian. In the field of national defence, the recruitment service should be restored, as well as the labour forces as a place to acquire qualification and build a sense of responsibility for the nation. To introduce military training into the middle education course. In order to resist external military aggression, the immediate recovery of rockets is necessary at the bases in southern Bulgaria. Emergency completion of the security fence along the entire border with the Republic of Turkey. In the field of foreign policy. Bulgaria's foreign policy to be subject to the beneficial balance for the homeland in favour only and only of the national interest. Our presence in the European Union must be subject first to national interests. Independence, dignity and national sovereignty should be the main goal of the Bulgarian diplomats. Bulgaria must develop a special foreign policy strategy against Bulgarians abroad, as well as foreign citizens with Bulgarian self-consciousness living in Macedonia, Serbia, Turkey, Romania, Ukraine, Moldova, Russia, Albania, Kosovo and others. The patriotic front will seek agreement and synergies with all Bulgarian political forces from the Forty-third National Assembly to limit the influence and removal from the power of the representatives of the disrupting foundations of state ethnic parties. Congratulations! [[Laughter and excitement from DPS.]] Dear colleagues, I wish you hard and useful work for society in the name and salvation of Mother Bulgaria! Bulgaria above all! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u15	I give the floor to Mr. Svetlin Tanchev for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Coalition Party. [[The National Representative Svetlin Tanchev kisses the hand of Patriarch Neofit.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u16	Your Eminence, esteemed Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. President, honourable ministers, your excellences, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour and pleasure to present to you the intentions of the Union of Parties "Bulgaria without Censorship"............................................................ the Union of Free Democrats................................ All of us together decided that our joint parliamentary group should be called the "Bulgarian Center of Democracy" because we find that this responds most to our political views and intentions. I will not hide our ambitions in the Forty-third ordinary National Assembly to represent the interests not only of those 200,000 Bulgarian citizens who supported us, but also the hopes and impressions of many of the non-voting nearly 52% Bulgarian citizens, because none of us has ever participated in the executive power of Bulgaria. In our intentions towards the fate of the forty-third Bulgarian Parliament, we are guided by a simple rule that even the worst peace is better than the best war. Yes, we have significant differences with the majority of political views presented in this Parliament. Moreover, the Bulgarian Center of Democracy was called for public life by the people's dissatisfaction with the way Bulgaria has been ruled over for the past 10 years. There is no way to like you and there is no way to pretend that nothing has happened and that only six months ago the Bulgarians were not on the streets of Bulgaria as they were a year and a half ago. With many of those present we have essential ideological, ethical, and with some of you and aesthetic differences, and they are difficult to reconcile, but we declare that we will do our best to have as long as possible a working parliament and government with care for the people. We will do so with the same determination that we will do our best to dismantle this Parliament if we find that it serves kitter and lobbying interests, such as practice, unfortunately, has been a very honored guest of these historical banks. We believe that we have correctly read what our people have said with their choice of over 40 parties and organisations are represented in this Parliament. Politically, the will of nearly 95% of all Bulgarian citizens has been respected. In this sense, perhaps the forty-third National Assembly is the most representative parliament in the history of Bulgaria, both by virtue of the people's will and God's thought, we are faced, dear colleagues, with a simple challenge to show whether we are worthy of the voter's command. They simply told us: "None of you has a monopoly on power! Neither of you should abuse power, as has often happened! To gather together as many and as different as possible, to solve together the serious problems facing the nation! They simply said to us: "See what is written on your building from above "The Unity makes the power! " This is the vote of the people that obliges us to make some compromises with what distinguishes us. Yes, we are ready to support a cabinet of the broadest possible representation, but we will not forget that we were created precisely by the popular discontent against the rule of those who, under the Constitution and by the people's will, are entitled to make the first attempt to form a government. We will also support the majority's proposal for the President of Parliament, but we declare our firm intention to guide ourselves in our actions with the sole care of the people, not the comfort of governance. Our priorities are the economic and spiritual salvation of the nation. In our election programme, the main focus was the creation of conditions for the creation of new jobs. Despite skepticism, you will be convinced that with nearly 3 million pensioners, more than 2 million immigrants and more than 500,000 fully desocialized Bulgarian citizens, if we do not reveal at least 100,000 jobs per year, we will simply disappear as a nation. We do not forget that an impressive number of miners voted for us and this obliges us to be advocates of a fairer pension system and a country with more care for workers. Colleagues, the oath we have just taken is an oath not just to be MPs. We don't take it as an oath to do everything we can to save an ancient nation that is currently melting in a demographic disaster. There is a population of nearly 40% functional illiterateness and is governed by a thieving elite, which has become a benchmark for bad political practices within the European Union. We believe that our first duty is to tell people the truth about the state of our existence. We believe that each one of us must bear the cross that is about to be worn. In this sense, we will support a future parliamentary majority if it makes a working and transparent cabinet with real access for citizens to its work and decisions. But at the same time we say that we will make your life a living hell if we feel even the slightest trickery or attempt to work in the name of the traditional economic and political oligarchy that has been riding Bulgaria in recent years. We believe that immediately a special parliamentary committee should be set up to tell people the truth about the scandalous destruction of KTB. We must not allow the credit files of this bank to become the new files of the transition something used for racketeering, for dark, behind-the-scenes transactions and issuing political sentences outside the court. People are obliged to know what happened to their money and most of all who lied to their trust because money is made, but trust is very difficult to recover. And the previous parliament ended its life with a record low for this institution authority. We find it necessary to establish a permanent parliamentary committee with 50% participation of civil organisations to assess the practical effectiveness of each legislation in the work of the forty-third Parliament. We will have separate legal committees, but Bulgarian parliamentaryism has always suffered from the lack of a preliminary assessment of the risk and perspectives of the legislative acts, as well as a lack of serious opaqueness of the legislative process. It is in all our interests to make our best efforts in this direction, so that the word may little by little not be a symbol of impudence, deniability and hypocrisy. We find it survivingly important to defend tax preferences for businesses that open new jobs, a high percentage of gross domestic product for education and culture and a zero VAT rate for printing in Bulgarian because the language in which we write in our books has long been in the black book of languages. We believe that the forty-third ordinary national assembly should finally try to invent and create a long-term perspective. We urge you not to succumb to the short-term political accounts of your leaders or centrals. Things are simple. If we do not think seriously about Bulgaria in the future for the next 30-40 years, there will simply be nothing to think about after 30-40 years, because Bulgaria itself will not be there. None of the representatives of our union have ever participated in the executive power before. Once again, I stress this important difference between us and the majority in this House. Sitting with you we realize that we will bear some of the sins that you have accumulated over the past decade. We are aware of this situation and we pay attention to you that we cannot be angry with people for thinking so. The fault lies with those who have corrupted the motto in recent years. That is why we are calling you for less party passions and more good education, for tolerance and care for people who will have to pay the price of past insanity in energy - with their money, in education with the future of their children, and in healthcare with their lives. We call on you to be filled with respect and concern during the extremely difficult days that await the Bulgarian people and to do everything possible to bear much of its burden. In conclusion, I would stress that there is no clear path ahead of us. We will make the way with our steps. It's up to us to stay human this way. Our efforts depend on whether it is short or long this time. We're gonna have a lot of arguments about direction. There are heavy parliamentary battles ahead because we are very different, but let us at least try to leave people with a sense of common walking. Because democracy has never been the answer to the question where are we going? It is the answer to the question How are we doing, how are we making decisions? We, the Parliamentary Group, are determined to go in the directions that I have just stated, and God will be with us because he sees that our thoughts are pure! We hope that you too will walk with God, because as our ancestors do, we trust God to protect Bulgaria, but we must do what we need to do on our own. I wish you to be worthy of the difficult days ahead. Long live Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u17	I give the floor to Mr. Volen Siderov for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Why don't you have a seat? Sit down right now! [[Laughter]] What's that?! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u18	And the right?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u19	Mr. Chairman, before I begin, I would like to remind you of a procedural proposal with which we have already made one request to remove from the Chamber the symbols that are not legitimate. The state crest of the Republic of Bulgaria and the national flag of the Republic of Bulgaria should stand under a Constitution in the plenary. In my opinion, there should also be an Orthodox cross, but that is another matter. But here we have symbols that are not legitimate. While I'm talking, you can ask the Quaestors to simply remove them from the room. Thank you in advance. [[Applause from the "Attacka". Rejoice in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u20	It's a sickle and a hammer!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u21	First, I would like to thank all the Bulgarians who broke the script of these elections. Because the scenario envisioned that GERB would have full comfort and support of obedient parliamentary groups, and that Ataka would not be in parliament so as not to disturb this idyll. Thank you to all Bulgarians who broke this scenario and showed that the Bulgarian people are smart and wise. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u22	That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u23	To the gravediggers of Ataka I give a healthy and unwarranted greeting from our voters and remind them of the old Bulgarian saying: The grave that digs for others, falls into it. As I recall proverbs, I can think of an old one, also from the recent past folk joke: Radio "Erevan" immediately replied: "The Merakli. " Lately, in the last two ten days, we have seen so many measures of power that the logical question immediately arises: can they? Because when you want to, you have to. We've even seen the odds that are offered without wanting them. There were paintings like that. But when you want to, you have to. If a man has erectile dysfunction, then the most beautiful woman won't help him. [[Applause from the "Attacka". Rejoice in the hall.]] It'll just stay with the desire. If political leader and party have program dysfunction and do not have the courage to push the right propagandist, pro-Bulgarian policy, and the most pleasant negotiations, and the most helpful media will not help them. Today, at the Forty-third National Assembly we have 49 parties except for the Ataka. I strongly doubt the ability of these 49 parties because we have already seen them in power. They were all in one form or another in power, state or municipal, and some were in all power, all power. In the last two ten days these 49 parties have deafened our ears with words of national agreement and high responsibility. And I ask: why did they not show high responsibility and national agreement when they were in power? Why didn't they improve the lives of the Bulgarians and make it worse? How can I trust them now that we've already seen them in power?! Many of them have done a lot of damage to Bulgaria and deserve an investigation and a sanction, not a new power. This question, ladies and gentlemen, will come down from this tribune here regularly, every week, every month, like water from a torn dam. That's how it's gonna go down! We'll ask it regularly. We will be back in our corrective function and we will land all the political kites that are now floating in the clouds of the so-called Euro-Atlantic values. I call them.......................... There are Christian values and no others! The battle of the attack is consistent and unwavering. Our pain and care have always been and will be the interests of the humiliated and insulted Bulgarians. And they're a majority right now. They are the overwhelming majority in Bulgaria. A dominant majority is neither bankers nor well-dressed businessmen. They're a minority, they're very few, ladies and gentlemen. The vast majority of the Bulgarian people live badly. And that should be problem number one of all the politicians who rule. We'll make sure that's true. If not, we'll say it! We're already on the move, not just talking. We're done, we've put in the Office forty-three, we're the forty-third parliament, forty-three bills and decisions. They are imported and are already in the Office. [[(Shouting.) Claps by "Attack.")]] They concern the most important issues of the Bulgarian people. Not for the renovation of the houses, not for the Law on secondary education, but for the incomes of the minimum incomes, the minimum pensions, the expulsion of the ERPs from Bulgaria, the monopolies that drink the blood of the Bulgarian people, the return of the gold mining, the gold resources in Bulgarian hands, not as they are now in the hands of a foreign company against a percentage and a half fee, the reduction of the moratorium on the price of electricity we offered in the previous parliament, there is it in the Ministry, the archives are alive, but was rejected by the three other parties then in parliament. Among these decisions is a decision to honor the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire. We have also proposed this and it has been rejected. There is also a solution for building energy projects that are useful for Bulgaria. They are useful and must be done. Now we will see how the highly responsible politicians who have deafened our ears that they are highly responsible will accept or reject these decisions. If they reject them, they will show that they are not highly responsible, but that is the only way they have spoken. If they accept them, I will admit them and say: "Yes, there is evolution in you. Thank you for this. " - All of this, however, is yet to be seen. Our proposals are popular, they are of no use to any bank or oligarchy. They're good for the people. This has been our policy for ten years and now it will not change in the coming years. To the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union, I want to tell them clearly: tell your leaders to immediately stop the idiotic sanctions against Russia because they are killing their own countries. [[Shouting.]] Tell them that your own peoples, ladies and gentlemen ambassadors, will force you to do this, because they will blow down the current leaders of European countries, who are nothing but puppets of American politics. Unfortunately, there are no more leaders of the rank of De Gaulle, of Conrad Adenauer and others who gave direction then to their peoples how sovereign politics were conducted. It is high time for the leadership of the Member States of Europe, of the European Union, to stop the humiliating, vassal policy towards Washington. To start leading a sovereign policy, their own policy, in the interests of their own countries. If they don't, things are bad. Because following American politics, playing the American game today, following Washington's sick ambitions today, means you're dragging us into war. The dignified peoples of the countries of Europe deserve a worthy policy and decent leaders. I am convinced that they will achieve it one day and that day will not be very far away. The current European Union, unfortunately, does not give such a policy, and it must be dismantled and a new union and a new entity must be formed on the basis of genuine democratic principles, above all on the basis of Christian values and on the basis of true popular sovereignty. This is not the case now, and this European Union is not working for the European peoples, but against their interest. Also tell your leaders, ladies and gentlemen ambassadors of the EU member states that we Bulgarians do not want you to drive us into enmity and war with our liberator from Turkish slavery Russia! Twice in the history of the world, you have already made it into alliances against Russia and they have ended in national catastrophes. Tell them the third time we won't allow it. This is our view, and we will stand for it as we know it and we can, and you have made sure that we can. We are not some unprincipled and faceless coalition, but we are an Attack. We will do our people's work in this National Assembly, and during that time we will watch, as we have seen for the past ten years, how they run into the sewers of history all kinds of coalitions and coalitions that appear and disappear. We've seen this, and we'll see it again. However, Ataka will stand above the muddy river of Bulgarian politics as a rock [[crowd cheering, cheering]] because it is the last fortress of the Bulgarian people. This fortress will not fall because if it falls, Bulgaria falls. And God will not allow this to happen because despite all the crap that is being done in our country, God protects Bulgaria. May God's blessing be on the Bulgarian people and on our country Bulgaria! God willing! Amen! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u24	I give the floor to Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin for speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u25	Thank you, Professor! Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Your Holiness, Your Excellencies, Dear Guests, Colleagues, Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative, I would like to begin with a wish to all of us to dispel all the doubts that the Bulgarian people are unable to elect 240 representatives who are competent, honest, conscientious, modest and can achieve a result in the interests of those who have chosen us. I wish everyone a successful job and I think that what brings us together in this room, despite our different constituents, despite their different preferences, is the most important. And this should be the interest of Bulgaria. By the way, when we talk about honesty and transparency, I would like to boast that the alternative to Bulgarian revival was perhaps the first parliamentary group to adopt its own Code of Ethics, which we will offer to all MPs in this Parliament. All of us, honourable Members, are coming out of very difficult elections, even twice difficult elections, because recently there were also European elections. We do not have any different impressions about what is happening in Bulgaria. We see that people resent because of a weak state, weak institutions, irresponsibility, political unemployment, misery, lack of perspective. And the fifty percent record-breaking number of non-votes in these elections shows exactly this.. lack of confidence. The results of these elections show not only a lack of confidence in the political parties that have ruled over the past few years, but a lack of confidence in politicians at all. I think this should be the biggest lesson we're taking from this election. This should be precisely the purpose of this National Assembly to change the opinion of the people that politics in Bulgaria does not mean that politicians in Bulgaria are grantors who defend their own interests. It's up to us to change that opinion of people. What are we gonna offer them? I am listening to the speeches of the chairmen of parliamentary groups, and I must tell you that in some of them I am hopeful. All those who are talking precisely about the need to look at at at least today, at least in the coming weeks, where the national interest is. Yes, the people of us will probably not be surprised if they hear confrontation, opposition, insults, if they hear the thickness, if they see everyone looking for guilt outside of themselves and justify that it is not up to him the condition in which Bulgaria is in. That's the old one. We're not gonna surprise anyone with this. Is there anything else we can offer? Can we, for the first time in the 25-year history of democratic Bulgaria, offer a skill to politicians to understand where the national interest is and at least a few points to stand next to each other or will we fail? By the way, I would like to congratulate both Mr. Borisov and GERB on the dialogue they imposed in the beginning after these elections. But from now on, it depends on how far this dialogue leads. Everyone has party interests, everyone is chosen by different voters, each of us, meeting with voters, with people, hear different recommendations about what should happen in Bulgaria. However, I think there are a few undisputed things and they revolve around the need for national agreement on at least a few subjects. I ask myself: what can the Bulgarian nation unite today? Not just words, not just fairy tales, not just good election slogans. In practice, what are these topics and those circumstances that can put us in a row so that we can protect our interests? An external threat? We see that we are living in an increasingly troubled region. We see the advance of Islamic fundamentalism and I expect the Bulgarian Muslims to be in the forefront of opposition. We see the changing European Union in which Bulgaria must participate with a clear and protective Bulgarian position. Or don't we see that there are internal threats, as well, the threats to the banking system, the budget, the income? I recently met with an ambassador in Sofia, who said: "For two years there have been four governments in Bulgaria. That's right, except it's nice when we hear it from the outside. Where's the stability? Where's the policy sequence? And we know that the administration also stops working when changes are coming. I think today those who draw dividing lines should bear responsibility in the coming months. Today we need national agreement. Not by uniting parties behind the same ideology, but by national agreement with all the differences we have and which our parties have. National agreement does not mean support for any party program. It means that each party and its voters will be recognized by some national priorities. Can we do this thing? Can we write on a white sheet of paper the few priorities that we will all protect? This will show a different style, and this will show these 50% and more unspoken that it is good for them to go out next time and vote. We have heard calls from some colleagues that it is time for right-wing rule. By the way, Mr. Mestan came out, he said: But what do you hear about all the elections before that? Here, let us remember who said what in this room years ago and what he said today. Our version, what do we suggest, with the awareness that ABB is a small parliamentary group? National consent should be about several issues that are not party issues: - Strong state and institutions. - Stop party appointments, shake institutions. - Justice and effective justice and changes in the judiciary to ensure it. There's no left and right here. It's a good code of choice. Not these torments which, for two previous parliaments, we see with the electoral legislation that brought the people from Parliament's first day here, in front of our doors. Demographic policy. We include education, income, health care. - Stabilization of national security and military and economic aspects. - Balanced regional development. - Strengthening Bulgarian national identity, Bulgarian science and culture. Here are topics that are important and that are not party issues. I am sure that if there is a good wish this Parliament can produce a good result. On a successful path, ladies and gentlemen, we are going with a national team. I am against the disappearance of the differences between parties, but I am also against the parties self-sustaining on every subject, on every subject, on the back of citizens to oppose each other. My call, on behalf of the entire ABB Parliamentary Group, is to seek consent and seek what Bulgarian voters expect of us. Good job, one more time! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, at its first meeting, the newly elected National Assembly must elect a President and Vice-Presidents. We proceed to the election of the President of the Forty-third National Assembly. Draft for a decision to adopt procedural rules for the election of President of the Forty-third National Assembly. You've already been dealt the project. Please, on behalf of the importers, Mr. Krasimir Velchev to read it to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u27	Mr. President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I present to you a draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-third National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria R-E-S-E: It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-third National Assembly as follows: 1. Candidates for the President of the National Assembly may be raised by the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for independent participation in the elections on 5 October 2014 and by MPs. 2. The vote is clearly also in alphabetical order of the proposed candidates. It shall be carried out by means of a computerised voting system. 3. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs has been elected. If, in the first vote, none of the candidates receives the necessary majority, a second vote shall take place, involving the two candidates who received the most votes. The candidate who received more votes in the second vote was elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Honourable Members, you have the floor for opinions on the rules of procedure for the election of President of the Forty-third National Assembly. I see there are no willing ones. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we vote on the draft Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 227 MPs: for 227, against and abstention there is no. Under the rules of procedure adopted just now, I give the floor for a proposal for candidates for President of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u29	Your Holiness, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President and everyone else. [[Happy tidings.]] Just save everybody some time. You know, yesterday I made a proposal to Mr. Mikov, as chairman of the second largest party, for President of Parliament. He politely refused me, as this is their party's position. I did it with a clear mind to share at least in Parliament's responsibility and not for a coalition. Thanks for coming, and we agreed. Therefore today, on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, I propose Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska, born on 24 May 1958 in the village of Draganovo, Lovech, lives in the town of Pleven. She has graduated from Sofia University at Kliment Ohridski, University of Law. He works as a lawyer, is listed in the Bar Association in the town of Pleven, whose member is currently also a member. He is Chairman of the Forty-first National Assembly, MP at the Forty-second National Assembly and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u30	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any other proposals for the President of the National Assembly from other parliamentary groups and so on? I won't. Thank you. Abort... [[BSP LB.]] I'm opening the debate. What a debate, brother... [[Laughter]] The word is Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, Your Holiness, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group (BSP) will support the proposal made by the Parliamentary Group of the Party GERB. [[Applause from GERB.]] We will support it not only because of the results of the elections, no doubt which deserve respect and which give the party GERB reason to broadcast a candidate for President of the National Assembly and to expect this candidacy to be elected accordingly. We will support Mrs. Tsacheva's candidacy not only because of her personal qualities, experience, skills, which, although often criticised, contested, at least I do not remember anyone denying it. Certainly, the experience gained... and politically, makes this application suitable for the rather complex, delicate, diverse political situation, including as an atmosphere in the forty-third parliament. The Parliamentary Group will support this candidacy as an understanding of the need for a sign of new relations in the forty-third Parliament, such as an understanding of the need, including expected and sought by Bulgarian citizens, of new political and parliamentary behaviour. Behavior that leaves the territory of hostility and hatred, behavior that does not exclude opposition and differences, but does not include first-hand aggression and combat. For a long time, both parliament and the street were an arena of clashes, of battle. We understand that we need to leave this arena and take the path of progress, modernization of Bulgaria and the perspective for Bulgarian citizens. It's up to you, Mrs. Tsacheva, if you can justify our trust. [[Applause from BSP LB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u32	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to debate? I won't. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the candidacy of Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva as President of the Forty-third National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 232 MPs: 219, against 12, abstention 1. [[World and long applause by GERB.]] Dear colleagues, there will be time to applaud the dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Allow me anyway...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u33	For a negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u34	Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u35	Thank you. Your Holiness, dear colleagues! On how to vote for President you know that it depends and is displayed, and you can actually see what the configuration will be for the next management. We have now clearly seen that 7 parliamentary groups in this House voted for Mrs. Tsacheva's candidacy, raised by GERB. Seven! We at the attack voted against. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And let me tell you why we voted against. Colleagues from BSP, remember 2012, when I think Mrs. Dobreva was, who came out of this tribune, asked Mrs. Tsacheva, let's read 70 years of the death of the great poet Vaptsarov. No, we can't honor that. Why? It was not nice to turn Parliament into a ritual hall, your words. We of Ataka remember this. We remember going out here and offering this hall to stand up, honor the memory of Angel Petrov, the boy who died in Katunica. Overruled again. We proposed here to honor the memory of these victims, who gave Bulgaria from the bombings of the United States above us, Bulgarians. You turned that down again. We should all remember that when Mrs. Tsacheva was president, this National Assembly bought and split parliamentary groups under your eyes and you knew perfectly well what was happening that MEPs were being bought per kilogram. You knew that! But you didn't do anything about it. The Prime Minister then insulted the MPs, Mrs. Tsacheva, you remember this. Come on, tell me, how can you not vote against? How can you not vote against?! And now here everyone applauds at this choice. Great! However, it will be us at the Ataka who will ensure that what you have shown as wrong will happen again in this House. [[GERB's line.]] Well, don't tell me it's enough! That's what I had to tell you, Mrs. Tsacheva. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u36	[[Getting straight.]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me, before I give up this serious place, to express my personal gratitude to all of you! Today, for years my ears had not heard so politically culturally, benevolently, to have these conversations! Thank you, because this is one of the first steps towards what we are all talking about - restoring our constituents' trust in us who are here! I hope good things happen to you, dear friends and my dear compatriots! I desire it from the heart! To Mrs. Tsacheva, she's, as you know, a big fan of mine. [[Laughter]] I wish from the heart that she be alive and well, that she guide us wisely, kindheartedly and femininely! Good luck in your work! Thank you. [[Lowered applause from all parliamentary groups without the attack.]] [[The President Tsetska Tsacheva kisses the hand of Patriarch Neofit and shakes hands with the MP Stefan Danailov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u37	Dear Mr. President, Your Holiness, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, representatives of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Ombudsman, honourable fellow chairmen of ordinary assembly, your excellences, honourable Members of the European Parliament, dear colleagues! Thank you for voting my high trust in being elected President of the Forty-third National Assembly. In my experience, being first among equals is an awkward task. Because the President must skillfully balance, but also courageously guide, coordinate, but also initiate and, above all, the first among the equal must make efforts to bring together positions, however difficult, when positions are irreconcilable, especially now after the early parliamentary elections. The vote of the Bulgarian people on 5 October 2014 ordered in the Forty-third ordinary National Assembly parliamentary representation to be eight political forces. The good thing is that nearly 95% of the Bulgarian citizens voted are parliamentary represented in the Chamber of the Forty-third National Assembly, the bad news is that more than half of our compatriots did not exercise their right to vote, refused to vote. With this result, the voters gave us a few lessons. First lesson, the lesson of humility. To acknowledge the truth about our mistakes and omissions and to realize that we are only representatives of the sovereign, that none of us, in whatever position we are, is and cannot be greater than our people. Therefore, an hour should rather start quickly and in the interests of the future, not according to the interests of the konncture to solve the Chamber of Problems that accumulated during the period when we fought our small or larger political battles. Second lesson, the lesson of reconciliation. The political battle is part of democracy, but the political wars of recent years have crossed the limits of reason. They sharpened not only interparty relations in the last Chambers of the National Assembly, but heated public tensions to the limit. We've come to the point of putting a physical wall against the sovereign. The fence around the Bulgarian Parliament should never appear again. The third lesson is the lesson of unity. More than once in this tribune, I have said that with only unity we can achieve the rise and I will not tire of repeating it. Unity, colleagues, is not just a word, it does not exclude the differences inherent in democracy, unity is consent to the path we are going. Unity is that high confidence that we can only walk the road together.. all professions, all layers, all ethnicities, young and old, all Bulgarians. We can do that if we don't build walls of division here, inside the parliament. The Unity makes power is the symbol of this building, let us not forget it for a moment. The fourth lesson is the lesson of responsibility. Today, humble and, hopefully, reconciled, convinced of the need for unity, we must take responsibility for today and tomorrow's day for our people. Let's forget about our personal and party close interests, looking for and finding here in this room, the best legislative solutions for the people who sent us here. As President of the Forty- Third National Assembly, I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly to call on you: let us learn these lessons and let us show that we can be at the height of expectations to us, because, let us say it honestly and openly, we have no other useful move. Heavy reality requires urgent legislative measures from us. First of all, we are obliged to broadcast government, executive power of Bulgaria. The worrying demographic picture we know everyone, the budget hole in the treasury we know everyone, the CCB case, the collapse in energy, the high levels of unemployment, and all of us who are here today are adamant that national wealth should be collected and not spilled out that the right to personal initiative and entrepreneurship should be confirmed and supported that our children deserve better education and we all deserve better health care. Last but not least, honourable Members, we must keep an eye on the complex world outside Bulgaria and economically and politically. The difficulties facing democratic processes, strengthening nationalist tendencies, international terrorism, yes, these are problems that will be waiting for solutions in this House as well. In this complex and constantly moving world, we have our support, our friends, our partners, these are the countries of the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, strengthening our membership in these organisations, our active participation in their work is a pledge for the future of our country. My fellow Members, I am aware of my responsibility in order for all this to happen. In my face, you have a predictable chairman of the forty-third National Assembly. I will continue to develop the good initiatives of my predecessors, I will continue the line of transparency and openness of the National Assembly, of closeness to civil society. I assure you that I will not spare strength, I believe that I will rely on experience, on the dialogue tone, on honest and open debate by each and every one of you. Once again, thank you for your trust. [[Applause. The Patriarch is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u38	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second part of our plenary sitting today: SELECTION OF OBSERVERS OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING ACCORDING TO ARTICLE 4. 76, AL. 3 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. You are given the procedural proposals that the contact group with representatives of all parliamentary parties approved. I ask one of the importers to present the project. Mr. Velchev, you have this task again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to you: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-third National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-third National Assembly as follows: 1. The National Assembly elects eight vice-presidents on one of each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for independent participation in the elections on 5 October 2014. 2. Each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for Self-Participation in the elections on 5 October 2014 raises a candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. 3. The vote is obvious and anbloc. It shall be carried out through the computerised voting system. 4. The proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents were elected when they received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. The debate is open. Are there any proposals on the draft decision on procedural rules for the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly presented to you? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I'm voting on the draft decision. Vote 226 MPs: for 226, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. According to the decision we have just adopted, according to the size of the groups, one representative from each political force should be nominated as Vice-President of the Forty-third National Assembly. Mr. Borisov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u41	Mr. President! Madam President, congratulations! Dimitar Borisov Glavchev was born in the town of Veliko Tarnovo. Sofia on 15 August 1963 In the Forty-first National Assembly she was Chairman of the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Master of International Economic Relations, Master of Accounting and Control at the UNWE, graduated accountant expert and registered auditor from the Institute of Graduated Accountants. He speaks Russian and English. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u42	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Mikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Let me first congratulate you on your choice and wish you well! Members of the National Assembly under your authority to hold a calm and fruitful meeting. And, of course, a little mood in the gym. [[(Radio.) (Applause)]] I would like to propose on behalf of the BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, whom you all know. Just a few words for the record. Mr. Stoilov is associate professor, doctor of law, in the Department of Theory and History of State and Law, Vice-President of the Bulgarian Association of Philosophy of Law and Social Philosophy. National Representative and Secretary of the Constitutional Commission in the elaboration of the Constitution in the Seventh Grand National Assembly, participated in many parliaments. In the Fortyth National Assembly, he was Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, in the Forty-second National Assembly, in the Committee on Foreign Policy. He is the head of our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and Vice-President of the PACE. Languages, too, family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u45	Dear Mr. President, dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, dear Madam President, dear guests! Firstly, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I would like to congratulate Mrs Tsacheva with the choice. Mrs. Tsacheva, we wish you much health, wise leadership, and such decisions. And, of course, many, many successes! Let not only this National Assembly, but also the people who have chosen us, be with more optimistic attitudes under your leadership of this National Assembly. [[National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev congratulates President Tsetska Tsacheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, my proposal will not surprise anyone. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Aliosman Imamov. He was born in 1953, family. There is impressive political activity, namely: MP in the Thirty-nineth, in the Fortyth, in the Forty-first and in the last Forty-second edition of the National Assembly. Then he was once again Vice-President of the National Assembly. There is also the same impressive professional activity, namely he is a lecturer and is involved in scientific activities at the UNWE, New Bulgarian University and Southwestern University. He is an associate professor at the Department of Statistics and Iconometry at the UNWE in Sofia. He speaks English and Russian. He's the perfect one, according to us, Mrs. Tsacheva's replacement. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u48	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. On behalf of the Reformation Bloc, Mrs. Kuneva. [[National Representative Meglena Kuneva congratulates President Tsetska Tsacheva for the election.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u49	Good luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Reformation Block, we propose for Vice-President Ivan Kirilov Ivanov. He was born in 1969 in Veliko Tarnovo and was elected by 4.Multi-manandaten region "Veliko Tarnovo." He's a social and clinical psychologist. He graduated from Sofia University, specialized in political management, was a lecturer at New Bulgarian University and at Sofia University, non-party, married, father of two daughters.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u52	Thank you. On behalf of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Simeonov. [[The National Representative Valeri Simeonov congratulates President Tsetska Tsacheva for the election.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u53	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u55	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, I propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov. [[SCREAMS: Bravo, bravo!]] Born 1965, graduated from Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, PhD in International Law and International Relations. He speaks German and Russian, does not speak Turkish. [[Radio.]] Former member of the Thirty-eighth and Fortyth National Assembly, family, president of one of the greatest and most worthy patriotic organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u56	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u57	Dear Mr. President! Madam President, please accept the congratulations of our parliamentary group on your election as President! We can only wish you to be the President of a working National Assembly something that has not always happened. We are convinced that under your leadership this is possible. Let me now, on behalf of our parliamentary group, propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly the candidacy of the MP Yavor Haytov. Mr. Haytov was born in 1969 in Sofia. Alumni of the Law Faculty of Sofia University, with quite a long experience in the justice and justice system, as an investigator, as part of the Ministry of Interior, later a lawyer at the Sofia Bar Association. I can say a lot more about him, but I don't think that's necessary. Mr. Haytov is married with two children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. I beg your pardon for the order I've made wrong. Now he has the floor of Mr. Siderov on behalf of Ataka Party to make his proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Dangowska. Let me remind you again that this symbol here with the blue color is illegal. I beg you very much to invite the Quaestors to carry him out because you are breaking the law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka, I propose Yavor Notev as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Yavor Notev was born in 1957 in Sofia. He graduated from Law at Sofia University. A long-standing lawyer, respected Vice-President of the Law Commission in the Forty-fourth and Second National Assembly, you know him well. But, Mrs. Dangowska, do not be deceived by his kindness and upbringing. He stands up for principles when he has to. I hope that working with him will make you a little more principled than in the previous National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u60	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the Coalition, Alternative for Bulgarian Revival.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Congratulations on your choice! Good luck in this job!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u63	The proposal of the ABB Parliamentary Group for Vice-President of Parliament is for Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva. Mrs. Yanakieva was a Member of Parliament at the Fortyth National Assembly, five mandates mayor, of which two mandates Pernik, a very experienced person. She was Vice-President of our delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the management of the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria................................................................................................................ Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the proposals made? I can't see. Debates closed. Mr. Dimitar Glauchev, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, Mr. Aliosman Imamov, Mr. Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Mr. Yavor Haytov, Mr. Yavor Notev and Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva. Please vote. Vote 235 MPs: for 235, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. [[Applause.]] Congratulations to fellow vice-presidents! Due to the architecture of the plenary, it is not possible for eight vice-presidents to take up seats at the same time. In the contact group, when we specified this detail of today's meeting, we decided that in the new Rules of Organization and Activity of the Forty-third National Assembly this will be decided by the way in which they will participate and chair in plenary meetings the Vice-Presidents. Moving on to the next point: ACCEPTANCE OF A DECISION TO TEMPORARYLY APPLICATION THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE ACTION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING. You know that there is a period of time in which the previous Rules of Procedure act as a tradition until the time of the establishment of appropriate Rules of the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr. Velchev as one of his importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! And I wish to congratulate the so-founded leadership of the National Assembly and wish them good luck! I'd like to propose to you a project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the implementation of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (prom., SG No. 53, 2013; amend. and Dop., No. 62, No. 97 from 2013) The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Forty-third National Assembly shall carry out its work under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (prom., SG No. 53/2013, amend. and Dop., No. 62, No. 97 from 2013) until the adoption of its rules, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 2. The decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u66	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. I'm opening the debate on the proposed draft decision. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the project presented to you for a decision on the provisional application of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Vote 218 MPs: 216, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We should move on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO SELECT THE TEMPORARY SECRETARIES OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I can explain why we are acting under these Rules. The Contact Group has prepared a draft decision, representing all political forces. Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention the next Project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? for the election of temporary secretaries at the 40th and Third National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He elected eight temporary secretaries of the National Assembly on one of each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for independent participation in the elections on 5 October 2014. 2. He elects as temporary secretaries of the Forty-third National Assembly...... the proposed names of each parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u68	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Before giving the floor for speeches and debates on the proposed draft decision, let us thank the President of the Republic Mr. Plevneliev for his participation in the inaugural meeting of the Forty-third National Assembly, as we have already moved on to the actual, business part of our work. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause. President Plevneliev congratulated the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsacheva and said goodbye.]] Now you have the floor for opinions on the draft decision on the election of temporary secretaries. No one wants to, the debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 217 MPs: for 217, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. You have the floor for applications from every political force. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposal is for Mr. Alexander Nenkov. And in the previous National Assembly he was the secretary of our parliamentary group, so there is no point in presenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u70	Thank you. On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u71	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. I propose for temporary parliamentary secretary Georgi Turnovalyski. Let me also make a proposal on the next item to come, so that I do not go out again with regard to the agreed and contact group of the Rules of Procedure. You can offer this to the other parliamentary groups. I propose Mrs. Maya Manolova, Mr. Philip Popov and Mr. Chavdar Georgiev as members of the Temporary Rules Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u72	On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose for Parliamentary Secretary Ayhan Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u74	Thank you. On behalf of the Reformation Bloc, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u75	For temporary parliamentary secretary we propose Dimitar Andreev Delchev. He was born in 1989, a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u76	On behalf of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u77	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, I propose as Parliamentary Secretary Mr. Julian Angelov. For the Commission of the Rules I propose Mr. Christian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u78	Mr. Rumen Yonchev from the group of the Bulgarian Center of Democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u79	Madam President, I am pleased that you have accepted our presence in this House. On behalf of our group, I propose for temporary parliamentary secretary the National Representative Chavdar Peychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u80	Thank you. A written proposal has been made by the party "Attack". Mr. Siderov, shall I announce it, or shall you do it? Mrs. Kalina Balabanova is proposed as secretary on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. And from the ABB group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u81	Dear Madam President, our proposal for a parliamentary secretary from the ABB group is for the MP Ivan Penkov Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u82	There are 8 proposals for temporary secretaries of the National Assembly as follows: Mr. Alexander Nenkov, Mr. Georgi Turnovaliski, Mr. Ayhan Etem, Mr. Dimitar Delchev, Mr. Julian Angelov, Mr. Chavdar Peychev, Mrs. Kalina Balabanov and Mr. Ivan Penkov Ivanov. Is there anyone who would like to take an attitude? No. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 219 MPs: for 219, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO SELECT A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR WORKING THE PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. On it, some of the political forces have already presented their nominations. On behalf of the importers, I give the floor to Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for the Temporary Committee of the Political Party GERB: for Chairman "Krasimir Tsipov," for Members "Altimir Adamov," Veselin Vuchkov, Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova, Dimitar Lazarov and Tsveta Karayancheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Before that, allow me to introduce you to the draft decision on the election of a Temporary Commission for the elaboration of a draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He established a committee for the preparation of a draft of the Rules for the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly in a composition of 20 Members of the National Assembly, of which: from the Parliamentary Group of GERB. 7 Members of Parliament, from the Bulgarian People's Republic, from the Bulgarian National Assembly, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 3 Members of the Parliamentary Group of GERB 2 Members of the National Assembly, from the Patriotic Front (NFSB and VMRO) 2 Members of the National Assembly, from the Coalition of the parties.................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 3. The Commission shall be elected for a period of three weeks. There have been proposals from three political forces from the stands. Attack party has in writing proposed Mr. Yavor Notev's candidacy as a member of the committee. Of the other political forces, come in, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u85	Thank you, Madam President. We propose Yavor Haytov as a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u86	From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u87	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose the following three names for members of the committee: Mr. Aliosman Imamov, Mr. Hamid Hamid and Mr. Chetin Kazak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u88	On behalf of the Reformation Bloc, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u89	Two people on behalf of the Reformation Block: Dimitar Delchev and Petar Vladislavov Slavov, born 1975, Lawyer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u90	Thank you. We said, "Attack." Here you go, Mr. Kalfin. [[Heckling]] On behalf of the Patriotic Front, they came in writing...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u91	Madam President, the proposal of the ABB Parliamentary Group is for the MP Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-10-27.u92	Thank you. 20 applications have been made as much as the draft committee's decision. Since we did not first vote on the draft decision itself, we rushed to nominate the candidates, I open a joint debate on the draft decision and on the personal applications made. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I put to the vote the draft decision on the election of the Temporary Commission for the elaboration of the Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as I introduced you to it and to the proposals made by the parliamentary groups, including personally for Chairman in the face of Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. Voting mode. Vote 218 MPs: for 217, against none, abstention 1. The Temporary Commission for Draft Rules has been adopted. Coming up next: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application was received from Mr. Hristo Ivanov Beloev, saying: By decision No 1317-NS of 10 October 2014 of the CEC, I was appointed as the elected MP in the Forty-third National Assembly. I will not take an oath as a Member of the National Assembly, and I wish my authority as a Member of the National Assembly to be terminated. I offer to your attention a draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Hristo Ivanov Beloev as a Member of Parliament from 19.Multimate election district of Rusenski. There are no comments, no opinions. Voting mode. Vote 204 MPs: for 199, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Several announcements on the establishment of parliamentary groups. The National Assembly has received the following applications on behalf of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Political Party GERB: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 12 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were held a general meeting of the MPs elected from multi-manded electoral districts with registration of the Political Party GERB at the parliamentary elections held on 5 October 2014. The meeting of the elected on 27 October 2014 decided: He formed a parliamentary group of MPs elected with the registration of PP GERB in the parliamentary elections held on 5 October 2014. The name of the parliamentary group is: the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. The leadership of the parliamentary group is composed of: Chairman Boyko Metodiev Borisov, Vice-Presidents Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev, Secretary Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva. A copy of the decision of the signature group of its members is attached. According to the order of application by the political forces, by Coalition "Patriotic Front" "NFSB and VMRO": ? RESPONSIBILITY? of the Members of the National Assembly elected in the Forty-third National Assembly by Coalition "Patriotic Front" "NFSB and VMRO" for the establishment of a parliamentary group On 26 October 2014, the MPs of the coalition decided: They are setting up a parliamentary group of 19 MPs with the name: "Patriotic Front." They elect the leadership of the parliamentary group in the composition: Chairman . Valeri Simeonov, Vice-Presidents Valentin Kasabov, Iskren Veselinov and Polina Karastoyanova, Secretary of the group Julian Angelov. They propose on behalf of the parliamentary group, this is already a fact, for Vice-President Krasimir Karakachanov. Parliament's management shall be directed to carry out the necessary legal and factual actions to register the parliamentary group in the National Assembly. On 25 October 2014 a meeting of the MPs elected in the elections held on 5 October 2014 with the lists of the Party Ataka, which decided: on the basis of art. Art. 12 and Art. 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to form a parliamentary group called the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. During the same meeting the parliamentary group elected the following leadership: Chairman Volen Nikolov Siderov, Vice-Presidents Desislav Slavov Chukolov and Stanislav Todorov Stanilov. The composition of the parliamentary group is written with the signatures of its members. Next at the Office is the application of the Reformation Block, where it says: Today, October 17, 2014 we, the MPs of the Forty-third National Assembly, elected by Coalition of parties................................................................................................................................................................. DECISION: We are setting up a parliamentary group of Coalition from parties in the Forty-third National Assembly. There are more decisions here... And the minutes of the General Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of 26 October 2014: In the presence of the members of the parliamentary group, the following is adopted on the agenda. DECISION: He elected two co-chairs of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block as follows: Meglena Kuneva and Radan Kanev. At the next point of the decision of this Protocol were elected four Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, as follows: Borislav Velikov, Borislav Milanov, Korman Ismailov and Nikolay Nenchev. Dimitar Delchev has been elected Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, who has been proposed and has already been elected Secretary of the National Assembly. There are other decisions here that are beyond those which are subject to notification under this order. The next time a request for a parliamentary group is on behalf of Coalition ABC "Alternative for Bulgarian Revival." It says that on October 27, 2014 the MPs of Coalition ABB. "Alternative for Bulgarian Revival" have held a general meeting with the following decisions: "1." They form a parliamentary group of the MPs elected with the list of the Coalition ABB. "Alternative for the Bulgarian Revival" at the elections held on 5 October 2014 for MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly. The name of the parliamentary group is the ABB Parliamentary Group. The leadership of the parliamentary group is composed: Chairman Ivaylo Georgiev Kalfin; Vice-Presidents Borislav Mihailov Borisov, Miho Dimitrov Mihov; Treasurer Ivan Slavov. The President shall be directed to carry out the necessary legal and factual steps for registration in the register of the National Assembly. Following the notification by the Party Movement for Rights and Freedoms: Today, 27 October 2014, a meeting of the MPs from the Political Party Movement for Rights and Freedoms with the following agenda and adopted decisions was held: He chose the leadership of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in composition: Chairman of the group.. Mr. Lutvi Ahmed Mestan; Vice-Presidents... Tooncher Mehmed Kardzhaliev, Ferrihan Iliyazova Ahmedova, Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov. As Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the group has chosen Mr. Chetin Hussein Kazak. The proposal from BSP left coalition... [[Noise and lines.]] Left Bulgaria, excuse me. Decision of 21 October 2014: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 41, p. 2 of the Statute of BSP and Section III of the Treaty of Coalition BSP left Bulgaria the General Assembly of Members of the National Assembly R-E-S-E: He formed a parliamentary group of MPs, elected with the list of Coalition of parties BSP left Bulgaria on 5 October 2014 at the elections for the forty-third National Assembly. The name of the parliamentary group is BSP left Bulgaria. ) (a.k.a. 2 of the decision: elects Mr. Mihail Raykov as Chairman of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Angel Petrov Naydenov, Mr. Atanas Todorov Merdjanov and Mrs. Cornelia Petrova Ninova, as well as three secretaries of the group: Mr. Zhelyu Ivanov Boychev, Mr. Kristian Ivanov Vigenin and Mr. Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev. A list of the signatures of the group is attached. A proposal from the Decision for the formation of a Parliamentary Group has been received. Today, October 27, 2014, a meeting of the MPs from the Parliamentary Group was held, where the following decisions were taken: The management of the parliamentary group called the Bulgarian Center of Democracy is in the following composition: Chairman Mr. Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev; Vice-Presidents Kancho Yanev Filipov and Rumen Marinov Yonchev; Secretary Stefan Georgiev Kenov. I think all the parliamentary groups have declared their formation in the Court of Justice. In due order, it has been announced in plenary, and we are going towards the conclusion of today's plenary session. Before that, two messages: At the end of the meeting, I invite all MPs to take a general picture of the southern entrance and a glass of champagne. The next regular plenary session is on Wednesday, 29 October 2014, at 9.00 p.m., with an agenda to be formed under the rules of the acting temporary, to date, the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the 40th and Second National Assembly with members and participants in it: Vice-Presidents and Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups on Wednesday, 29 October 2014, 8.30 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[(Ringing. (Applause)]]
