ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members, before we proceed to our legislative programme for today, allow me to make the following address. Today, the world marks 25 years since the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child by the UN General Assembly. There is no doubt that this is a remarkable event to which we, as MPs, are empathetic and engaged. I will only recall that the Convention has been ratified by 194 countries and is the fastest and most widely accepted international treaty in the history of mankind. It is well known that the Republic of Bulgaria ratified the Convention by a decision of the Grand National Assembly of 11 April 1991, which together with the other countries undertook to respect and ensure all rights of each child. Among them, the right to life and development, the right to protection, access to health and education, freedom to express opinions, freedom from violence and exploitation. Today we are obliged to note that the Convention has also contributed to the achievement of remarkable progress for millions of children around the world and we are pleased to note that the Bulgarian Parliament is working consistently to synchronise national legislation with the Convention. Among the achievements of our country is the deinstitutionalization of care for children, which has led to a reduction in the share of children raised in institutions by 40% in the last 10 years. However, our children are still expecting new solutions from us as legislators, as more than three thousand live in institutions, 21 thousand children have never crossed the school threshold or left school at an early stage, and many Bulgarian children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Let us confirm together on the day we mark 25 years of the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the Bulgarian Parliament faces the challenge and the responsibility to adopt laws and to make the necessary legislative changes that will permanently guarantee the protection of children at risk, access to quality education and health care, access to justice, support for families and guarantee equal opportunities for the development of all Bulgarian children. The National Assembly in the coming days is also hosting a photo exhibition of Unicef "Children's rights have a person and history" which I believe will cause interest among all MPs. Thank you for your attention. We move on to our business work, point 6 of our program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATE OWNITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There has been a report by the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Lazarov, please present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act, No 402-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2014. At its meeting held on 13 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act, No 402-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November. This appropriation The meeting was attended by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of Staff of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Lazarina Stoichkova, Advisor in the Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, Director of the Public Procurement and Legal Service Directorate in the Office of the Road Infrastructure. The bill was presented by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. The proposed amendments cover provisions relating to the conduct of the property expropriation procedure. These amendments aim to speed up the process of building significant national sites and sites of paramount importance, as well as the timely absorption of funds from European Union funds without violating property owners' rights. The proposed amendments cover not only the State Property Act, but the Transitional and Final Provisions also concern the Municipal Property Act. The first group of amendments shall provide in cases where the address of the person is not known or is not found at the current or permanent address of the person, the communication of the act of expropriation of property for a state or municipal need of the person concerned to take place in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 61, para. 3 of the Administrative Procedure Code, respectively by the investor of the site, the district governor, the mayor of the municipality. The second group of changes relate to the moment when the property is considered alienated. It is proposed that the act of the Council of Ministers, respectively, of the governor of the district, should enter into force when it is not appealed and that the monetary compensation is transferred to the account of the entitled persons, and if it is not indicated at the account of the governor of the district. In the event of an appeal, the alienation act shall enter into force and the property shall be deemed alienated after the transfer of the monetary compensation on the basis of a judgment of the court. The third group of amendments concerns the possibility that, in the event of prior execution on a property subject to alienation, the investor may enter into possession of the property before the estrangement act enters into force. Prerequisites in which the investor's contribution to the property is explicitly listed for a detailed development plan for the establishment of a national site has been translated into the compensation provided for in the act for the rightful person and for the property not to constitute only a dwelling. Rules are laid down for the conduct of a vessel in possession of the property, as well as mechanisms for the protection of property owners' rights that are alienated. Analog amendments are also proposed in the Municipal Property Act regarding the possibility for the investor to enter into possession of the property before the alienation act enters into force. Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Mr. Philip Popov, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Mr. Daniel Kirilov, Mrs. Desislava Atanasova, Mr. Petar Slavov, Mr. Svilen Ivanov, Mr. Dimitar Lazarov took part in the discussion. Mrs. Evgenia Kamenova, representative of the Initiative Committee of the Owners, took part in the discussion. During the discussion Mr. Dimitrov expressed his opinion that the bill should have a national scope, but pointed out that he would support the proposed amendments at first reading in order to quickly absorb the funds from the EU funds and provide jobs. Mr. Popov agreed with the objectives of the bill, but stressed that it thus proposed does not comply with Constitutional Court Decision No 6 of 2013 as regards the proposed way of communicating the estrangement acts, as well as with regard to the preliminary implementation of the estrangement act. In this regard, Mrs. Maya Manolova raised a question about the moment when the estrangement procedure in the preliminary implementation is completed and how equal compensation will be guaranteed. Mrs. Stoichkova explained that in order to balance the legality and the appropriateness it is provided for at the stage of alienation that the investor can enter the property without limiting the rights of the owners. In addition, the compensation will be guaranteed even in advance. Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov added that it is explicitly provided that the investor can transfer to the county governor's account and an amount in the act of alienation as compensation to serve as a guarantee for the payment of an increase in compensation by the court. Mr. Slavov asked the representatives of the importer to confirm that the proposed amendments comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and do not contradict it. Mr. Kirilov explained that in relation to the preliminary implementation as envisaged by the amendments, the investor's input on the property is a follow-up action after there is a judicial act allowing the execution. He stressed that all MPs can submit their proposals on this bill between first and second readings. Ms. Kamenova expressed concern that the proposed bill does not offer a solution to major problems, such as the evaluation of agricultural land according to its category. In response Mrs. Pavlova assured her that she was aware of these problems and that there is a team working to solve them. She stressed that the current bill cannot solve the specific case. After the discussion and discussion held, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the State Property Act, No 402-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2014............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I don't see a representative of the importer, which is why I can't give him the floor to present the bill to us. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. This bill was adopted in the Temporary Legal Commission and the representatives of BSP left Bulgaria did not support it, for some reasons, some of which I will now share with you. First of all, we believe that this important bill should be viewed at least by a permanent committee as the leading and accompanying committees. The same concerns changes to the Law on Municipal Property. There will be no report of the relevant Standing Committee. There is no opinion from the Association of Municipalities. Secondly, the manner of notification of the interested parties has changed. In the draft law, notification shall take place only under art. 61, para. 3 of the AKK, dropping the publication in the Official Journal. Apparently, the importer didn't put much money on publicity in this whole procedure. Thirdly, according to the reasons of Decision No 6 of 15 July 2013 on Constitutional Case No 5 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court, I will quote to you the exact reasons in this decision: With the changes proposed in the bill in art. 39b "Pre-execution allowed in accordance with art. 60 of the APC, the investor should be put into possession before the relevant administrative act has entered into force and clearly the proposal so made does not comply with the Constitution. I'm really surprised because I know who the importer is, and we all know that. I guess there's no limit to servitude. Moreover, the National Assembly has received an opinion from interested parties regarding these changes. These are property owners who are subject to alienation, as they described them, from the neighborhoods of the town. Sofia, Trebic, Iliantsi, Benkovski, Hostebna, Malashevtsi and Orlandovtsi. I fully share their opinion, but at least two points I would also like to share with the National Assembly. In their opinion, they state that in case of acceptance of art. 39b of the State Property Act on preliminary transport in case the alienation does not take place or is revoked under the new art. 39b, para. 9, this will result in the following losses: expenditure from the budgets of the State and the municipalities, first of all; loss of the funds invested so far; costs for the destruction of what was built; costs for the recovery of the property as at the time it was seized; benefits and damages on the property of the owner; financial penalties from the European Union if, in the meantime, funds from the European Union funds are used, they will have to be returned, which constitutes an irregularity and additional financial penalties can be imposed. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Property will, in their view, delay the alienation, because the owners will be conducting three lawsuits instead of one lawsuit, namely for the Voda in possession of art. 60 of the APC, for example whether there has been an entry into force for property valuations, compensation for the time between the vod in possession and the entry into force of the alienation or the compensation for its cancellation. Indeed, the weaknesses in the procedure, which may take the most time, are the personal communication of the acts to the parties concerned. However, there is no need to amend any law to reduce the time, but a better organisation of the work of the investor of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Council of Ministers, municipal administrations for the implementation of the law. Furthermore, I believe that it should not be at the expense of publicity in the process of dropping the advertisement in the Official Journal. The aim of the bill is to speed up the procedure clearly. However, given the clear contradiction with the Constitutional Court's motives regarding the vod in possession prior to an administrative act of alienation entered into force, for these reasons, I believe, at least, that I could not support even at first reading this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u5	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Lazarov, second line, Mr. Kirilov, third line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u6	Madam President, it is good that the representatives of BSP have made evolution in their views on the protection of private property, although the restitution laws still apply. As for the blame cast here, see, well the Council of Ministers is the importer of this bill, of the caretaker government of the Council of Ministers. However, you have failed to explicitly say that the action "introduction" before the administrative act entered into force is decided by the court. That's what you didn't mean. Otherwise, it's a good thing you're protecting private property. Good evolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u7	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, there is really tension in some of the groups of alienated owners in Sofia neighborhoods and this is in connection with the estrangement events regarding the North Tangent. I believe that we have presented their motives in good faith, including at the meeting of the Temporary Legal Committee at both meetings, and at what was not allowed to see, and what was seen essentially for first reading, were representatives of the estranged owners. In order to clarify and replicate you, I will specify the following: the proposed procedure does not in any way affect the cases initiated by the owners. They have the opportunity to defend their rights before a court of law and to receive compensation accordingly. With regard to the legal possibility of protection, they retain it, Mr. Popov, it is guaranteed, but they are deprived of the opportunity to blackmail the investor, they are deprived of the opportunity to blackmail the state or the municipality and to delay this event, which has already been delayed for more than two years. Including in the debates on the committee, you have witnessed that the owners speak, discuss, contact with the Road Infrastructure Agency, that is to say, there is a high probability that some of the disputes will come to an agreement and out of court, that is, that is, that is, to end the cases accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, obviously these things, this matter is a little foreign to you and you don't understand it. [[Laughter at BSP LB. Awesome.]] In theory, you read, but you didn't get it. [[BSP LB.]] What do you get in practice? With what we have at the moment, we give the opportunity, as Mr. Kirilov said, to property owners to blackmail the state, municipalities, performers, investors and so on. In 100% of the cases, property owners claim the value of the property, the valuation they make, for the amount to be paid for their property. The very appeal for the estrangement procedure is made at a much earlier stage and in quite other laws when the EIA is made when a parcel plan is made and so on. In this case, we should not allow for a case for the value of the valuation, which can be extended a year, two, three and until it goes through three instances to slow large infrastructure projects by three years. This basically means that if we allow the owners to mourn the assessment for three years and the majority of the large infrastructure sites are made with European funding and are delayed for three years, we risk losing European funding while one, two, three or five owners mourn the value of the assessment in the relevant administrative court until they reach a third instance. I ask you very much, when you speak from the stands, look at what happens in practice. In 100% of the cases, the estrangement procedure itself is not contested, but the estrangement assessment is appealed. All owners argue only for the price they are paid. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. So the most normal thing is to move on to pre-execution, and the assessment let the court be the one to decide and determine what it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u11	A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lazarov, as stated in the bill "Voda in possession," the preliminary implementation takes place under art. 60 of the AKK. I guess you misunderstand me and I'll tell you again. According to Decision No 6 by giving the investor the opportunity to take possession of the property, Mr. Lazarov, this action to be carried out is violated the Constitution. That's the Constitutional Court's motives. I didn't invent them. Do not mislead your colleagues here that it is a vessel in possession which has been carried out by the court, which is why it will clearly not be unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court must still be dealing with this law. Mr. Kirilov, you know very well that the legal possibility of protecting each of the stakeholders, of each citizen-owner, for the implementation there are certain pre-conditions. You know when these deadlines begin to run and when the possibility of publishing in the Official Journal is dropped and this announcement is glued to the dashboard, at least 90% of the owners will not be able to understand that they have entered this procedure at all. Mr. Mihov, I will take note of your high legal knowledge [[Elevator bell dings]] , but please come out in front of these owners and tell them that they are racketeers, which you just shared with us here in the hall. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u13	Mr. Stanislav Ivanov to speak. [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Ivanov, before that there was another request. Come on in, mate. You're right. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! The demarcation lines emerged in the first speech. Clearly, this is about something that is of great public interest. There is clear public interest in the rapid construction of infrastructure, the development and so on. At the same time, it is clear that we also have a constitutionally fixed right to property that needs to be protected. In this spirit, it is somewhat inappropriate when we are in charge and we want some projects to go faster to be in one position and in the other of the opposition in another. I have a few questions for the committee. I ask to be excused if some of these were answered during the initial report, but it was not really heard in the Chamber. It is a question of the Commission's obligation to establish the existence of reasons under art. 28, para. 2 of the Law on Legislative Acts and therefore that we are under the impression that there are no motives on two of the points in this article, namely the financial and other means necessary to implement the new regulation, as well as in this regard. 5: "Analysis of conformity with European Union law." On the other points, for example, by t. 1 there are no reasons why the adoption is required under § 2 under § 4, point. 2 under § 5, under § 7 and under § 9. The same goes for the t. Two of the law. ) (a.k.a. 4 is completely missing the part about the expected financial results. There is no opinion of the municipalities, which we also believe is a procedural problem. As you know, this same Law on Laws says that if there are no such reports or corresponding motivations under para. 2, must not be discussed by the relevant competent authority. We're also worried about a number of questions. First of all, we start from the public interest how much the state or the municipalities will have to pay if, after one later established as an irregular vod in possession, the destruction of the construction and return of the property as received by the State is required. This is what we are talking now about losing money from the European Union and sanctions, including if it comes to this hypothesis. The example of the North Speed Tangenta, which was given, is also relevant because there is a pity not only price, there is pity for the alienation procedure and there is a question about the PDPs whether they are legal, whether they exist at all. For example, tearing down such a procedure can lead to serious negative results for the state, we are not talking about private interest here. With regard to pre-execution, we are also concerned about the recorded hypothesis. As you know, art. 17, para. 5 of the Constitution says: "The forced alienation of property for state and municipal needs can only be done on the basis of a law, provided that these needs cannot be met in any other way after prior and equivalent compensation. It makes it clear that, in order for the estrangement to occur, equal compensation should be obtained before that. In this spirit, we will probably still have problems in the Constitutional Court, and how he will decide, it is his will now. Speaking of owners, we believe that in the relevant texts it is not...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u15	Mr. Veselinov, I apologize if you could put your card in more precisely because you don't have time on the monitor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u16	Sorry, I'm done. We also believe that this project does not bet a fair assessment procedure, but that is correct, because between first and second readings we could bring in a better procedure. It is about the so-called market analogues, whose demand can sometimes become a mission impossible. It is absolutely unmotivated for us to drop mortgages as a measure, because this is the most common analogue at the moment. In conclusion, we of the Patriotic Front are aware that the subject is delicate, that it must seek balance. However, we believe that this bill is not a good basis for this balance. Of course, we are looking forward to further clarification from the committee responsible, but in general, we could hardly support it. Perhaps it is really appropriate for the Assembly to be set up, for regular committees to work, and then for us to get on with this serious topic, which is serious for both the state and the private interest at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Veselinov! I'll tell you what I can't agree to first. I cannot agree that the bill lacks financial justification, because when you read its motives, you will see that they are basically financial. No additional funds shall be provided for the implementation of this law. On the contrary, its effect will be entirely positive, i.e. it will compensate for delays already caused in time. What would I agree to? As time is over, I missed Mr. Pavlov's speech to speak, I will agree with what Mr. Popov said regarding the promulgation in the Official Gazette. Yes, we can offer that between first and second readings. Yeah, it's good to stay. I have stated to a committee and I now state it to you that we all have a one-way opinion and an opinion that it is high time to maximize the criteria, base and assessment requirements. I agree with what you said about mortgages, and we told the dissatisfied owners of the North Tangent. This is not the only possible flaw in the valuation procedure. Let us find a proper and appropriate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u19	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! I just want to fill in what Mr. Kirilov said. It must be clear to us that the preliminary argument can only be given by the court in advance upon payment of the value in the valuation of the property. So you don't break art. I think it was who read Mr. Veselinov. From now on, in the event of a difference in valuations in the subsequent judgment of the court, it shall be compensated. This is provided by the law, so there is no danger that people will remain undefended on their claims for the price of the property.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u22	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, there is indeed an in-depth dispute. I apologize for going out on the stand again, but I may be obliged to say that if I have, if you will, and a private interest in this law, as I am protecting the interests of citizens of Gabrovo district and all of Northern Bulgaria, because this decision of the Constitutional Court has now stopped the procedure for the construction of the bypass of the town of Gabrovo and the tunnel under Shipka peak, which solves a very painful problem between the division of Northern and Southern Bulgaria. What do you actually get? I again call all the lawyers in the room.. I understand that you read and grasp the point in the law, but what happens in practice? Land that is subject to alienation is purchased by owners from various organisations with unclear objectives, which subsequently these same organizations, having the means and opportunities to delay cases in the respective institutions, are purely and simply blackmailing the state to pay a higher price. It's a kind of profit on their part and abuse of law. Can you tell me how many canceled procedures for drawing up detailed spatial plans or EIA there are in court? There's a return to re-examine, there's a return to change, but there's no cancellation. Understand that the appeal procedure for alienation is done at the level of a detailed spatial plan and at the level of EIA. From there on in advance the owners mourn only the valuation, nothing else. This does not prevent the State or the municipality or which implements the structural project to work. And the price to be what the court decides, but we must not stop large infrastructure projects for years because of, as I said, suspicious persons and organizations buying out the property and then trying to make a profit from this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u23	A hole, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I don't think that when we create a law, we should divide people into good and bad. I believe that this law should be equally objective for both sides. Yeah, there could be speculation. There's a Specula in the whole world and there's no power to overcome it. But in any case, we must give the necessary guarantees to the conscientious owners. At the same time, I am entirely in the position that alienation procedures must find their easier option and be faster and more effective. In no case, however, should one fight the other, a useful balance must be found. Regarding the lines to me, the only thing I've heard is for example whether there is an analysis of compliance with European Union law. That was a question I asked waiting for someone on the committee to answer, an answer I didn't get. This makes me continue to hesitate that the bill that we are currently looking at is not worthy of support.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u25	To speak, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, then Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I believe that my speech might have been more appropriate to do so as a line to a negotiating colleague, but anyway, in a nutshell. Dear colleagues, when you go out here, I address my colleagues on the left, and you speak here from this high tribune, do not play with the fates of the people. As an argument in the speech, a colleague from your parliamentary group mentioned specific procedures that are for the North Speed Tango. Dear colleagues, do you know why people are in a judicial phase right now and are mourning these procedures? Because when you were in power, they didn't have any communication with the institutions on the one hand. On the other hand, they found that the price offered for alienating their properties was 65 cents. The prices at which the properties for the South Rainbow on the ring road are alienated are over BGN 60. There is no appeal. There were agreements, there were people who disagreed, but eventually it was over and all the countries were satisfied. And you, colleagues, have informed these people who are property owners of the Northern Speed Tangerine and I do not know exactly who they have seen, because at all the meetings that I have attended with them, because they are from the electoral area from which I was raised by the Political Party GERB, this is 25-MIR, at all the meetings that I have attended, they said they have no communication with the government, and then it was you. And as a lid, they finally got 65 centimeters. That's why they're grieving the procedure right now. There's nothing else to stop them, there's no such thing! But the mockery and the slap they received from you are still holding the blush on their face. These people are dragging themselves to institutions. Since Mr. Lazarov entered the Road Infrastructure Agency, communication has been restored. These people came during the work of the Temporary Commission, submitted their requests, heard them and we will take appropriate measures. I just want to tell you: when you leave here, don't play with people's fates when you were guilty, and in such a rude way you mocked their fundamental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u27	- What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u28	Dear colleague Ivanov, you obviously did not hear me or read the opinion of these people. It is common to all parliamentary groups and concerns the changes in the current Law on the Law which we have seen in the Legal Commission. There was a representative of these people who failed, rather he was not given an opportunity to take an opinion. For this reason, they made their views known in writing. If anyone is playing with the fates of these people, forgive me, but it's not us, it's the opposite. We went out and told them what these people thought in part of it our opinion, which I put forward just before all my colleagues. Others are playing with the fates of these people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u29	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u30	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will be very brief. Mr. Popov, when did you find out about the problem with the North Tangent? When you were in power, or the other day at the Commission meeting? You probably figured it out the other day because it was good for you to find out then. You didn't understand it when people wanted to meet you, you were hiding, and finally, when somehow their problem became acceptable to you, then you pulled it out. Not to mention who edited their opinions, but that's another topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u31	Mrs. Manolova has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u32	Honourable Members, Madam President! In recent days, in fact, since its very beginning and the National Assembly, and the Temporary Legal Commission have been working hard for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. We were even able to pass a law in two readings. We are discussing amendments to the State Property Act. Yesterday we passed the Roads Act. All this shock legislation, in my opinion, will eventually take out eyes instead of writing eyebrows, because in addition to violating all the time limits for examining the bills, basic requirements for their preparation are also being violated. This is particularly unacceptable when it comes to bills tabled by the Council of Ministers, as is the case at hand. Why should the rules in the preparation of the bills be observed in my opinion is the most clear under this Law that we are discussing at the moment. It is said that there should be, in addition to financial justification, a note of the action of the bill in question, but also an assessment of the impact of this project. Therefore, while formally one of the colleagues here responds to the representatives of the Patriotic Front that no additional financial payments on this bill will occur, the effects of this bill can be really very serious for both the state and the municipalities and the owners. What do I mean? It is clear to all lawyers that, in cases of pre-execution, in the event of admission to a estranged property, different hypotheses may occur because, apart from the fact that the owner may have appealed to the property assessment, he might in practice have appealed to the substance of the alienation itself. If there is evidence that such cases do not end favorably for the owners of the court, perhaps it was normal for this information to be provided precisely by the importer? At this stage, however, we cannot say that. Moreover, how previous cases ended does not mean that it would guarantee the outcome of pending and subsequent trials. By the way, this is another concern that when pre-execution is allowed, it largely prejudges the outcome of the proceedings. However, I am putting this matter aside. I ask: what would happen if those who have appealed essentially win the cases in court? However, it is, as far as we know, over 300 cases. It's enough to win five cases when it comes to a wealth of properties, that would be a problem. They're here and now all the subsequent financial loads. I do not wish to comment on what financial terms would be expressed unless one of you here stands up and guarantees that all the trials will end in a specific way. How much would this Bill be worth to the owners? I admit, since I have not dealt with a topic, I have not commented with representatives of the owners in previous and pó previous managements their problems. However, what I saw the other day at the Commission meeting did not introduce me to the idea that the new power was in good communication with the owners. The woman who appeared at the extraordinary, expressly called meeting of the Temporary Commission explained that the team of lawyers from the representatives of the relevant committee could not come at all due to the lightning communication on the date of this meeting. In fact, we couldn't hear their legal arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u33	I thought you said there was one.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u34	Yes, she was present, but she objected herself and explained that she heard at the last minute. She definitely disagreed with this bill. First of all, we didn't hear the committee. Secondly, what we heard from the woman who was able to show up was that they were categorically against it. Although the woman was not a lawyer, she explained their objections quite meaningfully. She said the following thing: the Law on State Property, respectively the Law on Municipal Property in the estranged procedure part, cannot be touched in pieces and that the problem is complex. If pre-execution is to be allowed here, the part with regard to assessments should also be touched. What the case-law shows is that, unlike importers, there was an analysis of the case-law, that the benefits awarded are several times higher than the ex ante assessment. This means that there are major problems in the valuation methodology. It is clear what the Constitutional Court has said: it is fair that compensation is given by a court. We have no argument here. The assessment criteria must therefore be as close as possible to what the court has determined. So what's the problem with the owners? Yes, they are actually paid the compensation, but the compensation awarded under this methodology, which is in fact disproved by the judicial acts, means that people will be waiting at times higher benefits given by a court. It's possible they'll never get it or get it after 2-3-5 years. Here I remember what the main cause of the right in the previous Parliament was during our rule. Then Mr. Kostov's cause was to protect the privacy of private property, to protect precisely those owners who had not received their benefits for years. And now it turns out that the right hand no longer cares about this problem, does not care whether people will be adequately requited and whether they have reliable guarantees to receive this money in due time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u35	Yeah, 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u36	In addition, it is clear to lawyers that several times lawsuits are increased, perhaps three or four times, because, in addition to standard cases against alienation in principle and against assessment, court cases are already under way against the vooda, compensation for the period between the vooda and the actual alienation, and so on and so forth. After all, we will not support this bill and because it cannot be legislated. A bill cannot be tabled in which there is no impact assessment when it comes to complex public relations, when the law has been changed several times when there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court which has annulled previous texts. There can be no express release of a bill which does not meet the requirements, which is rushed through the Temporary Commission, which is viewed quickly through the hall and resulting in a mass of consequences which are unfavourable in financial terms for both the state and the municipalities and the owners. Maybe there should have been an analysis of why it came to this problem. Because, excuse the public discussion, as far as there has been one, it has become clear that in a number of municipalities there are no problems with estrangement procedures that where the administration is at its place, in cases where it has mechanisms and does its job by administrative procedures to inform the owners quickly and properly, there is no such problems at all, neither so many lawsuits nor their hanging out nor their tardiness. That is, perhaps here the carelessness of the administration, which blocks the construction of important infrastructure projects, is corrected by legislative changes which, on the one hand, are on the verge of the Constitution. I don't want to repeat myself, everyone has read the constitutional solution. In particular, lawyers can draw the conclusions on how this change is on the brink and it is not clear in the next attack what will happen in the Constitutional Court, but in practice there are financial risks both for the state and for the municipalities and for the owners without sufficient analysis of the problems. That's what I object to. This is not a good start for the work of the forty-third National Assembly. No such important bills can be viewed this way without the opinion of committees of owners, NGOs, the National Association of Municipalities, without having a financial analysis without the Minister of Regional Development or his deputy representative being here. You can't pass laws like this. This is not the way to start the work of the Forty-third National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u37	- What's the line? Mr. Mihov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I respect your abilities very much as a lawyer, but again I urge you to look at the practice. For five years, I have listened to your parliamentary group for every more controversial law you frighten us with the Constitutional Court. I don't know if the Constitutional Court works for you or under your dictatorship, but of almost every law you frighten us with the Constitutional Court. Understand that the practice is very different. We must not make laws that are contrary to practice. Make a difference between the estrangement procedure and the property valuation procedure. That's two different things. No one has any intention of harming the owners and they will in one way or another...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I ask you once again.. give me an example with a case which has ended with the cancellation of alienation or cancellation of a detailed planning or EIA. There isn't one. You have to understand that's the practice. There are important infrastructure projects. We defend interests or rather oppose citizens in this way. You say: yes, five people above the tangent have claim to the price. No one's questioning their price assessment. No-one! But we can't put a whole nation hostage because of procedures that we ourselves don't know exactly how they're going to develop in time. Understand there is a difference between evaluation and estrangement itself. Nobody's questioning that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u39	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, by admiring your exhibition in its manipulative part [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] I cannot accept that you do not understand the text of the project which has been submitted. And because I won't be able to put everything against your position in two minutes, I will only try to mark it, and obviously I will ask for a separate statement. I specify: in the bill is proposed the court of the court, not the administration, but the court of the court of pre-execution only if the dispute is for a price. If the dispute is about another issue of alienation, of course, there will be no court to allow for a preliminary execution. The Court of Justice shall allow ex ante enforcement if it is contested by a price. You have told in detail about the lady who was instantly, expressly, but was still present at the meeting. I didn't want to comment in detail, obviously and you know a lot about the lady in question, but API specifically informed: the lady is not the owner there, she represents the Real Estate Agency. Once the real estate agencies found out that we were debating this issue expressly, and last time we had the opportunity, but you didn't let us listen to the owners themselves, so the Commission was still working as publicly and as transparently as possible. I also specify the following and say it clearly to colleagues: this regime, Mrs. Manolova, has been working for more than two years, I will not say three, but it has been working for more than two years. He works not only in Sofia for the South Rainbow. He works all over the territory. The only problem was that the administration allowed the preliminary execution. That's what we want to change the court won't allow.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u41	Third line, Mr. Nenkov. Unless you wish to give in to Mr. Lazarov, as you will take a statement, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u42	I'll do the talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u43	Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u44	Madam President, there was a question raised here by Mrs. Manolova that there was no assessment. And this is from a party that suggested that it would open up 250,000 jobs, and the consequence was that the EU funds were stopped. Naturally, the point of this bill is to absorb these EU funds and to have jobs. So in this part of this manipulative statement, I think there is nothing more to comment on. With regard to the fair price, this is the decision of the Constitutional Court, this bill provides: once the compensation provided for by the investor is transferred to the same amount, one more time is transferred to the account of the district governor and different institutions, if the court determines a higher price, it may immediately be used. By the way, such a bill operates in Germany. In 2011, when it was first adopted, this experience was replicated. And a third time this bill provides that those whose lands are alienated have the right to receive compensation for lost benefits. And with regard to prices, there is no way in law to record prices. If that were possible, you would have, I suppose, written down in law what happened to the memos when you replaced private properties valued at pennies against properties valued in hundreds of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u45	A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! On the third line, I think it makes no sense to answer, because it was not legally justified, even though it was pronounced by a lawyer. If I am going to have to answer it, we will have to go to investigate the reasons why EU funds were stopped, and we will get to the reason, to the adoption of such bills, namely the actions, including the administration of Sofia, because because of violations in public procurements of Sofia Municipality and Burgas Municipality, the EU funds under the Environment Programme were stopped. Perhaps we should repeat it, and we will every day from the parliamentary tribune to stop abusing this subject. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] But if we are to talk specifically about the submitted bill, here, honourable Members, the hypotheses are very and very different. Yes, I agree that a preliminary implementation, according to the proposed text, can be admitted for a property where only the assessment of compensation is mourned. But that does not mean that the neighbor of this property does not have a court case in which to appeal, in principle, alienation! And then what comes out? The digger enters a property and does not enter the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u47	We're not doing nationalization. Every case goes separate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u48	The problem is another if this bill was submitted under all the rules of the Law on Laws and Parliamentary Rules, it really had to have an analysis of the situation, an analysis of the reasons, an analysis of the possible decisions and the consequences of these decisions, because obviously in each decision there are pros and cons. However, this is absolutely absent here, and for this reason it is not my speech that is manipulative, but the motives of this bill are manipulation because they do not represent the whole truth! I don't want to go in that direction anymore. I took the liberty of quoting the Constitutional Court's decision because it really requires these legal changes. If not our parliamentary group, because we have not commented at all on an attack on this bill, it is possible that other entities will attack it before the Constitutional Court. Here, in my opinion, it should not be the ugliness of whether one or another text of law will be attacked, but the ugliness of whether we allow ourselves in legislative activity to violate the Constitution! The interests of different entities can be different, but ultimately the Constitution must be respected and this must be the guiding beginning in the work of the National Assembly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And one last sentence. All this would not be achieved if the procedures in this House were also followed. I'm saying this before the new parliamentary regulations are adopted. If they had been heard by the Association of Municipalities, if NGOs had been heard, if they had not been heard by land buyers like this lady, and the committee of true owners could indeed have come up with better solutions. Now we're just making legislation, law of fist. It can't be good.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u49	To make a statement, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Many things were said in the discussion on the submitted State Property Bill. Opinions were heard about the opposite and the opposite. I get the impression because I could not make a line a moment ago that colleagues on the left rather seek from which well water to bring to justify that they would not support a bill. Yes, there is indeed a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has its reasons, its reasons, but it does not really give the decision to how we, as MPs, will find a good balance between private and public interest. Yes, there are reasons in the part where it is necessary to regulate how the price at which the owners will be compensated will be determined. When and in what cases it will be possible, I repeat, after a decision of the court, that the investor should have the right and that the contractor of the infrastructure site itself should be in possession. You have talked a lot about the fact that almost by presumption the assessment being given is not adequate. Why does it have to be inadequate, why does it have to be lower? If it turns out that the court will rule that the assessment is lower, there is also such a hypothesis. There is also a hypothesis that can confirm the assessment made by the relevant authorities. In the past the National Assembly talked enough about this thing, there was a serious enough discussion. I think that everyone present or the majority of those present in this Chamber is very clear on what this is about. We, as MPs, if we are truly responsible, must find a good balance. This is precisely why the opportunity has been given between the first and second votes, if we are in principle in favour of the project submitted by the Council of Ministers, to jointly find the best solution precisely in order to find this balance between the private and the public interest, in order not to limit the ability of our already troubled economy to realise the maximum number of large infrastructure sites. I would like to ask: how many large infrastructure sites in this country are there that we are currently arguing about? Instead of being a priority, so that it can happen as quickly as possible. It's not just about making one highway or some other object. These are projects that are of great importance to the economy, to the workforce, to open up more jobs, to have better connectivity between the regions, so that the regions can equalise according to their economic status. So we have to find this balance if we're really responsible. If we're just looking for a cheap political advantage of the situation, if we really have a claim to be responsible, I don't think that suits us. Moreover, given that the other day there was an interview by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, saying that Bulgaria is in danger of losing more than 106 million. EUR from such projects. You know, a lot of these funds come from exactly this slowdown in their absorption? Let's really pass one of these laws. I think that the draft Council of Ministers has made very good explanations when, in what cases there may be a preliminary implementation. There is a part that talks about how and how the valuation of the property is to be determined. I appeal to all of you to adopt the bill at first reading and together to develop such a project that corresponds precisely to this balance between private and public interest. Not just looking for a cheap political dividend. You will not achieve it, because I do not think that people, too, is a more specialized topic, attach so much importance to this bill, except those who are affected directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u51	- What's the line? I won't. To address Mr. Georgi Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u52	I'm gonna have to ask you to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u53	Make sure the time is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A lot of things have been said in this tribune, and I'd like to start with the last one that doesn't concern many people. Anyone in this room can be in the state in which they are currently suffering the victims of the owners of these lands that will be alienated. Every single one of them! And every single one of them can get an administrative route, determined since the late 1990s, because the law has been ever since, such an unfair assessment. What's currently being proposed is to strengthen that 65 cents. Of course, the question of delaying alienation is also a very serious question, but when has there been no speculation with the earth? And notice the methodology for assessing, when there is a dispute, the fair price is sought not of the owner, of the co-owner when there is a deal, but only when it is made by a transaction with an investment firm for agricultural land. It's a complex five-letter name. Only then! And that's only 2%! Only 2% in the country. And that's why I'm asking: what was the rush without the committees being drawn up? Why? In a week or two, would something change? Back. Conversely, when you pass an unfair law, you are unfair to society, because those people who live in Malashevtsi in Trebic, I know a lot of them because I grew up in this area, I lived there, so I know these people's mentalities very well. These people suffer for taking their land. These people are the prototypes of Elin Pelin's heroes, so we have to be fair to them. Because it's one thing to give 60 leva, it's another to give 65 pennies! And that's why you have to think about them, because it's easy to rob them. Those who were really speculators, they had purchased the land and therefore to be very careful and very thoughtful. Under current law, you can appeal, and you can stop a procedure, but get on your property without having received its real value, its fair value, is plundering. And I believe that apart from the Patriot front and other formations that claim to protect the interests of the ordinary person, as we are all here, there are no extraordinary ones among us, only God is extraordinary, we must defend ourselves, and we must defend the people who have sent us to this National Assembly, which is forty-third, so think, when you are in a hurry with the vote and not because you have been ordered partyly, directly, but because it is necessary to really adopt a fair law, which should be discussed and combine the interests of both the builders of sites, such as the one in Gabrovo, the tunnel to be built between North and South Bulgaria, and the North Tangent of Sofia, and the other major infrastructure projects of Bulgaria. There is not a person who does not want Bulgaria to be better, but let us also protect the person who will suffer in the form of his real robbery when his property is taken in vain.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u55	- What's the line? For a line Mrs. Yanakieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Anastasov, the question is undoubtedly very important. Allow me, as a man who has spent a long time dealing with this matter, as mayor, to say: yes, this is extremely important. This gives a number of projects a chance to happen or not to happen, not only large infrastructure, not only projects related to European funds but, in principle, investment projects. But because you were talking about how the adoption of this amendment would damage people and instead of getting 60 leva per square meter they would get 65 pennies is not the problem. The problem really is the methodology by which assessments are made. And if licensed evaluators who must make the assessment are based on sales prices in this area, then I don't know if anyone can answer what is based on the property in the court that gives the estimates. Mrs. Manolova is right that there is almost no case in court where the price is not increased. Rather, we need to ask ourselves whether we have the right methodologies, and if we have to make adjustments somewhere, it is precisely in these methodologies and with sub-normal documents, but in no case can you convince me or the other people who professionally deal with the fact that the amendment of the law will damage the citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u57	Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yanakieva, I appreciate your qualities as Head and Mayor of Pernik Municipality on behalf of the Left. It is certainly that this particular law does not give this answer, which is why we cannot and should not accept it, because it has another, restrictive part to introduce the investor without compensation for the owner. And here we are talking about the following is much simpler at this time to introduce investors, to seek to give a higher real assessment, so that in a low assessment this 3-year procedure can begin at least, or 4 or 5 years old, given the speed of work of our judicial system, which we are accused of from Brussels. That's what makes the sluggish clerk think at some point about what a fair price he has to pay. And that's where people's great sorrows begin. You actually confirm what I'm proposing, what we're proposing. Let us do a really serious analysis of the State Property Act and its amendments so that we can accept something that is absolutely equal or almost equal, because nothing equal has nothing equal in life, but to equal the interests of both owners and investors, of the state and of society. It's the only way. If we pass this law now, we impose restrictions. Think about it, because tomorrow I stress again, any one of these rooms could be in the situation of these people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. To speak the word has Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Radan Kanev and Mr. Mihov signed up after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The decision to be made is indeed very difficult. It gets even harder when I have to witness an incredible chameleonism by the former rulers. Mrs. Manolova, you wanted someone from the Patriotic Front to answer you, but I don't know when you're sincere. Perhaps when on July 31st of this year, on the last working day of the government, Minister Terzieva issued Building Permit No 49 for the construction of the South Stream Project and sold 358 decares of state forest fund at prices significantly lower than market prices. Perhaps then you were sincere and defending the public interest. Personally, I am not convinced, and the Patriotic Front, I think, and my colleagues from the Reformation Block have appealed this decision to the Supreme Administrative Court. The most interesting thing is that the Minister of Regional Development replied by letter that the public interest was not protected at all. So much for your chameleonishness. It is a question that we must protect both the public interest today, which concerns the construction of large infrastructure projects that develop the Bulgarian economy, open jobs, but we cannot ignore the private interest that is indeed protected by the Constitution once and the second time it is protected by European legislation. Personally, I cannot get an answer in the bill on how European interest is protected. The change of a law cannot lie on the hypothesis that, you see, someone has been enterprising and because he is enterprising, we must punish him by changing the law. It's just not serious. Among other things, if this is how we think about it, who will answer that once the relevant infrastructure project is built, someone else will not benefit by selling the same land afterwards for building motels, gas stations at many, much higher prices? This answer we do not receive today, so personally I will refrain from hoping that a serious dialogue will take place between the two readings in the first place with the directly interested owners of the terrain in order to achieve the best solution and really protect public and private interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u61	Replies to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement? There aren't any. You have the floor for a personal explanation, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking a personal explanation procedure because my arguments regarding the way this bill has been tabled have already been set out. In addition, the speaker and I have just agreed in our intention to abstain in terms of his support. I would advise the gentleman: he and his colleagues from the Patriotic Front not to talk about chameleonism, at least given the company they are currently in. As for the act by which Minister Terzieva carried out alienation and evaluation of state lands, he could have been that way because of the imperfections in the law. That is, if we are going to make a change in the estrangement procedure, assuming prior execution, we should in any case touch both the methodology and the criteria of property valuation, because, excuse me, they are the same for alienating private property, and for alienating state and municipal property. Justice requires that in both cases there be a real, adequate assessment in order to respect the public interest, so that speech was in support of all the arguments I have put forward so far. I think our vote will be the same. I would call for a more correct tone in plenary. We don't need to be offended even more when we don't have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u63	To speak, there is Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The topic is really very important and I thank Mrs. Manolova for taking into account her importance for the right hand in Bulgaria. It is undisputed that we represent the interests of people who have suffered for generations from arbitrage in the processes of alienation of private property and its compensation. Therefore, both we and our constituents are extremely sensitive to any bill that gives greater rights to the administration both in the process of alienation and in the process of compensation. We will support this bill at first reading, and this is not an easy solution for us. I'll give the arguments and reservations for second reading. First of all, the common need to accelerate the process of alienation is undisputed. It has been proven for a period of more than 10 years, and is constantly, with fatal deadlines, put to the test the opportunities of Bulgaria to absorb European funds for key projects due to its inability to carry out estrangement procedures within the time limit. No one, by the way, has, in my speech so far, noticed to question the need to speed up the process, nor the effectiveness of the apropo mechanism, which is currently being proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development. On the legal side, the proposed mechanism is the purest one we have ever met. I would say, without being able to anticipate the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that it is also legally clean. There is no relevant effect prior to the final determination of the compensation. The requirement for prior and equivalent compensation has been met. There are enough hypotheses in the Bulgarian legislation in which it is carried out in possession without the physical effect of having occurred, or a legal dispute being final, with a solution entered into force, cleared, so this is not about any particular and dangerous precedent. The important thing for the owners is that alienation is not in force until all the disputes between them and the administration are over. The economic side of the mechanism is more than controversial. I agree with everyone who says that the administration with this bill puts itself at great risk and puts the budget at great risk. The possibility of seeking compensation under the order of art. 39b, para. 4-8 of the proposed Law on Amendment and Supplement creates a real danger of dishonest citizens, businesses, people of the type of speculators in question, who have been mentioned several times, to squeeze the budget with huge benefits for lost benefits, and the mechanism for determining and appealing benefits is not a guarantee against that risk. I consider it to be extremely prudent in the future if this bill is adopted. Administrations are extremely rarely able to resort to pre-execution because they risk it to be very, very expensive for them. There is a very specific moment and this is the Order of Art. 39b, para. 9 which provides for compensation in the event that the alienation still falls out, i.e. outside the dispute only on the value of the compensation, and a dispute on the substance of ownership and the legal effect in the process of alienation. We have a very, very bitter experience of seeking such benefits. I will say my opinion that the intended payment of another amount of compensation to the county administration's account is not something that will reassure the owners. We will be under very serious pressure both in the process of adopting the law and in the process of implementing it. Neither will people feel comfortable that this amount is sufficient, nor will they feel comfortable that it can easily be collected by the district government once it has been deposited there. We have heard many times from importers and from all of us supporting the bill, the argument that it is a very small number of major national projects, respectively very few budget investors, no matter how big the budgets are. I will propose to my colleagues in the period between the two readings to introduce some form of general bank guarantee by the investor for all possible benefits as under para. 4-8 as well as the specific compensation under para. 9. It is indisputable and here again I want to report that Mrs. Manolova was right, the need for a comprehensive revision of legislation, including in the area of assessments, including with much more precise and much more precise in terms of the law in the legal acts texts. It is undeniable that adopting hell-hock laws is a bad practice, and also, although we are not speaking it in the right text, that in this case we are faced with a hell-hok legislation. Bulgaria cannot afford to lose in the current situation several billion BGN of international funding. This would be a crime to the current and future generations, and we are facing this risk very really. That is why my appeal is to all my colleagues in the majority of the European Union, and I address my colleagues in the Patriotic Front in particular. In such a situation, there is no need to address the opposition. It is in its full right to defend its political interest in a controversial bill. Our responsible position is a vote on the first reading and a very serious pressure in the committees, a requirement for the minister to appear at second reading and to defend the controversial positions very in detail so that we can avoid all the disturbing elements of this bill in the period until the second reading. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u66	Mr. Kanev, until your speech in the Chamber between the various parliamentary groups, I think there was a connection to this Bill and the proposed amendments to it in terms of the maximum solution for both individual and public interests, with the understanding that this Bill does not magically solve a very complex node which has not been solved in other countries during the periods of their construction of their road infrastructure. The same were the problems in France, Germany, Italy, everywhere. There are countries that have been chronically unable to solve it. Portugal is such a country if you go. Only 15 years ago, this issue was resolved there because of complex property relations over the years. Fortunately, we don't have such a long story. However, to call on your colleagues to divide here into rulers and opposition under a law that concerns, as my colleague Georgi Anastasov said, everyone in this Chamber, who may find themselves in this situation, I think it is not correct. [[Reply of National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Let's split up like this here, right now, by law that concerns such interests, I think it's stupid. I'm sorry about the expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u67	Second line, come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kanev, I agree with you that public interest requires a better procedure in the alienation of these properties, but thus recorded, the text has an ambiguity in it. You also said it yourself in your statement according to the proposed art. 39b in the case of pre-execution by the order of art. 60 of the AKK. Article 60 of the APC speaks of prior implementation. In paragraph 4 of this Article. 60 is the order by which a pre-execution is permitted or refused. An appeal may be brought before an Administrative Court through the authority which issued the act. This is where the coworkers were talking about court-martial jurisdiction. They were just talking about it. The text thus recorded has two meanings.. In the end, whether the appeal under para. 5 and para. Article 6 60 was respected, whether or not she was respected, whether or not that order... I rather understand that it is the order by which it is permitted. That's how it's written down in art. 39 The release of pre-execution. Here again it is an administrative body, an administrative act. We're not against this bill in principle, but let's have a look. Let the texts be introduced in accordance with constitutional requirements, with the Law on Legislative Acts and be very well refined. They concern important public relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u69	Thank you. Mr. Popov, in your line you made a statement as a second reading. Finally, you rightly said that we are at first reading where the philosophy and principles of the Bill are discussed. [[Reply of National Representative Philip Popov.]] Let's stick to the rules. We're talking about the first reading of the Bill. Third line, please, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u70	Mrs. Chairman, you high-respected high-ranking men! Mr. Kanev, I am not a lawyer, but I am a law lover. To tell you the truth, I'm personally embarrassed by the preliminary motion of possession because that limits private property. Private property implies the right of disposal and possession, and this is a direct limitation of the right of private property, of ownership, to the final, as you said, a decision of the dispute. That's the first one. Secondly, you and your colleagues are talking about abuse of law, abuse of law. I remember a phrase spoken in this National Assembly a hundred years ago by a very prominent Bulgarian statesman who sounds exactly like this: The possible abuse of the right is not a basis for limitation of the rights of the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u71	You have the right to an asshole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u72	): Mr. Zablyanov, I don't know why you think we don't have a long history. I did not want to go into this tone of speech exchange, but thanks to your party we have a very long and very traumatic history of property in Bulgaria. I can tell you this through the history of my own family, but there won't be enough time for the backdrop. Undoubtedly in Bulgaria thanks to a series of processes beginning with the landing of refugees, not to go back any further after the Liberation, then the landing of refugees, then the nationalization and collectiveisation, and then the difficult restitution processes, there is an extremely, extremely difficult and long history of property. And in our case, the process of alienation is one of the most complex from both legal and purely technical point of view, because of the size of the plots and from a psychological point of view. These are three very heavy factors, which are currently a little quick looking for a solution. I'm not going to agree that this is about a collision of individual and public interests. By the way, I call on colleagues from GERB not to slip on this plane which is being handed to them. There is no colosis of individual and public interest. Public interest is a set of millions of individual interests, and our task is to look for difficult balances to make the final decision. It is not my public interest to travel to Varna on a highway. It is not public the interest of the Varna business to be connected to the highway with Sofia. These are private interests, undoubtedly so important and so many that they acquire a predominantly public character. It's not about colosion, it's about looking for the right solution, which is always difficult and always disturbs someone's interest. And no offense, I'm dividing this House into a majority and an opposition. This is a very worthy position for you and very difficult for us. It is at such very difficult moments that this Bill may prove to be the most important in our entire session, although it was submitted at the beginning, even though we do not have committees, as from the point of view of what you call public interest, that is, the absorption of EU funds, so from the point of view of individual dramas that can and will cause any alienation. This is an extremely important bill! And on this bill, the role of the opposition is to find any argument against, and to vote against. And that's great. The role of the majority is to support, in principle, if I share the need in general. The fact that some of the colleagues on the left also support in general, you have now heard it only makes me happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. There's a word for words, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are very interested in this discussion so far. We are tempted to propose a slightly different approach in trying to understand the objectives of the proposed bill. We would suggest that you abstain from the fact that we have a Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Make that effort. You will need it to navigate. He's not in the law. Imagine a situation where you need to build an object of national importance that will pass through your private property. This law is gone, I repeat. You cannot stop the execution of the object of national importance. The issue has long been resolved to be the subject of the discussion today, was in the form of original lines in relation to the speech of the previous speaker. This site will pass through your private property if we are talking about a road or other infrastructure project. The matter is solved! It's not the subject of this law. What does this law offer? So far, the balance between public interest and private interest, if we say that public interest has already prevailed in terms of the owner's inability to stop the project, because it cannot do so, the balance between public interest and private interest is settled through the compensation procedure of the owner. And if this law were to stop or restrict the right of the owner to appeal the determined price of compensation, we would vote against. The law doesn't offer such a thing. The right of the owner to request another price of compensation is sacred, it is already settled and is preserved in this law. And we get to the bottom of it, and I propose no party bias, no populism, no self-sustainment, not politicizing the debates, let's say what this law says: I, the private owner, do not accept the assessment, appeal it through the Bulgarian court. Until today, the appeal has stopped the execution of the infrastructure site. With the adoption of this law, implementation will continue, but my right to appeal and to ask for a higher price will not stop this procedure. After all, we will still get the same result. Sooner or later the project will be implemented, sooner or later my right as owner will be protected by an act of the court. The difference is that after the adoption of this law the implementation of the project, which will be implemented anyway, will not stop and thus eliminate the risk that Bulgaria will lose huge funds in times of crisis, including the operational programmes of the European Union. Simple. We must have the will to treat such bills without populism with a clear awareness of public interest, without prejudice to private. Otherwise, honourable Members, you will find yourself saying something very dangerous. If you bind the court's decision on the final cost of compensation to the fact of the suspension of the project, you say: Excuse me, Nonsense! That's a ridiculous statement! Because nothing changes except the fact that, under the preserved sacred right of the private owner to claim a higher value of compensation, it will simply continue the implementation of the infrastructure project. Of course, between first and second readings, if necessary, to clarify some texts in order to overcome unnecessary fears, I assure you, irrational Owned by the DPS, we will insist, however, that the private interest be protected and, in another way, that the evil practice should be stopped, somewhere to put a message that there is a estranged procedure that concerns the owner. And since he read, he didn't read that ad, after a certain period of time the state said, "You missed the deadline, mind your own business! This can't happen. And because there are many Bulgarian citizens who, for one reason or another, do not live at a permanent address, immigrants abroad, it is necessary to introduce explicit obligations of the administration, if necessary, that notification will necessarily reach the person concerned. If not more permanent, it must be informed by current address. This must be certified in order for it to be preserved and its right to appeal one or another assessment of the compensation. This should be done between first and second readings. My call is to vote consciously for public interest without disturbing the private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand Mr. Mestan's argument, as it helps speed up modernization, to solve problems through the benefits that give these opportunities. Although if we look from liberal positions, from the positions of the interests of the individual owner, there is concern or at least the question arises: is the requirement of para. 5th art. 17 of the Constitution providing for two equivalent requirements for the expropriation of private property? One requirement is that these needs cannot be met in any other way. In this case we are not discussing this hypothesis, the other is after advance and equal compensation. If this equivalent compensation is not sought at the beginning of the procedure, it shall jeopardise the very possibility of achieving this outcome in the course of the judicial appeal. Of course, fair compensation in many cases besides objective criteria also contains some dose of subjectivism. However, where the estrangement authority is required to seek compensation in accordance with market conditions, with other factors that determine the price of the property, the possibility of the State authority getting close to it is much greater than to rely on the court subsequently only in the individual appeal to achieve this. So my line is in this regard.. the perception of this regime will not play a disciplining role. Otherwise, on the way to speeding up judicial procedures and other issues, this can be resolved so as not to delay the implementation of such investment projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u77	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Mestan? You're not gonna use the back. Any other MPs for speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I call on the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber on the forthcoming vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the State Property Act, No 402-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Voting mode. Vote 194 MPs: 150, against 3, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. The next item for our program this week: PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Let's start with him after the break so we don't tear up the report. I'm calling a break at 11.25. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u78	The sitting continues with discussion The report of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Atanasova, are you ready to report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I present to you: Ruler for the organization and activities of the National Assembly. The Commission shall support the text of the draft rules on the name of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u80	I vote on the Commission proposal, which supports the text of the draft terms of the Rules of Procedure. Voting mode. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u81	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 2. "Chapter 2" Constitution of the National Assembly and changes in the management. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u82	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of "Chapter 1" "Constitution of the National Assembly" and changes in the management and members from 1 to 4 inclusive. We vote. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u83	Under art. 5 there is a proposal from the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Tsveta Karayancheva, Krasimir Tsipov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly may be early released: 1. on their application; 2. on a written proposal at least one third of all Members of the National Assembly, where there is an objective failure to fulfil the obligations or systematically exceed the rights, or a systematic failure to fulfil the obligations within their competence; 3. on a written proposal from the parliamentary group formed by the parliamentary party or coalition that proposed them. (2) The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall be released early upon leaving the Parliamentary Group or upon exclusion from the Parliamentary Group, as well as upon suspension of the existence of the Parliamentary Group. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 the release shall be announced without discussing and voting. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 the proposal shall be put to the vote at the first meeting after the day of its entry, giving the person the right to be heard. The proposal is accepted if more than half of the MPs present voted for it. (5) In the event of early release under para. 1 or 2 new choices shall be made within 14 days of the adoption of the decision under conditions and by order laid down by procedural rules adopted by the National Assembly. Until a new election for the President of the National Assembly is made, it shall be chaired by the Vice-President, broadcast by the largest parliamentary party or coalition registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the last elections for MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u84	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to draw your attention to the proposal made by the MPs from GERB, which is adopted by the Temporary Commission and which is reproduced in the final proposal for text under art. 5, para. 5. With this change, when it comes to a new election of the President of the National Assembly, the standard practice that has been reproduced in the previous rules is to be replaced by the Vice-President of the same parliamentary group. A proposal is made here to violate this principle, to replace it with the Vice-President, who is broadcast by the largest parliamentary group, with which we deviate from the rule, first. Secondly, it is almost assumed that it is excluded to elect a President of the National Assembly from another group, outside the largest. For this reason we do not accept this proposal, all the more so that it is clear from the previous National Assembly, and from this National Assembly that it is sustainable majority from now on, and especially one-party, there will hardly be. Therefore, a more general approach should be adopted, which has been reproduced in the previous rules. If we continue the reasoning in the plane in which they are made by the importers of this proposal, another question would arise: why do we only settle hypotheses with regard to the Vice-Presidents when they are excluded from the composition of their parliamentary group or voluntarily leave it, given the persons who are elected as Vice-Presidents, and we do not allow such an opportunity for the President of the National Assembly?! It could be thought in a hypothesis in which the President decided to leave his group because it is possible, first of all, that he should be chosen and not by the greatest, but that hypothesis is possible for him as well as for each of the Vice-Presidents, then to act the rule of para. 2. That is, if we assume that any of the Vice-Presidents of this National Assembly can leave their parliamentary group, why do we exclude this possibility with regard to the President of the National Assembly, all the more so that there could be any other hypotheses in the future regarding this choice. That's why I'm offering in para. 2 to be added to the word "the President" at the beginning of the sentence, and it to sound like this: "The Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall be released early upon leaving the parliamentary group or upon exclusion from its composition, as well as upon suspension of the existence of the parliamentary group. If we assume that each of the parliamentary groups that are in the composition of this National Assembly may cease to exist, why do we exclude such an opportunity with regard to the largest, namely GERB? So for fullness, I think it is correct to assume a hypothesis in which GERB ceases to exist as a parliamentary group and a corresponding procedure for choosing a chair on this basis. So we will not support GERB's proposal for para. 5 and we offer this editorial addition in para. 2 in the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u86	It's not editorial.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u87	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u88	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am inclined to support Mrs Manolova's editorial proposal, although it is essentially, but I disagree with the finding made before all of you that the tradition has changed within the framework of the forty-third National Assembly. 5 and her questioning by Mrs. Manolova. On the contrary, the tradition is that the Vice-President replaces the President of the largest parliamentary group and has always been so. Only within the framework of the Forty-second National Assembly, when not the largest parliamentary group had a chair, but the second largest, that is, then Coalition for Bulgaria, were changed the rules. And since there was no one there and there was no opportunity to challenge these rules, the ruling majority adopted its Rules in this way. I now propose that we return the tradition to parliamentaryism, write such a text, and therefore I urge you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u89	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I will first put to the vote the supplement that Mrs. Maya Manolova made in the version of para. 2, supported in her speech by the President of the Commission Mrs. Atanasova. Vote 136 MPs: 134, no abstentions 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u90	A al. Five?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u91	No proposal has been made under para. 5, Mr. Kazak has a statement on the proposed version, but there was no proposal. We are voting for the full version of art. 5 on a proposal from the Commission with the newly adopted decision in respect of para. 2. They voted 132 MPs: 122, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u92	Article 6. A proposal from the MPs Aliosman Imamov, Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal came from the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Tsveta Karayancheva, Krasimir Tsipov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov, which was withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u93	Where the Commission does not support a proposal from a Member of the National Assembly, it should be read for the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u94	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal of the MPs Aliosman Imamov, Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid is the following in art. 6 the number sssssssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u95	This is about the secretaries of the National Assembly. Statements? Mr. Hamid has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we made this proposal, based on the constant practice in all parliaments so far, that the Secretaries in the National Assembly be two in a parliamentary group. I believe that there is no obstacle, despite the large number of parliamentary groups in the Forty-third National Assembly, to have them two each. They do not weigh on the budget or receive additional remuneration.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u97	Ten percent, and they're on the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u98	So it's nothing, 10% what's on the budget? (Replying and shouting from GERB Parliamentary Group: ♪ E-e-e-e-e! ♪ Colleagues, this is how we get into a situation where one of these secretaries, as per the importer's proposal, is on a business trip or on a hospital, is unable to have a secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u99	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kazak has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u100	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that we really do not absoluteise the call for savings when there is a parliamentary tradition, and it was from the very beginning of the National Assembly to have two secretaries of the National Assembly from a parliamentary group. For understandable reasons, you know, a certain MP, secretary, may happen to be absent for respectable reasons at some point, and naturally someone has to perform their functions. From this point of view, the legislator in all editions of the National Assembly has provided for two secretaries each. I call on you, however, to realise the design of this text and not to slave over unnecessary, how can I say, austerity considerations where they are insignificant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Aliosman Imamov, Chetin Kazak, Hamid Hamid, which the Commission does not support. They voted 145 MPs: 38, against 79, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial for art. 6 as under the draft Rules of Procedure, supported by the Commission. 135 MPs voted: 127, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u102	Article 7. A proposal came from the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Tsveta Karayancheva, Krasimir Tsipov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov, which was withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u103	Vote art. 7. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u104	"Chapter 3" "Guide of the National Assembly". The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u105	We vote on the name of Chapter Three. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. This proposal has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u106	Article 8. A proposal was made by the MPs Aliosman Imamov, Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid in art. 8, para. 1 t. Nine down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 4 is repealed; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 at the end shall be added the expression after consultation with the Administrative Board. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 at the end shall be added the expression on a proposal from the Administrative Board. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 at the end shall be added the expression on a proposal from the Administrative Board. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal came from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Iskren Veselinov, Julian Angelov, Valentinov Kasabov and Valentin Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There has been a proposal from MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The President of the National Assembly in the exercise of the powers under art. 77, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 78, p. 1 of the Constitution: 1. communicate and distribute the bills and other proposals submitted to the National Assembly between its committees according to their subject; 2. certify the content of the acts adopted by the National Assembly; 3. provide the necessary conditions for the activities of the committees of the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly; 4. lay down the rules on the internal order in the buildings of the National Assembly and the use of the material base after consultation with the Conference of Presidents; 5. organise the establishment, implementation and reporting of the budget of the National Assembly; 6. certify by its signature the stenographic diaries of the National Assembly meetings; 7. exercise control over the issue of the Official Journal, as well as other powers under the Law on the State Gazette; 8. determine the seats in the Chamber for the Members of Parliament, divided by parliamentary groups, for the members of the Council of Ministers, the President and the Vice-President of the Republic, in consultation with the Conference of Presidents; 9. after a vote may require information from the Secretaries of the National Assembly about the vote on foreign cards in voting outside the cases under art. 63, para. 3; 10. ensure and monitor compliance with these Rules; 11. approve the classification of the positions in the National Assembly and the state of the services thereto; 12. appoint and dismiss the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the officials to the President's office, as well as the staff to the chambers of the Vice-Presidents and the parliamentary groups on their proposal; 13. establish rules for the work of the administration of the National Assembly; 14. control the internal and external security of the National Assembly, which is placed under his authority; 15. appoint and release the Quaestors of the National Assembly; 16. performs other functions assigned to him by the Constitution, the laws and these Rules. (2) The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall assist the President and carry out the activities assigned by him. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall, in consultation with the Conference of Presidents, appoint by written order the Vice-Presidents who shall take part in the management of the National Assembly meetings for the relevant week. The seats of the Presidium shall be taken by the Vice-Presidents appointed by the order. (4) When the President of the National Assembly decides to entrust the Vice-Presidents with continuous implementation of activities under para. 1, it shall issue a written order to distribute these activities to each other. (5) In the absence of the President of the National Assembly, the Vice-President shall instruct one of the Vice-Presidents to replace him and, where this has not been done, he shall be replaced by the Vice-President, broadcast by the largest parliamentary party or coalition registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the last elections for MPs. (6) In the event of the Chair's participation in the deliberations on a matter, the meeting shall be chaired by a Vice-President appointed by him. It shall not lead the meeting before the vote or the conclusion of the discussion on this matter. (7) The President of the National Assembly may set up an Advisory Council on Law. The organisation, activity and composition of the Council shall be governed by rules established by the President of the National Assembly. Representatives of non-profit legal entities registered for public use may take part in the meetings of the Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u107	Thank you. The debate is open. Mr. Kazak's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u108	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Based on the fact that my proposal is thematic and is directly related to another proposal on the substance, which is further in the Rules of Procedure, I am making a procedural proposal that the discussion and vote on my proposal be postponed, that is, not to be voted on at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u109	Which text will that be after?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u110	Having voted on my proposal on the substance of the establishment of the Administrative Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u111	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural motion to postpone the vote until the time of clarification of the functions and powers further as a proposal in the Rules. They voted 152 MPs: 66, against 58, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We will continue with the debate under art. 8. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we have made a proposal. 9 of para. 1 of art. 8 drop out, based on the fact that after the introduction of biometrics in the vote, there is no way to vote with a foreign card anymore. However, the problem is in the first few days of the National Assembly when our data has not been entered yet. Although it is a matter of a few days, then we chose the National Assembly's leadership, we chose a government. In order not to confuse subsequent folk meetings, I will withdraw our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u113	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Any other MPs? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u114	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Now is a good reason to justify why we are opposed to reducing speaking time from five to three minutes. Now is my suggestion to justify, or should I comment on the rest of the text? Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, since you have rejected my proposal in connection with the Administrative Council, I would like to base it on several sentences. Those of you who have been in the previous editions of the National Assembly know that at the beginning of each Parliament I am making such a proposal. It is dictated by European experience in many European parliaments, including in the European Parliament there is such a body. Parliament is, in principle, a collective body composed of people with equal rights and obligations, unlike other state bodies, which are generally sole. Unfortunately, in the Bulgarian parliamentary tradition, the President of the National Assembly has had to be given extremely broad administrative powers regarding the organization of administration, management, budgeting and so on, and the MPs are left completely in isolation with regard to these powers. This thing is generally perceived as unacceptable in Europe, because the MPs must have the opportunity to monitor all these processes. They should not be silent letter and silent observers when certain powers are transferred to lower levels in the hierarchy of the National Assembly, such as the Secretary-General, the Chief of Staff and so on. This is why this body, which I have called the Administrative Council, is invented and is attended by MPs from all parliamentary groups. There to coordinate all decisions relating to the Rules of Procedure, other regulations governing the activities of the administration, which must first serve the Members of the National Assembly and the functioning of the institution. These things should be agreed on at the Administrative Board. The Conference of Presidents is not the place to do this, as you know that the Conference of Presidents covers the heads of parliamentary groups, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and there should in principle be agreed on the legislative programme, priorities of legislative activity, political issues, and not purely administrative, administrative-bits, which should be dealt with precisely by this collective body called the Administrative Board. Unfortunately, this proposal of mine has always been rejected, as every parliamentary majority has defended the powers of its broadcast President. I hope you'll at least listen to my arguments this time. Now regarding the rest of the text. Firstly, I do not agree with the supplement made with regard to the Advisory Council on Law, with the last sentence: Never in the meetings of this Advisory Council, when it existed, have there been any other persons involved other than its members who are always representatives of the legal academic community. These are law professors, specialists in certain areas of law. The place of legal persons is not a non-profit objective in the Advisory Council on Law, but in the relevant portfolio committees where they can make their views known when examining the specific bills in substance. The Advisory Council has always been an advisory body to the Chair. If the President decides, he may order him to conduct a legal analysis and, of a purely legal technical nature, to make proposals relating to the synchronization of the proposed bill with the legislation in force, these are the opinions which he has drawn up by this Advisory Council. It has never included and its aim has never been to protect certain interests, as advocated by non-governmental organisations. So I propose this last sentence of para. 7 down. I also propose in para. 6 in the second sentence, to replace the word....................................................................................................... It is not clear who is responsible whether it is the President or the Vice-President designated by him. It must be clear and firm that the subject is the President, he cannot lead the meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u116	Madam President, honourable Members! I will object to the version which GERB proposes and perceives the Temporary Commission in the text of para. 7. In essence, the new Rules will reproduce the opportunity given by the Rules in the Forty-second National Assembly to set up an Advisory Council on Laws. It is normal for the rules on which this Council will work, the organisation, its activities to be determined by order of the President of Parliament. The only commitment that the President has is in an appropriate way in these rules to provide for the participation of non-governmental organisations, civil organisations which, in the particular case, GERB considers restrictive, offering that the President may include such organisations only in relation to non-profit legal entities which are registered for public benefit activities and are listed in the Register of the Ministry of Justice respectively. I have developed detailed arguments during the meeting of the Temporary Commission. At the moment, I would like to draw attention to those MPs who will vote without being guided by the preliminary texts and want to hear arguments. In my opinion, and according to what we have seen so far, the availability of expertise on one matter or another is not related to the existence of registration in the Ministry of Justice. That is, an organisation may not be registered for public benefit activities and at the same time have the necessary experience, the necessary expertise on a subject, in a branch of law or in general in public life, so as to be useful to the Advisory Council on Law in this activity. Moreover, whether the Legal Advisory Council will only deal with an analysis of laws already introduced in Parliament, or whether the President will assign broader functions such as a follow-up impact assessment, or as assistance expertise in preparing draft laws in different branches of law, this is indeed within the mandate of the President of Parliament. In my opinion, it should not be limited to the participation and the possibility of the President to include any civil organisations in this phase of legislation. Moreover, this is actually the first step towards some restrictions that would be imposed on the participation of civil organisations in Parliament's work. We are about the procedures being public, open, with the maximum involvement of civil society, using its potential, of its expertise in all phases from the start of work on a bill until the impact assessment of its implementation. I insist that the text contained in the previous regulations remain in this paragraph and which has it as an importer's proposal, namely to look like this: "In the Council meetings, representatives of civil organisations can participate. " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Any other MPs? The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The proposal of the MPs Aliosman Imamov, Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid has been withdrawn. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Chetin Kazak as an addition to art. 8, para. 1, t. 5, 11 and 13, where the expression is added on a proposal from the Administrative Board. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 30, against 80, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u118	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I appeal again to you with an appeal to honourable Members, regardless of who the President of the National Assembly is, this proposal, as I said, I have done it many times because it aims to solve a systemic problem in the Bulgarian Parliament. In the Bulgarian Parliament, the spirit of the collective administration of the administration, of the functioning of the institution National Assembly should be restored, not in the likeness of other state bodies, which are by definition sole, to impose unreasonablely high powers on the President of the National Assembly in this matter. Neither the Constitution nor any other act shall give rise to such broad powers as go beyond its role to lead the meetings and represent the institution by the rules of the President. The functioning of the administration, the service of the Members of the National Assembly, the regulations relating to the internal order, the functioning...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u119	You're essentially speaking, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u120	... the institutions must be the result of the collective decision of representatives of all parliamentary groups, if we want some day to be solved including some long-unsolved problems because of the President's inability to deal with public and media pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u121	It's a rethink mode. They voted 142 MPs: for 28, against 87, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Procedure in the manner of Mr. Lazarov's conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u122	Madam President, honourable Members! Let us stick to the Rules and the constant practice that has been introduced, especially in the previous Forty-second National Assembly, and also in the previous National Assembly. Madam President, please very much do not allow the re-vote procedure to re-evolve and repeat those already made at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u123	You mean the re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u124	Yeah, the re-election procedure. If anyone disputes the outcome or has failed to vote, yes, but we have listened for several minutes again to the same thesis that we have already voted on once. Please very much demand that you comply with the Rules of Procedure of your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u125	I believe that the duty of respect is to all Members of the National Assembly, and not only to respect it. We move on to a further vote. Mr. Kazak made an offer under para. 6th sentence, second sentence. According to the Commission's report it sounds like this: Mr. Kazak proposes to be clearly discharged the subject and to record the person. We are voting on Mr. Kazak's editorial proposal, which really gives more clarity in the text. They voted 136 MPs: 131, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. In relation to para. 7, the final sentence has made suggestions. The first is for dropping the sentence: The Council meetings may include representatives of non-profit legal entities registered for public use. We are voting on Mr. Kazak's proposal, which I have just reproduced. 140 MPs voted: 41, against 72, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Manolova proposed the following version of this sentence: "In the meetings of the Council representatives of civil organisations can participate." I'm voting on Mrs. Manolova's proposal. They voted 133 MPs: 34, against 87, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting for the editorial of art. 8 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 115 against 8, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u126	Under art. 9 supposed by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) The President of the National Assembly shall be assisted by a Conference of Presidents, which shall be composed of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and by the Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups or their authorised alternates. (2) The Conference of Presidents shall: 1. hold consultations on the draft legislative programme of the National Assembly and on the agenda; 2. periodically, but not less than once a month, shall be informed of the implementation of the legislative programme and of the work of the committees on their assigned bills and draft decisions, declarations and addresses; 3. facilitate agreement in the event of conflicts between different parliamentary groups, as well as on procedural and organisational issues of the activities of the National Assembly. (3) The Conference of Presidents shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly at his initiative or at the request of one third of its members.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u127	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 9. They voted 133 MPs: 132 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u128	Under art. 10 supposed by the MPs Imamov, Kazak and Hamid: Art. 10, t. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. The Secretaries of the National Assembly shall: 1. inform the President of the presence of the Members of the National Assembly at the meetings and assist him in the verification of the quorum; 2. when voting with the computerised system outside the cases under art. 63, para. 3 assist in preventing and sanctioning foreign card voting; 3. in the event of a clear vote without electronic equipment, count and report to the President the outcome of the vote; 4. in the event of a secret vote, support the technical vote; 5. read the names of the Members of the National Assembly in a roll call vote; 6. verify and sign the stenographic minutes of the meetings at which they were on duty; 7. carry out other tasks assigned to them by the President related to the activities of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u129	The proposal of the MPs Imamov, Kazak and Hamid was withdrawn with the same motives as before under art. 8. Statements? I won't. Vote art. Ten on the commission proposal. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u130	Under art. 11 supposed by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. The Quaestors of the National Assembly: 1. carry out the orders of the President to maintain order in the Chamber and on the balconies thereto; 2. assist the Secretaries of the National Assembly in counting votes in open voting, in the technical organisation in secret voting and in voting with the computerised system outside the cases under art. 63, para. 3 assist them in preventing the vote by foreign card; 3. ensure that only MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and persons admitted by the National Assembly are present in the plenary; 4. carry out the orders of the President to maintain order in the building of the National Assembly, where the plenary sessions are held.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u131	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 11 on a proposal from the committee. They voted 126 MPs: 122, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u132	'Chapter 4'Parliamentary Groups'. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u133	We vote. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u134	Under art. A proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) Members of the National Assembly may form parliamentary groups. (2) The minimum number of MPs for the formation of a parliamentary group shall be 10. (3) When the number of MPs in a parliamentary group falls below the minimum, it shall cease to exist. (4) Members of a parliamentary group who ceased to exist shall become non-members of a parliamentary group and shall not be accepted as members of another parliamentary group and shall form a new parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u135	I'm opening the debate. Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u136	Honourable Members, Madam President! Due to the thematic majorities that have been formed in the Temporary Committee for Support or for the non-support of a proposal, it is very possible, and certainly will happen, texts that have been supported in the Temporary Commission, to fall into the plenary, and vice versa, to be supported here, so I allow myself to draw attention to one of our most important proposals, which please be supported, namely the proposal to put an end to the parliamentary nomination, namely the MPs who have left their parliamentary groups, not to be able to join others, to be unable to merge, divide parliamentary groups. There are several other texts in this direction that I will not justify, but it is important, anyway, that this proposal of BSP leaves Bulgaria to be supported and I hope that you will do so in plenary. [[Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u137	It is supported in para. Four on the committee report. [[Heckling]] Your proposal has been reproduced, Mrs. Manolova, which is also in the Rules of the Forty-First National Assembly. [[Noise in the hall, lines of the MP Maya Manolova away from the microphones.]] - What's the line? Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u138	Thank you, Madam President. You have largely expressed the line I had to make to Mrs. Manolova, but still to say. I kept thinking, Mrs. Manolova, that you would rewrite all kinds of merit to parliamentaryism, but here I strongly object to you taking credit for being an importer of the text ending the parliamentary nomination. And only to refresh your memory will I show you the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Forty-first National Assembly, in which the text of Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 5 we clearly, with the majority of GERB, when you were in opposition, have recorded that the MP, left or excluded from a parliamentary group becomes independent and cannot be accepted as a member of another parliamentary group, as well as the text of art. 17 that parliamentary groups of independent MPs could not be formed, and that existing parliamentary groups could be merged or divided, a text adopted in the mandate of the Forty-first National Assembly with the majority of GERB. Subsequently, with the mandate of the Forty-second National Assembly, this text has undergone catharsis and editing, but I will not dwell on it. I just want to point out to my fellow Members that we have always stated our position. And not only that, but we have defended it and this text was introduced in the Forty-first National Assembly on our proposal, that is, Mrs. Manolova, you should not take such great credit. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u139	Mrs. Atanasova, I expected you to tell me where the only difference was: in the version of the Forty-first National Assembly there was talk of an independent MP, and here it is proposed, in my opinion, a more appropriate option, which had it in the Forty-second National Assembly, it is correct to mention it: a non-member of a parliamentary group. That's the only difference. Any other lines? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I would like to best ask Mrs. Manolova and my colleagues from the BSP not to make such speeches because of some good proposals that have been discussed in committee and which have been received from several countries, thus trying to be heard by the BSP, and nothing can come to a vote against. [[Radio.]] Speaking of the specific paragraph, I would like to point out to you that this is actually the private case when it came to the fall of a parliamentary group under 10 and it has ceased to exist. There is also text in the existing Rules of Procedure in art. 14, para. 5, which is retained, which you will see later that it is also supported by the committee, which concerns other cases when a Member of the National Assembly is excluded, left and so on, and is still becoming non-member of a parliamentary group, so let's be correct. Just for the sake of good tone, let's move forward with the good proposals that we can all support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u141	Third line? I won't. A hole? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! Since you want us to go back in time, I have before me the Parliamentary Rules of the Forty-second National Assembly, the Forty-first National Assembly and the proposals that we have made in the previous Parliament. These proposals that I have made for inclusion in these Rules are one to one proposals that I had made for adoption in the Rules of the Forty-second National Assembly, only then they were rejected by the other parliamentary groups. One to one!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u143	But we weren't in the gym at the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u144	And if you want me to remind you of the practice that existed and had to make these proposals and changes to the Law on Political Parties, it was GERB's practice from the previous parliament to buy MPs with the money from their party subsidies [[GERB noise and lines]] , when they join other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u145	I thought you'd make a more meaningful duplicate, Mrs. Manolova, and you wouldn't use any other arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u146	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva! Abstain from giving me grades. [[GERB noise and lines]] Sitting on top of the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u147	Well, you're off the subject of the text that's being discussed. You want me to take your word for it?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u148	If you wish to make a line for me, you can do it, but as we will go back in time, the words remain, the words fly away. Here is the text, here are the proposals, here is the vote in the previous parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u149	Thank you. Any other MPs? Here you are, General Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u150	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to make a suggestion for a small editing, but before that I'm going to take the floor to compliment Mrs. Manolova: this blue jacket suits you terribly! [[Laughter, excitement.]] Otherwise, my proposal is serious....... in para..................................................................................... 1 to drop the words... The current text reads: "The People's Representatives can form parliamentary groups. In this way, the text means that the National Assembly can function without parliamentary groups, so I think the text should be: the Members of the National Assembly shall form parliamentary groups. For this reason, I ask you to put to the vote the drop of the text Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u151	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The line is Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Atanasov, perhaps your proposal is purely editorial, but we are further talking about non-members in the parliamentary groups, that is to say, your proposal for a text is that they are obliged, and we are developing the hypothesis in the following texts that there are also non-members in parliamentary groups. I propose that, for clarity's sake, remain the text that the Temporary Committee has adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u153	I'm withdrawing it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u154	The motion has been withdrawn. Thank you. Any other MPs? Mr. Kazak, you want a line? You might as well make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u155	I want to address Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Atanasov, when you are courteous, you should not pass by and that Mrs. Damyanova suits the raspberry red jacket. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u156	Is there any other MPs who want to take part in art. 12? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u157	Thank you, Madam President. I regret that the editorial proposal has been made... can be replaced by..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because if we are talking about the parliamentary groups, and we refer this imperative to the limits on how the parliamentary groups are formed, absolutely comprehensively listed, we close the circle and this legal opportunity can no longer refer to any independent MPs. It is a duty to form parliamentary groups as Parliament operates through parliamentary groups. The text should therefore be: the parliamentary groups shall be held and, with the automatic, direct correspondence of this version, with the limitations in the Rules closing the circle. This is, in my opinion, the correct editing, but I'm sorry that the proposal has been withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u158	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Atanasov's proposal has been withdrawn. There are no offers unsupported by importer. There are no editorial proposals on the text of the Commission which is being proposed to us, so I put to the vote art. 12, in the version of the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: for 137, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u159	Article 13? a proposal from the MPs Delchev and Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) Each parliamentary group shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a decision on its formation and a list of the management and of the members signed by all Members of the Group. (2) Parliamentary groups, their guides, and their changes shall be entered in a special register of the National Assembly. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall announce the registered parliamentary groups and their guides at a plenary session. In the event of a change in the composition of the parliamentary groups, it shall be communicated by the President of the National Assembly at a plenary session. (4) Permanent assistants of the parliamentary groups shall be appointed as members of the National Assembly. Their number shall be confirmed by the President, according to the number of parliamentary groups, in a ratio of 1:10 but not less than two per parliamentary group. Where the number of a parliamentary group is not a multiple of 10, the number of permanent assistants to the group shall be determined by rounding it to the larger number, multiple of 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u160	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 13, in the version of the Commission, which also reproduces the proposal, supported in principle by the MPs Delchev and Slavov. Vote 128 MPs: 117 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u161	Article 14 " is a proposal from Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) Every Member of the National Assembly may be a member of only one Parliamentary Group. (2) The conditions for the occurrence, membership and termination of membership, rights and obligations of Members shall be determined by the parliamentary group itself in accordance with the provisions of those Rules. (3) The Members of the National Assembly may leave the Parliamentary Group by submitting a written application to the Head of the Group and to the President of the National Assembly, which shall be communicated in plenary. (4) Upon leaving a parliamentary group or exclusion from its composition, the national representative shall lose his place in the Standing Committees as a representative of the relevant parliamentary group, in the delegations of the National Assembly and other elected positions in the National Assembly. (5) A Member of Parliament who has left or been expelled from a parliamentary group shall become a non-member of a parliamentary group and shall not be accepted as a member of another parliamentary group. (6) In the work of the parliamentary groups may participate with the right to an advisory vote and the members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u162	Statements? Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we must learn from both the good and the bad practices we have had. In this regard, I am making an editorial proposal in para. 5 of art. 14. I'll read the whole text to make it clear: A Member of the National Assembly who has resigned or excluded from a parliamentary group shall become a non-member of a parliamentary group and shall not be eligible for membership and may not be accepted as a member of another parliamentary group. As editing, I suggest it. I think the arguments are clear. Let us not return to some old parliaments, some practices in which, in my opinion, in previous debates, including when changing the Law on Political Parties, we had reached a consensus in the previous National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u164	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the editorial supplement Mr. Karadaye made in para. 5. I think it's clear. If I have to read one more time? The text is the same, and the words are inserted: "Can't claim membership and can't be accepted as a member of another parliamentary group. Isn't that right, Mr. Karadaye?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u166	Voting mode. They voted 127 MPs: 83 against 19, 25 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the full version of art. 14 together with the newly accepted editorial supplement in para. 5. 125 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u167	Proposal from the MPs Manolova, Georgiev and Popov. The Commission supports it in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 15: Art. 15. Members of Parliament who are not members of a parliamentary group may not form parliamentary groups. Existing parliamentary groups cannot be merged or divided.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u168	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 15 in the version of the Commission, which repeated the proposal of Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Georgiev and Mr. Popov. Please vote. They voted 130 MPs: 127, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u169	"Chapter 5" "Commises of the National Assembly." The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u170	We are voting on the name of Chapter 5 of the National Assembly. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u171	A proposal has been made under art. 15 by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 3 and 5 and does not support it in the rest of the article. 2, 4 and 6: "2." The Committee on Defence and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order shall be united. 4. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 18 to change to the Commission - Consumer protection, restriction of monopolies and interaction with civil society organizations and movements - and add a review of consumer protection issues. 6. To add and establish a new Committee on Budgetary Control. The Committee on Budgetary Control shall examine the Court of Auditors' reports and may request information on the implementation of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal to delete the Committee on Investment Design and does not support it in the rest of it. 15, para. 1 shall be deleted; in art. 15, para. 1, t. 6 the words "skilling" shall be deleted and after the words "sourism" shall be added. Proposal from the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: "2." A new t. is created. 3: The rest of the offer has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the draft, as para. 4 of art. 15 shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 39, para. 3. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The National Assembly shall elect permanent and temporary committees from its composition. (2) The Standing Committees of the National Assembly shall be: 1. Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; 2. Energy Committee; 3. Budget and Finance Committee; 4. Committee on Legal Affairs; 5. Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; 6. Committee on Foreign Policy; 7. Defence Committee; 8. Internal Security and Public Order Committee; 9. Committee on Agriculture and Food; 10. Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; 11. Committee on Education and Science; 12. Committee on Children, Youth and Sports; 13. Committee on Health; 14. Committee on the Environment and Water; 15. Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; 16. Committee on Culture and Media; 17. Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints; 18. Committee on Religions and Human Rights; 19. Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics; 20. Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; 21. Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act; 22. Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. (3) The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds shall report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the obligation of the Council of Ministers for prior information in its participation in the development and adoption of acts of the European Union. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds shall also draw up reports on other acts of the institutions of the European Union. (4) The National Assembly may make changes in the type, number and composition of the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u172	I'm opening the debate under art. 16. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as a whole, we support the proposed structure of the permanent parliamentary committees. We only have reservations about the last proposed permanent parliamentary committee on its justification, constitutionality, the objectives, the activity that this committee will carry out. What does the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission mean? Firstly, honourable Members, you know that the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is one of the state regulators in the relevant sphere of public life. In principle, by definition and under European law, it must be an independent state body and as such it is unacceptable to have another state body constantly dealing with control. Because, for us, the "observation" is actually a control over the activities of this committee. You know, the European Commission has repeatedly criticised Bulgaria for ensuring the independence of the energy regulator. You know that there are also proposals for this body to be broadcast in whole or in part by the National Assembly. Right now, as far as I know, it's not broadcast by the government. There is therefore criticism of this body regarding its independence. However, if these ideas are perceived, this body will by no means differ from the other bodies which, and the Constitution, are written what is the only possible constitutional way to monitor their activities by presenting annual reports to the National Assembly. For us, the establishment of such a committee, I repeat, is problematic. There are serious grounds and concerns about the constitutionality of this committee, and we disagree in principle against the establishment of such a body. If there are any arrangements within the governing majority concerning the management of this committee, that is another matter. However, if we proceed from a principle point of view, such a commission has no place in the Bulgarian Parliament. The Energy Commission has the opportunity to carry out such an activity ad hock when it considers that there is some problem. But to set up a special committee that only and only deals with this regulator, let us then set up a Committee for Monitoring the activities of the CEM, the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of the Court of Auditors, the Commission for Monitoring of the Activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and so on and so forth. Such a proposal is absolutely unprincipled, and I urge you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u174	- What's the line? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u175	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, Mr. Kazak, I always thought you were a prepared man. I was surprised by what you said: I think, I think. Don't think! DCKER is appointed by the Council of Ministers, meaning this is an authority which is broadcast by the executive. It is quite normal to provide for parliamentary control over this. Since we are talking about a sensitive sphere of public relations about electricity prices, which excites every Bulgarian citizen, every family, you know how society reacts in principle in every movement, in every oscillation of prices, it is reasonable to have such a parliamentary committee. Not to mention there was a fetus, there was a subcommittee in front of meetings, wasn't there?! In that case, I cannot understand your arguments, why is there no parliamentary control over an authority broadcast by the executive? After all, let us not quote here postulates, known for hundreds of years, that separation of authorities, except that it means some kind of autonomy, means mutual control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u176	Second line? It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Atanasov, unlike you, I do not claim to be of any substance, so I expressed some hesitation. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Your reply gives me reason to confirm my thesis that if we want to bring the status of this committee into full compliance with European requirements and to respond to the criticisms of the European Commission for many years on the status of this body, we really need to make it an independent state body, that is, not to be fully broadcast by the Council of Ministers, but to be brought into line with the status of an independent body, as the other independent state authorities should be broadcast in whole or in part by the National Assembly. This is how we can guarantee some control. But to set up a permanent committee that controls the regulator continuously, permanently, you turn the National Assembly into a second State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Is that what you want? Is that what you're after? The National Assembly to seize the functions of each... You know what the powers of this committee are. You want this committee to be the second place to discuss electricity prices, gas prices, water service prices? Is that what you want to create? To seize the powers of this committee and transfer them to the National Assembly. To turn the National Assembly into an energy convention. Is that what you want? If that's what you're after, withdraw it, because it's extreme, extremely untenable. There are opportunities for parliamentary control as for the other independent state authorities. You know, there's a permanent Energy Commission that could call the regulator, ask questions, exercise surveillance. However, creating a body that is constantly dealing with control of an independent regulator is unacceptable and, in my opinion, unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u178	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. For speech first at the time was Mr. Vesselinov, then Stanislav Ivanov, Mr. Slavov, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u179	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor on behalf of our group to motivate our desire to establish a permanent Tourism Commission, which will be in line with the new place that this industry has received with the creation of the Ministry of Tourism. In practice, without such a permanent committee, we will set a somewhat precedent for having a working ministry to which our structure in the legislative power does not correspond. Indeed, tourism is a fast-growing industry -- each year we proudly take into account the increased number of tourists, but overall, revenues do not have the same positive dynamics. I think we need to realize that tourism is not a 100% private industry. Private are hotels, complexes and so on, but the big owner is actually the state. It is about the ownership of the natural and cultural heritage, which is public. So we must act as an active legislator to create the potential that Bulgarian tourism has and to make full use of it. That is why I am maintaining my proposal to establish a permanent Committee on Tourism and I hope that our fellow Members will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u181	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, when I made this proposal, I was led by my belief that there really must be transparency in the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that there should be clarity on its decisions. What do I mean by that? First of all, the unspeakable colleague said that we would impose control. No, it's not about control, honourable Members, it's about monitoring. It is a question of transparency about the work and decisions taken, on the one hand, on the other hand the practice that existed in the previous National Assembly must be stopped. Members of the ruling majority then woke up with ideas about the possibility of falling the price of electricity, after which it turned out that they were already trying to launch them after the MPs for those who didn't know, but those who were doing it at that time certainly knew, and now that it was not within their powers, the MPs or the minister to increase or decrease the price of the current. These colleagues, as I said just now, were dealing with how much to cut the price, throwing some percentages, some numbers into the public space. It turned out after that that their portfolio minister disproved them and said that there was no such thing without any right to increase or reduce the price of electricity and it came to an insane reduction in the price of electricity, which had no argumentation at all. And to make the maximum, the feathers of the invoice were removed in the sense that it was broken and it was known what was paid for until then. At one point, all of these indicators were scaled up and this total amount was reduced by a certain percentage. This thing led to an obligation in NEC over 350 million. This is what happened in the previous parliament. In order that this does not happen and that the Bulgarian society does not become hostage to such pseudo-experts, who in most cases have launched their own opinion without being consulted with anyone, and have intervened harshly in the work of this state commission, we propose that there should be monitoring of the activities and decisions made by monitoring the work and the decisions of the committee, not control. That's what I'm saying again, it was basically when I made the proposal. I believe that it is justified and is in favor of the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, since you have received such supervisory functions from the National Assembly, why did you not accept our proposal that this National Assembly should be able to discuss and look at the submitted reports of independent regulators submitted in previous legislates? Why didn't you accept it, you gave this function to the National Assembly? In addition, this function is assigned to the National Assembly, not to a separate committee, which permanently supervises such an independent regulatory authority as is the relevant committee. Do not seize the competences of the National Assembly and transfer them to just one committee. I agree absolutely here with my colleague Kazak at least indeed this is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u184	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Mestan, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, honourable colleagues! My line is absolutely well-meaning, and if anyone else feels the address of my line, I wouldn't mind. You have conducted an analysis of the Commission's activities, which makes it clear that Bulgaria has a serious problem with regulators. Yes, I agree, there is a need to take all the necessary measures to move from quasi-regulation to a real regulation regime, but this is taking the path of deepening the principle of independence of regulators rather than subjugating them to the will of the legislative authority. And most importantly, because of which I have taken the floor and I want it to reflect correctly in the shorthand protocol, is that the fact that the election of this Commission by the executive does not make it an executive body to be subject to parliamentary control. It is indeed a matter of competence, I would say of simple competence, according to the principles of the Bulgarian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u186	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Any other lines? I won't. Hole, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start backwards. Dear Mr. Mestan, I agree with what you have said, but following your statement backwards, I would like to say that perhaps what you said in the end was not directed at me because this statement was made by another colleague, not me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u188	I made an appointment in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u189	I agree that we should move towards the independence of regulators, but I say again: a situation has been created in the country which has tense the situation in the country in such a way that many people felt cheated and had no view of what was happening. I say again that many media appearances have been given to many colleagues. Therefore, Mr. Mestan, we do not want to control the activity in any way, but simply monitor the work and decision making, which is right and I believe will in some way help reduce the tensions in society. Also not to feel cheated or not to feel that decisions are being made somewhere on which the fates of many people depend, and they in no way have any information about how this activity is carried out. That's why I made the proposal, and I think it's right. I hope that this proposal will somewhat soothe the Bulgarian society. Regarding what Mr Popov said, I would say that this Commission has a specific activity, affects a particular segment of the Bulgarian economy, which directly affects Bulgarian citizens and finds the greatest impact on this, in a sense, in a way to influence the entire Bulgarian society. Its decisions affect everyone, and I therefore believe that only she should be separated, and let everyone else remain to act as committees as they have been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a statement by the National Representative Petar Slavov "Coalition Reformation Block."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor to withdraw our proposal with my colleague Delchev in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. It is that we envisaged a separate Committee on Tourism, which practically also follows the structure of the Council of Ministers. However, in view of the fact that we have agreed on a committee to limit ourselves to 22 committees, so that each parliamentary group can have two representatives, that is to say, each parliamentary group has a representative in each committee. For this reason, I shall, in part, withdraw this proposal. I use that I have taken the floor to appeal to colleagues: let's stick to what is written in the Project we are voting on. This is about the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC, not about supervision, control or anything. We're talking about surveillance, which is something completely different, and I don't see any legal obstacle to accepting it like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u192	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, whatever you call this committee, it is clear the purpose. Dear colleagues and a colleague who spoke earlier, you, on the one hand, say that there were MPs who made some speeches, created unnecessary expectations and so on, but you, with the creation of this Commission, are creating even more prerequisites for the National Assembly to focus all public attention on these issues. Both the members of this Commission and the management and its chairman give them the institutional justification, reason to deal precisely with pricing, with opinions and opinions regarding pricing in the energy and water sectors, in general in the overall activity of the regulator. You want to attract all public attention and possibly dissatisfaction with the pricing from the energy and water sector to transfer it from the SEWRC to the National Assembly. Is that what you want?! Don't you realize the trouble you can bring to your head, and the entire National Assembly, with this thing?! The National Assembly cannot deal with everything and especially with the regulation of the energy and water sector. In Europe, it has been invented that this should be done by an independent regulator that regulates prices on market principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u194	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Slavov, you know very well that the permanent committees in the National Assembly should comply with the structure of the Council of Ministers. I ask: is this regulator part of the structure of the Council of Ministers? When the price of electricity rises, what will this committee say that it has not observed properly, most likely, the activities of the SEWRC.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u196	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Slavov, you are right by correcting absolutely all colleagues who have allowed themselves to extend the scope for the activities of this permanent committee. Because the real proposal is that it is for monitoring the activities of the SEWRC. My argument that we should support the establishment of such a committee is in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is written in the Constitution, for example, that the National Assembly hears and accepts the annual reports of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor General. Is the judiciary dependent on the National Assembly? No, right? She's not dependent on the Constitution, either. This case may also be applied to the Monitoring Commission of the SEWRC. Furthermore, the National Assembly also adopts reports on the activities of bodies which are wholly or partly elected by it and where this is provided for by law and perhaps you are right here about the analogy with certain bodies. But what prevents the National Assembly from using the information in the action of this committee for future legislative initiatives? I believe that, on the contrary, much more transparent will become the decisions of the SEWRC and I think that it is the National Assembly representing the entire Bulgarian society that will have access to the initiatives, decisions and facts about them. In this sense, Mr. Slavov, I fully support you, even though I replicate you, which is under a line to other colleagues. I'm sorry Mr. Mestan isn't in the room either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Before I give the floor for Mr. Slavov's duplicate, just to remind you that the line represents an objection to the substance of a final statement, and I will ask you when you make a reply, to really say what your objection is and not to support a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u199	I'll follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u200	Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u201	Thank you. In a nutshell. Mr. Kazak, Mr. Popov! What we in the Reformation bloc want is for there to be publicity and transparency in the work of regulators and for them to really be independent. Unfortunately, they are anything else at the moment, and as we see, especially in the eyes of society, not independent, and every decision they make is met with great suspicion. Such a committee would help in this respect to have more clarity and transparency about what is happening there and why certain decisions are being made. I don't know if you know yourself, but at the moment, as we delivered earlier from the Reformation Block information that there are heavy cases against Bulgaria in the field of energy, including one of the energy distribution companies for more than 1 billion. What exactly did he provide as information and how he protected the state's interest, I guess you don't know either. Unfortunately, I don't know that either. I want to know that the state interest is really protected and in these cases will do everything possible, God forbid the state loses them, because then the taxpayer will have to pay some monstrous sums. That is why we support the proposal for this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u202	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For speech there is the word the people representative Svetoslav Belemezov from Alternative for Bulgarian Revival.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we generally support the proposal on the structure of committees. What I would like to draw attention to is on page 1. 18 of the report, in two main directions. One is the direction in which out of six of our proposals three have been approved, namely, the most important thing in my opinion is to set up a Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. I am extremely pleased that our proposal has been approved in this direction, as it was a very good preamble for arguing about our next proposal, which will be discussed at a later stage to create an Ethical Code to be signed by each Member of the National Assembly. In general, the idea was also supported by the members of the committee, but the Ethical Code in question found direct application in a separate section in the form of the Ethical Rules. On the occasion of the three proposals that have not been approved, I would like to take my position only on one of them, namely on this point. 4. Once again, the proposal is on page 1. 18 and reads:................................................................................................ 18 which is the Commission for Synergy with Civil Organizations and Movements to change to the Committee for Consumer Protection, restriction of monopolies and interaction with civil organisations and movements. The committee's proposal, honourable Members, was not to set up such a separate committee, but rather to be set up as a subcommittee to the main permanent Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. My personal opinion is that the topic of monopolies and limiting them directly corresponds to consumer protection and directly corresponds to civil society organizations and movements. That is precisely why we, from our parliamentary group, believe that it is absolutely imperative that such a committee be set up separately so that there can be a very direct link between protecting the interests of consumers. With the protection of consumer interests, it aims to limit the influence of monopolies in general and, last but not least, to incorporate with civil society organizations and movements. If it is set up as a subcommittee, and precisely in the portfolio of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, we are extremely worried, honourable Members, that the Commission on the restriction of monopolies will operate only in the field of Economics. And you know that the restriction of monopolies, the protection of consumer interests and the interaction with civil society organizations and movements is the subject of a much wider aspect of issues that concern not only the sector.. The economy, but also many of the subsectors in Bulgarian economic life. For this reason, we appeal and hope that your support will be set up such a separate committee. Otherwise, my personal opinion and I distinguish myself from the opinion of our parliamentary group, but my personal opinion is that if we do not support such a proposal, it will be interpreted by the people outside that the Bulgarian Parliament does not have a clear mind and vision to fight the monopolies in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u204	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I can't see. The People's Representative Maya Manolova has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u205	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I will join in part in the discussions on the establishment of the new parliamentary Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I recall that in the previous Parliament, respectively in the previous Rules of Procedure, there was a similar subcommittee that monitored the activities of the SEWRC. What's the difference? This subcommittee was created on a money-based basis. The establishment of a permanent-acting committee to deal fully and only with the activities of the SEWRC will, in my opinion, lead to the goal of the government creating an alibi for the decisions that will be taken by the SEWRC. It is the easiest to transfer responsibility to the Permanent Parliamentary Commission, in which GERB and the ruling majority will have a full majority, and thus the regulator appointed by the Council of Ministers will wash his hands with the Parliamentary Commission. I therefore propose that it remain, that it be in the main text, such as a permanent subcommittee, a part of the Energy Commission established on a parietal basis. Thus, on the one hand, the activity of monitoring the work of the SEWRC will be able to be separated, on the other hand, no additional parliamentary committee will be set up, which will practically have limited functions, namely to monitor every action of the SEWRC. I join the proposal made by Mr. Belemezov and his reasoning on the topic of consumer protection and restriction of monopolies, confirming that from the work with civil organisations in the previous Parliament it is clear and undeniable that one of the main topics that excites citizens are monopolies. They far exceed the activity of the Economic Parliamentary Commission because monopolies have not only in the sector of the Economy, monopolies in energy, in the financial sector and in the activities of the Committee on Local Government and Regional Development, I mean water, steam, financial institutions, retail chains and so on. The concentration of all this activity to limit monopolies in a subcommittee to the Economic Commission will completely neglect this aspect of the work of the National Assembly. As I am aware from the debates in the Temporary Commission that GERB will not allow the topic of monopolies to be developed by the Commission for interaction with civil organisations, I am proposing that if Mr. Belemezov and ABB's proposal is not supported, instead of the Commission under No 22 "Observation of the activities of the SEWRC," a Commission for Monitoring the Activities of Consumer Protection and Restriction of Monopolys should be established. Its activities will include both the work of monitoring the activities of the ERPs, the water companies, the heating companies, the banking institutions, the retail chains and all the monopolies with which our society has grown. I would like to put here another question, which I expect Mrs. Atanasova or one of the government to answer, so that we do not spread over a dispute that may prove unnecessary and is merely termical, namely the use of the word "citizen organizations and movements" with non-governmental organisations. According to legal literature, non-governmental organizations suggest registration, more formal structure, appropriate guidance, decision-making, bank accounts, everything included in the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, although the law does not formally use the term "non-governmental organizations." If you, under the NGO, understand civil society organizations, well, I won't argue. You want something to change the rules, change it, but let's be clear! Dear reformers, you, for example, support the proposal to replace this term, but I would ask an informal organisation, such as the protest network, will it be able to participate in Parliament's work because it is not registered under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act? In fact, according to legal literature, it is not a non-governmental organization. I am interested in whether such an organisation, pressure groups, civil society organisations that arise spontaneously will be able to participate in Parliament's work, including in the portfolio committee?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u206	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mustafa Karadayi, Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, our position on the proposal to set up a Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has become clear, but I am making a formal proposal for this Commission to drop out of the proposed committees. Here we have understood and seen from now on the speakers on the subject and we are all united around the idea that we want there to be transparency in activity and clarity. Including colleagues entered the committee's activities and what it will do. Transparency in the work of the SEWRC, on the one hand, comes from the fact that their decisions are public. On the other hand, the fellow Members who have spoken have framed the activities of the possible future parliamentary committee in that they will listen and adopt reports. But for some reports to set up a permanent committee, it's not right. Moreover, on the other hand, the importer argues that the National Assembly and not only the National Assembly should not interfere directly with the work of the possible future committee. All these arguments lead me to make the formal proposal: this permanent committee to be dismissed, not to have one. However, the speeches have also led to such a conclusion, perhaps a doubt that this is perhaps part of the coalition agreement of the current government? Eventually the idea is this committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u208	The unwritten part.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u209	...to give the fourth coalition partner the Patriotic Front in whose platform and program there are suggestions of public intolerance to natural market mechanisms and principles that we, as liberals, cannot share. I hope that right-wing parties would not share such things either, but this is evident from the speeches so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u210	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. - What's the line? Mr. Lazarov, come in for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Karadaye! I would like to read to you, on the occasion of your speech, the Rules of the Forty-second National Assembly, which we are still working on. Issue 62 of the Official Journal of 12 July 2013, p. 19 "Commission on Human Rights and Citizens' Complaints; 20 "Commission for Combating Corruption and Conflict of Interest. Do I have to remind you that you did this? And the arguments that you said do not now apply to the establishment of the committee, but apply to what you have done. [[Single applause from GERB and the Reformation Bloc.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u212	Another line? I won't. Mr. Karadayi, come and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u213	Yes, just now, Mr. Lazarov, you have confirmed your doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u214	Thank you. To speak, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u215	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u216	You're giving up. Mr. Alexandrov from Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Atanasova! In particular, it is because we are currently looking at the committees, indeed a very serious subcommittee is recorded in the Rules, perhaps its place will be as a committee, namely control of monopolies. This is a topic that we of Ataka Party have been dealing with for years. The other thing that remains extremely incomprehensible is who wants the Monitoring Commission of the SEWRC, because on the same principle, if we allow such a commission in the Rules of Procedure, purely hypothetical lawyers to say whether we can allow a Monitoring Commission the activities of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria? Because if you allow it by GERB in this way, I will make a procedural proposal such as t. 23 to be recorded the monitoring committee of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. And right now, I'm gonna leave it to the chairman so you can put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u218	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to remind you that the exact same committee was held in the Forty-first, and in the Forty-second National Assembly, only then it was a subcommittee, not a commission, with the same title, with the same functions. So to suggest that this National Assembly is currently doing something that has not done before the National Assembly is incorrect. Did those subcommittees control the SEWRC, as you claim? Are there any solutions to prove that they were controlling or exerting any pressure on the SEWRC or something like that? Your statement is completely incorrect, Mr. Kazak, because you observed the activity, you were a Member of the National Assembly in forty-two and in the Forty-first National Assembly, as I recall. And you know and know the activities of the subcommittees for monitoring the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I will remind you that Mr. Glauchev was the chairman of this subcommittee in the 40th National Assembly. You can ask him what the committee has been up to if it hasn't been up to now. Mr. Krasimir Jankov was at the 40th National Assembly. I don't see him in the Chamber, but BSP colleagues can talk to him about the work of the committee. I am glad that each of the speakers is talking about the independence of the energy regulator, because it is high time that we really have an independent energy regulator. I would like to remind you again that in the Forty-first National Assembly with an importer the Council of Ministers was introduced a Bill for the selection of the composition of the SEWRC by the National Assembly. The time has not come for early parliamentary elections to adopt this bill. In the 40th National Assembly, I and my colleagues from GERB submitted the same bill. And I remind you again, fellow Members, that time has come, but you rejected it. Summer last year you voted against the election of commissioners in the SEWRC by the National Assembly. At the forty-third National Assembly, we will bring it back. And since I have heard that you have heard that the SEWRC is independent, I hope now that the entire Chamber will support this election of commissioners by the National Assembly. It is interesting why you reacted so emotionally in some statements regarding the SEWRC and tried to motivate why such a committee should not have. Perhaps because in this committee, the members of the committee will ask questions to the regulator about how a deficit of 1 billion has accumulated. lv. in an annual aspect over the last year. Why, even after the 10% increase in electricity, is the deficit still 620 million? Why did another composition of the regulator twice decrease the price of electricity last year, which certainly led to even greater deficits? So there will be questions that the regulator will have to answer and maybe they are bothering you. But this regulator is necessary at least because the SEWRC will certainly have proposals for changes, including regarding existing legislation. Because even re-negotiating the long-term contracts that are being talked about so much may require some changes in legislation. I would also like to remind you that the regulator, before taking its decision from the summer of this year, when maintaining the price of electricity unchanged, has reduced the price of long-term contracts and the electricity purchased from them, significantly by 20% the price and half the quantity. He also did the same with regard to green plants. He submitted letters to the European Commission, to which this government will have to answer and which will be a very difficult case for Bulgaria. There's nothing wrong with this committee. It's been here before. I do not see why anyone will vote against a committee in which there will really be, as Mr. Veselinov said, greater transparency in energy. And with regard to the Committee on Tourism, a proposal from colleagues Veselinov and Slavov, such a commission is not necessary in my opinion, because the main law in the field of tourism is the Law on Tourism and, in fact, in the Economic Commission, in the past four years in which I have surveillance, legislation in the field of tourism has been discussed and voted only several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u220	- What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, the Commission, which will monitor the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is part of the themes Energy? Is there a permanent committee that deals with energy? Since there is a good practice that you yourself mentioned in previous national meetings, a subcommittee can do this job. And you were pleased with the work of this subcommittee. Why is it necessary to have a permanent committee? The only answer to this question that I can think of is perhaps your coalition agreement. Because, once, the Bulgarian people pay a deputy prime minister a salary for the coalition policy that you are leading. And a second time, Parliament must also vote on permanent committees, a permanent composition, restrict the powers of the permanent Energy Commission, set up another committee, another permanent committee. In this sense, do we not restrict the powers of the permanent Energy Commission in the same way as you structure the committees?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Mrs. Maya Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u223	Dear Mr. Dobrev, I believe you're sincere if you answer two questions. Firstly, why is the principle of forming this committee changing? I would support the existence of a parliamentary subcommittee, and I said it in my speech, because on the most painful topic for Bulgarian citizens the price of electricity is good to have parliamentary supervision as well. But, I ask, why is the principle of structuring of this committee changing? In the previous parliament, it was the pariah. In the previous parliament was also the pariah? Why now do you want a proportional distribution in which obviously GERB and the most faithful among coalition partners will determine the behavior, issues, conclusions, conclusions, proposals, initiatives? And secondly, why does a subcommittee need to be ranked as a parliamentary committee, given that the arguments for the existence of the Energy Commission are summarized? Therefore, perhaps it was more useful and Mr. Glauchev answered the question of whether one such subcommittee could be filled with content. Here is really getting this assumption, which is probably reasonable, that you just need to find a position for one of the coalition partners. There is no other reasonable answer why a parliamentary subcommittee becomes a committee, and even less why is the principle of its structuring changing?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u224	You've divided the entire ministry into two.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u225	You do the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Third line, Mr. Kazak, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Dobrev, a little more be consistent in yours. On the one hand, you deny the need to have a Tourism Commission because, you see, all the matter was regulated in the Tourism Act. On the other hand, the matter related to the SEWRC is regulated only in the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u228	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u229	Almost entirely. And you now want to create a special for the SEWRC, to remove this matter, which is in principle in the Energy Commission and to create a special, new permanent committee. Besides, Mr. Dobrev, you've been a minister longer than a MP. Maybe you don't know the huge difference between a subcommittee and a permanent committee. The permanent committee must work constantly, to have activity. Every week there should be items on the agenda and so on. While the subcommittee can sporadically, from time to time, Adhok, when there is a problem, sit down. Nobody asks her to sit around all the time. What will you keep a permanent parliamentary committee working on to monitor the SEWRC? With what? I'm surprised at your thesis. I am convinced that your professional training should dictate the reverse thesis, but now it seems that coalition relations make you seek arguments and justify the indefensible. The Energy Committee may have a subcommittee again to deal with the SEWRC, but only until it becomes what you are proposing, because if you really do the SEWRC as it should be, as the European Commission requires, a genuine independent government regulator, it is unacceptable at all to have any similar body in parliament. As there is no such body to monitor others. Let the Communications Regulation Commission make a committee then or the Court of Auditors, as I told you. If you really want to fulfill your commitment to make SEWRC an independent state body [[the President signals that time has run out]] , broadcast in whole or in part by the National Assembly, it is even more unacceptable to make such a commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u230	That's when it's permissible, even more so.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u231	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Mr. Dobrev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I don't mind this committee being on a pariah principle. If you make such a proposal, I will personally support it, it is possible that other colleagues of mine will support it. So do it. Regarding whether or not it can be filled with content, we can ask the same question to a number of other committees, Mr Kazak. For example, do you know how often the Complaints and Petitions Committee meets? Is it every week because you said, "The Permanent Committee must meet every week?"
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u233	There's a lot of work there.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u234	A lot of work. Surely there are other committees. We can get a reference from the transcripts of the National Assembly and you will see that there are not only one, but more committees that do not meet each week. So time will tell. Such a subcommittee was in both the forty-two and the forty-first national assembly. As far as I know, she met regularly with hearings and contributed to transparency in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u235	You didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u236	I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u237	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. For the procedure Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal to extend the time to 5:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u239	Vote, please, the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 129 MPs: 108, against 13, abstention 8. The proposal to extend working hours has been accepted. Another procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we vote to end the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u241	Come back, Mrs. Manolova. Maya Manolova has the floor for a reverse proposal under a procedure made by Ms. Karayancheva. [[Reply from the MP Ramadan Atalay, away from the microphones.]] Are you gonna do it? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u242	If I may, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u243	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think there is a very cultural and intelligent debate on a problem that the National Assembly should solve. We will not put today out of this tribune those arguments in what way, how to regulate your coalition relations, but I ask you very much not to end the debate, because it is about energy, with 3 billion deficits. It is about the energy how and how to regulate the relationship between the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the Ministry and the National Assembly. If we find a solution to this issue today that is in the public interest, it would be more useful than ending the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u245	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. In fact, you have spoken in favour of setting up such a committee, as it is very important to regulate the relationship. [[Radio.]] I put to the vote the procedure taken by the Parliamentary Representative Tsveta Karayancheva to end the debates on this point. They voted 136 MPs: 100, against 29, abstention 7. The proposal to end the debates made by the Parliamentary Representative Tsveta Karayancheva has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u246	Procedure in the manner of conduct! [[Reply by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u247	Who wants to go first? Here you are, Mr. Kazak. You have doubts about the credibility of the outcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u248	Yes, I have doubts about the outcome and the justification of the result.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u249	Dignity!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u250	There is no such term in the Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u251	See when a challenge is made or a request to re-vote is made. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u252	Yeah, we want a re-vote. I challenge the outcome of the vote because it seems unfounded for a parliamentary majority, which claims transparency, openness in such a way to close the mouths of the MPs [[beeps, lines, screams on the right]] , to end the debate on an important problem. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Mr. Dobrev mentioned what was at stake. [[Noise and lines.]] It's about billions, so let's hear the whole argumentation from both sides and then decide whether or not we're going to run over the Constitution. Thank you. Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u253	I think such a question: whether or not the Constitution will be violated does not stand. We are revisiting Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva's proposal to end the debate. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 109, against 29, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. In the manner of conduct, Mrs. Ahmedova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing this procedure in the manner of conduct, because you allow yourself from a place to... In some way to comment on the speeches of the Members of the National Assembly, which is completely unacceptable, even more so when you do so, with a lot of malice. [[Noise in the hall, lines, calls to the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u255	Although I'm entitled to two minutes of explanation, I'm not going into my personality right now. I don't think that's a sign of good taste for you either. [[Lowered noise, lines.]] Procedure? What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is evident that the mood in the hall has increased. Apparently this is due to the fatigue we haven't interrupted since morning, and we're only on one break, so I'm doing a 30-minute rest procedure. Thank you. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u257	Thank you. You just took my mind off it. I was going to ask for a break, too, but we assume that you asked for it and I reserve the right to later. Thirty minutes rest at the request of the BSP Parliamentary Group. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u258	We are continuing the plenary session. A vote on art. 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We begin with proposals that have not been adopted by the Temporary Commission. The first is the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Petar Slavov. They pulled him out. Next is t. 2 of the proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Iskren Veselinov, Julian Angelov, Valentin Kasabov and Valentin Ivanov. This proposal is not accepted by c. 2 which provides for the establishment of a new Committee on Tourism and the others are withdrawn to the rest. Please vote on the proposal in its part, which is not supported by the Commission. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Abort the vote. Yes, you're right, Mrs. Manolova, I'm calling off the vote. There is a proposal from Mrs. Manolova, which she will now argue to you. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u259	Dear Mr. President, I suggest that in the unsupported part you submit separately the proposals of the individual Members of the National Assembly because some of them will be supported and some of them will not. I mean the unsupported by the Commission. First in order is the proposal of the MP Belemezov. Its proposals support those under point. 1, 3 and 5 and do not support those under point 3. 2, 4 and 6. Apply them separately, as for example the proposals under point 3. 2 et cetera. 4 will be supported by our parliamentary group and the proposal under point 4. 6 will not be supported, so let us vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u260	Those who aren't supported?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u261	But not together, because I'm setting an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u262	I get it, yeah. Let us use that you are on the stand, to say what is your proposal, to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u263	I suggested you. 22, or the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be replaced by the Committee for Monitoring the Consumer Protection and Restriction of Monopolys. This proposal at the time is after the proposal of the MP Belemezov and if his proposal is not accepted, this proposal will be voted on. In addition, since no one answered my question: why is the term "citizen organizations" being replaced with "non-governmental organisations" and whether, according to the importers of this change, it is synonymous, i.e. the terms which put the same concept into play, I formally propose that the term that has been used for the first time in the Rules should be replaced by the one that has been used up to this point "citizen organisations and movements."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u264	We voted on this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u265	That's t. 17 - replacing words with civil society organizations and movements. Moreover, if you are looking for a formal support in the texts of this terminology, it is contained in the texts of the importer, where the name is a civil society organisation and movement and I can very well rely on the offer by importer and make this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u266	Thank you. First, I suggest your proposal, which is essentially to drop the item. 22 of the committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u267	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u268	Yeah, I'm driving in a row and don't tell me what order to drive. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I'm voting to drop the item. 22, namely the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Anyone who agrees to drop this point on Mrs. Maya Manolova's proposal, please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] In order for the second to happen, you have to drop the first one. If you don't agree, tell me because I don't see any other way. Or should we put them next to each other? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Let's not get into dialogue. They voted 133 MPs: 25, against 104, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. The same proposal, in its pure form, had the people's representative Mustafa Karadayi. If you're holding, I can put it to the vote again, but I don't see the point. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov in his unsupported part of the Commission, which is what this is. 2, 4 and 6. Let's start with a t. 2. Who agrees with the Commission's proposal... [[Reply.]] Who, as wants to vote, of course, the Commission is of the opinion that Mr. Belemezov's proposal should not be accepted. 2. They voted 136 MPs: 10, against 93, abstention 33. Mr. Belemezov's proposal on t. 2 is not accepted. We vote on it. 4 which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u269	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u270	After the vote is over, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u271	[[ABB, from place]] : In the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u272	They voted 131 MPs: 29, against 62, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on it. 6 of the offer. 140 MPs voted: 32, against 44, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a re-vote, because from the way the vote was announced, for me personally, I am not speaking on behalf of the other Members, it was not clear what was voted on. It is voted for that the Commission is against the adoption of the proposal, or is it voted for the proposal to be adopted? For this reason, I ask for a re-vote and, before that, clearly indicate what we are voting for.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u274	It's obviously about the last point, because the others have passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u275	It's about points 2, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u276	You underestimate the intellect of the MPs. You probably want a reword on the t. 6. There's nothing else I can do right now but re-vote. 6. I'm voting on it. 6 By the way, there I was most vague, I did not say that the Commission did not support it. The Commission does not support those to whom it has not become clear. 6 of Mr. Belemezov's proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u277	You underestimate the intellect of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u278	Shut up!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u279	They voted 146 MPs: 35 against 63, abstention 48. The proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov in item. Six is not acceptable. I renew the vote, which was cancelled on the proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Iskren Veselinov, Julian Angelov, Valentinov Kasabov and Valentin Ivanov. It is not accepted by the Commission in its section. Two, and the rest of it is withdrawn. Please vote on the proposal. They voted 139 MPs: 35, against 23, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the main text proposed by the Commission in its version. Please vote. Vote 138 MPs: 123 against 8, abstention 7. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u280	Procedure. I have a proposal that you have been given in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u281	There's no way I'm putting it to the vote. If you can't handle the Constitution, you have lawyers in your group. Let them help you. [[Replication of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] There's another procedure in the Constitution. We're not doing any lectures. [[Replication of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] Moving on to the other term.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u282	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After all, I've made a procedural proposal. We can vote on it. Can you mention the exact text in the Constitution that says we can't monitor the activity? I think he can. There's plenty of lawyers here...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u285	No one's keeping you from watching as much as you want. There doesn't have to be a committee for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u286	Mr. Nenkov to come and say. After all, his father is a constitutional judge, if I'm not mistaken. To say in which text of the Constitution this contradicts, because by the same logic I do not know whether we can proceed with the SEWRC. Understand, the principle is exactly the same. We don't control, we observe. I don't know if the legal term is right enough. I'm not a lawyer, but I think this thing can be accepted. It is not normal for MPs who declare themselves transparent to say: "Watch it on TV. If you think this is going to be your way of running, that this is going to be your management model, come and claim it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u287	Turn on the TV and watch. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u288	I'll be brief again in my explanation. Indeed, ask the lawyers in your group to explain to you what the obstacle is. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u289	Dear colleagues, I am reporting to you. 16. A proposal came from the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Atanasova, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 4, item 2..................................................................................... One down. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications: 1. exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the security services; 2. adopt opinions on the budgets of the security services; 3. within 14 days of its election, it shall adopt internal rules for work which shall be validated by the National Assembly; 4. carry out the parliamentary control and monitoring of the procedures provided for in the Law on Special Intelligence and in the Law on Electronic Communications on Parliamentary Control and Monitoring of the Procedures under: (a) the authorisation, application and use of special means of intelligence, the storage and destruction of information obtained through them, as well as the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of special means of intelligence; (b) authorisation and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, as well as protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against unlawful access to such data. (2) The Commission shall submit to the National Assembly annually by 31 May a report on the activities carried out under para. 1, t. 4 which contains aggregated data on: 1. the authorisation, application and use of special means of intelligence, the storage and destruction of information obtained through them, as well as the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of special means of intelligence; 2. the checks and proposals carried out to improve the procedures for storing and processing the data under the Law on Electronic Communications. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall inform the President and the Prime Minister of the decisions and opinions of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u290	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u291	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to the MPs from GERB and to all other parliamentary groups and personally to Mrs. Desislava Atanasova with a question: why would an established parliamentary practice, namely the Security Services Control Commission, implement the SRS and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications be formed on a proportionate basis? Let me remind you that such a subcommittee was established during the management of GERB. It was structured on a parietal principle and did a little work on implementing some control over the use of the SRS and subsequently on changes in laws. In the previous parliament, this committee was also structured on a parietal principle. No other majority has worried so far about allowing Parliament to monitor the activities of using the SRS and control of the services of a parliamentary parliamentary committee even at the time when Mr. Tsvetanov was an interior minister. Now, when it comes to publicity and transparency, when in the new parliamentary majority are reformers who want control, who want publicity, who want transparency, who want openness in this process, they practically cripple parliamentary control over such an important activity. I am glad that Mr. Atanasov is here, I am glad that Martin Dimitrov is here, that he is Mr. Slavov, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Kanev people who have, some of them though short, and others have a longer personal history and biography related to having transparency and control over the security services. Answer me why do you support Dessislava Atanasova's proposal for the introduction of a proportionate principle in which GERB will have full control over the control over the activities of the services? Can a democrat, can a reformer, can a wrestler for transparency and for civil control want the majority to control itself by a majority in this committee. I expect an answer because during the interim parliamentary committee of GERB they did not bother to justify one or another proposal and especially those in which they gave way to established parliamentary principles and practices. I expect that the importer Desislava Atanasova will tell the plenary why he is making a proposal that removes the parietal principle and effectively restricts parliamentary control over the activities of the services and the SRS. I expect a response from the reformers who have had a cause: publicity, transparency and control over the services, to respond why do they support such a proposal? If the other parties in the ruling majority want, they can also justify their position, because this is certainly what the citizens are interested in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u293	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, you seem to be falling from the sky. Don't you understand that between what is said and what is done, there is a very big difference. What Democrats, what reformers are you talking about?! [[Replications and shouts from the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u294	Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, I must really be too naive. [[Speaks and shouts from GERB, PF and RB]] After I think that the agreement between the partners in the quadruple coalition has only a written part. Obviously, there is another part of the second, behind-the-scenes that would force reformers to vote against what they were defending until yesterday. Since I really don't see the point in informing Mr. Tsvetanov that you are changing the rules that even he was acting on, I think I should inform the Protest Network of the actions of those with whom she was on the street yesterday. [[Replications, noise, shouting from RB and GERB.]] That is why what you fought for yesterday in front of Parliament, you betrayed it the moment you entered Parliament and lined up on the parliamentary chairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. We are going to vote on the text of art. 17 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u297	Objection. You didn't say to vote on the import text. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u298	Please vote on the wording of art. 17 in the commission. They voted 132 MPs: for 94, against 37, abstention 1. The contents of art. 17 is accepted in the form presented to us by the committee. Revoting please, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u299	Dear Mr President, of course you violated the procedure and did not put to the vote the main import text, which implies a parietal principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u300	Mrs. Manolova, it's the opposite! You are accustomed to violating the procedure in the last Parliament. I did what I had to do. [[Applause on the right side of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u301	On the contrary, of course, Mrs. Atanasova did not have the valor to go out on the parliamentary stand and explain why she proposed the parietal principle...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u302	Is this the re-voting procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u303	You have a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u304	...to be replaced by a proportionate principle. Of course, Mrs. Atanasova...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u305	I'll take your word for it if you don't speak by procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u306	...he didn't have the courage to support... [[The President turns off the microphones. Announcements by GERB: "Bravo! " National Representative Maya Manolova wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u307	Please re-vote. Vote 139 MPs: 95, Against 41, abstention 3. The text was adopted by the commission. Someone had a desire for a procedure in the manner of conduct? I won't. Go on, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I'm reporting the texts of art. 17. A proposal came from the MPs Mitev, Veselinov, Angelov, Kasabov, Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal has been made by Desislava Atanasova, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 17, which becomes art. 18: Art. 18. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission is formed on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. The Commission shall be chaired alternately for one parliamentary session by representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting with the smallest parliamentary group. The Members of the National Assembly, who will chair the Committee, shall be appointed by the decision of the National Assembly, which shall elect the members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u310	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members. I declare that I withdraw the proposal made in accordance with art. 79, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u311	And what would the lyrics look like then?! [[Heckling]] Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u312	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the importers, I withdraw the proposal made on our part by making the following proposal for editing of the text, namely the current text, which is an importer, with the following wording, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, as we have agreed to name this committee in voting on the texts where the Standing Committees are governed, consists of two Members of Parliament's principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u313	I mean, we're just finishing the first sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u314	We're done with the first sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u315	Yes, thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u316	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, it is not particularly dignified the way of ordinary smékeries through violations of the Rules of Procedure. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] It is even clear to Mrs Atanasova that she cannot withdraw her own proposal, which is supported by the Commission and has entered the voting report. But so she wants to save herself the vote in plenary, as you just saved the vote on the parliamentary principle of the SANS Control Commission. Dear Reformers, you will soon again be able to state yourself on this subject. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]] So stay in the hall. With the withdrawal of this proposal, it also shines for those who do not follow carefully, the coalition agreement, as it is normal, and always has been, the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, Parliamentary Ethics and Anti-Corruption, to be on a parietal principle and the President to be on rotation. It's always been like this. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] That's parliamentary practice, yes. A proposal that has been submitted... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] These committees were divided into the previous parliament. The proposal, which has been tabled, gives opportunities to really have rotations between the parliamentary groups in the presidency of this committee, but obviously it has already been promised to one of the coalition partners, as was the case with the Permanent Commission for the SEWRC... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u317	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u318	Open your parliamentary rules if you want, I can help you from the time of the government, including GERB, in the previous parliament. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Open up and look! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u319	Do not engage in dialogue with the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u320	So we expect an explanation from the importers and from those supporting this proposal, why the Commission's anti-corruption and parliamentary ethics rotation principle, all the more so after the introduction of ethical rules on the behaviour of the MPs, the powers of this committee in relation to the new ethical rules, including the imposition of sanctions, including the uploading of the so-called "disgraceful list" of MPs who have been sanctioned by this committee, it is normal for it to be democratic enough and to work under the conditions of the Presidency of rotation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Here you go. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The label and the parliamentary rules require that I do not enter into a dialogue, so I will not enter into a dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u323	Thank you, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u324	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Manolova, I have carefully read the draft, which was parliamentary regulations for the organization and activities of the National Assembly in the previous Parliament. There is no rotating presidency there. Am I to understand that you are retreating from the position you had in the previous Parliament and now think that undemocraticly, on a Parisian principle, a committee involving an equal number of representatives from the various parliamentary groups will not be able to do its job? Moreover, what you say about the President, I keep thinking that the decisions of the committee are taken by a majority, not by a dictatorship of the President. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u325	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u326	My fellow Members, I am really looking forward to an answer on the substance: why, when the committee has been justified, protected and voted on the principle of rotation, are you giving it up in plenary? It is very reasonable to suspect that this is another promised committee on the Patriotic Front. To dispel these doubts that there is some agreement that is not unofficially signed between the four parties, vote for a more democratic principle. Moreover, indeed, the powers of this committee, according to the new parliamentary regulations, are much greater, in relation to and in detail to the spelling of ethical rules which each of the MPs must comply with. She has more powers, more power, more opportunities. You offer something democratic, we support it in the Temporary Commission, and after plenary you withdraw. Why? [[Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, perhaps to cheer up the situation in the House Mrs. Manolova to talk to you about democracy. I understand it as a joke, but I'll argue why. Because, honourable Members, in the Rules of the Fortyth National Assembly, this Commission was not on a parietal principle, within the framework of the Forty-second National Assembly, too. In addition, at the time, on a proposal from the fellow Members of the Left, the parital principle and the rotating Presidency were rejected. Then we remember, if we go back enough in the period when the committees were formed, and that is why in that majority a year and a half ago, supporting the Oresharski cabinet of BSP, DPS and Ataka, which committees received, it will become clear to us that this Commission has undergone transformations. Her chairman was initially Mr. Volen Siderov. But when society reacts to the fact that a man sitting under a plastic table beating people at airports attacking diplomatic officials [[crowd cheering and chirping]] , is Chairman of the Ethics Committee... precisely those who are talking today about democracy, conveniently divided the committee into two and Mr. Siderov ceased to exercise his right as Chairman of the Ethics Committee because it was unethical. This committee, if you pull out the transcripts, colleagues, will see how long it had not been for more than six months, even the opposition then requested the replacement of its chairman. And again, these Democrats on the left, led by Mrs. Manolova, conveniently hid it, but this time not under a white plastic table, but somewhere else. That is why I do not accept this particular lady talking to me about democracy and asking me questions of a similar nature from the parliamentary platform. Honourable Members of the Patriotic Front, honourable Members of the Reformation Block, do not pay attention to Mrs. Manolova. She's having a catharsis when she changes roles from the opposition governor. Thank you. [[Applause on the right. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u330	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Atanasova, in this broad speech, it didn't become clear when did you understand these things, just now, in the Chamber? It has not been clear why you are withdrawing this proposal. Get out there and say it clearly. Colleagues, those of you who are my friends on Facebook, to open my profile 2 hours ago I wrote on Facebook that GERB is about to give this committee to the Patriotic Front in connection with the tension that exists between them. [[GERB lines.]] It's not too complicated, look at him! Get out there and say it clearly. This is an element of political bargaining and do not speculate. This committee, when it was not rotating, has always given itself to the opposition. This requires both parliamentary and political ethics. And in the last parliament, this commission was given to the opposition. [[shouts: "E-e-e-e!" by GERB]] And it's a lie, and it's not true she didn't work for six months. [[Noise, excitement and lines from GERB.]] You owe the members of the committee an apology because you have told a lie from the parliamentary tribune and this is very easy to verify. Therefore, go out and say clearly: Yes, we are making political bargaining at the moment, in connection with the tensions surrounding the Deputy Minister of Defence and part of this deal has just been polished before the entire Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u331	Here's your next line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, we are talking a lot about ethics, however, I think it would be more ethical to inform your colleagues, partners from the Patriotic Front, who will obviously take over the Presidency of this Commission and the Monitoring Commission of the SEWRC, that by occupying this Presidency, it will not be long before they will have to respond, but not from this tribune, but out there to the pavements, to the people who will ask them why the price of electricity has risen, but then they will be alone, but their ethical partners from GERB will be inside and will say: "Wear your responsibility." Congratulations, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u333	Third line, Mr. Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u334	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Atanasova, I understand your disapproval that the Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interest Commission was headed by Volen Siderov at the 40th National Assembly. It was the most normal, and it's always the most normal thing to give this committee to the opposition. [[breathing loudly, exhilarating and speaking indistinctly]] , not those who rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u335	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u336	When you publish here, I see that you have become a judge who was who, who was not, is simply not correct because you are currently making some suggestions that are absolutely wrong. When we talk about the Forty-second National Assembly, let us not forget that in this particular committee headed by Mr. Siderov, there were signals about your husband, if I am not mistaken, and about public procurements for several million levs. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] This was processed on the committee, and if I'm not mistaken, it went to the D.A.'s office, and now you're telling me that she hadn't worked for six months. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] He worked to find out where a few million came from in your family. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u337	Here you go, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u339	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u340	Mr. Todorov first. Dear Mr. Todorov, I do not have the confidence that I am not in plenary, but in a courtroom and in the role of the judge. As far as I know, the immunity of the former chairman of this committee was requested precisely because of his scandalous behaviour in airports.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u341	His ethical behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u342	His ethical behavior, yes. Thanks, guys. Besides, there are really shorthands from committee meetings. There are also the incoming signals, their addressee and I would be curious to see what the prosecution has done with regard to the signal that has been sent for me. Regarding Mr. Popov's line. Thank you for the assessment you made to the coalition government and to the supporting parties the government of Mr. Borisov, but do not take wrong conclusions in view of the coalition, which only about two years ago was clenched with kisses, and then some disowned their warm feelings and became their most deadly enemies. [[BSP LB.]] In this regard, I will also recall Mr. Mestan's words yesterday that it is very unpleasant when one-armed men contradict each other. We're looking at this, and we're looking at allegations of the collapse of the coalition. [[DPS lines.]] Right now, my colleagues at the DPS are telling me it's not true. It's true! [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u343	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u344	Mr. Zafirov, your line, I'd say, was devoid of meaning to a large extent. It was about the work of the Ethics Committee and the Conflict of Interest Committee. It is certainly hoped that the newly formed Committee on Ethics and Conflict of Interest will have far more valuable meetings than those observed in the mandate of the Forty-second National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u345	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mrs. Maya Manolova for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u346	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, the Mahlenian tone you've been holding for me. [[shouts: "E-e-e" by GERB]] It's not a good argument. You really are able to bring down every debate. What we expected from you is to give a simple explanation: why do you propose that the principle of rotation, which has adopted the Temporary Commission, be abolished? Just answer why. To answer why you proposed to drop the parietal principle in the Commission for Control of the Services. Why? Otherwise, your reasoning about relations between other parliamentary groups, especially in the past tense, are not so interesting to share them from the parliamentary tribune. In my opinion, other relations between you and your coalition partners are more interesting than in the context of transparent and unworthy arrangements for positions in Parliament, including for me your relations with the Reformation bloc have been adulterated because I have just found out, my fellow reformers, that you have a new mentor, Mrs. Atanasova is your mentor. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u347	I don't understand, Mrs. Manolova, how it affects you personally what you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u348	The person who advises you who to listen to and who not to listen to, what to support and what not to.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u349	What do you personally find that concerns you in what you are talking about right now? Are you personally affected by new relations between the Reformation bloc and GERB? I can't understand you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u350	Is it possible for reformers to reach the point that Desislava Atanasova is their mentor and to give them a tone of votes and conduct in plenary? I would also advise you to be more careful when you talk about which MP is asked for immunity, who is not, and the prosecution against whom has taken account of the legal situation and the legal status of the President of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u351	Is that a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u352	More modestly on this subject! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u353	What do you want, Mr. Todorov? There's no way you could have a personal explanation for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u354	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u355	In the manner of conduct, but I'll see if it's in the manner of conduct. I'll take your word if it's not in the way of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u356	Since they mentioned my name, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u357	In the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u358	Mrs. Atanasova, I can't figure out what this demagogy is! You're talking about Mr. Tsatsarov asking for immunity... [[Noise and lines from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u359	I warned you that if it wasn't in the way of conduct, I would take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u360	And your boss Tsvetanov... [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Replies and cries from the Parliamentary Group of GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u361	Any other speeches? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u362	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In view of this circus we are watching today from the performers Mr. Kazak, Mrs. Manolova, thank God Mrs. Tasheva is gone, and that is a great relief. [[Strong noise and applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u363	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u364	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u365	End of debate and vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u366	On this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u367	On this point, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u368	A counteroffer? [[Comments from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u369	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a reverse proposal because I believe that the Bulgarian people have the right to witness and hear the shameful bargaining that is currently under way in the National Assembly. I appeal to my colleagues from the Patriotic Front, the majority of whom I know personally and deeply respect, and I call on them to come out on this stand, but to the A-team, not to release other speakers and to say, is there such a deal and will they have a permanent chair of this committee? Then I'll make sure everything we're talking about here isn't true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u370	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. We vote on the motion to end the debate, and then I will give the floor to a procedure in the manner of conduct. Which is for the proposal to put an end to the debate, please vote. Vote 148 MPs: 105, against 40, abstention 3. The motion to end the debate has been adopted. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct. With the same warning, if it is not in the manner of conduct, I will take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very clear, so I will address you directly and ask you to keep an eye on the order in this Chamber, to make actual remarks to the Members of the National Assembly when they are rude, disrespectful and show rude treatment to other Members of the National Assembly. I believe that under this code that Mrs. Atanasova has written, which has it a little further, you actually take the floor when this thing is done to not only us, but also to the colleagues who are on the right. My other remark to you is when you have something to say to the MPs, when you have an address, to ask you to do it here, from the parliamentary tribune, not from the stands above, as there are two vice-presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u372	Of course, I don't even intend to do an address, because I have no right to do that. I'll refer you back to the Constitution. If I make a statement, I'll be on the stand, of course. [[Replications of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] We shall vote on the wording of art. 18 with adjustments made after the volitions of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Desislava Atanasova. [[Strong noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP LB.]] Please come in for the editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will read you the text in art. 18: Art. 18. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission is formed on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u374	Thank you. We are voting on the text as read by the President of the Temporary Commission for drawing up the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: for 92, against 26, abstention 3. The text of art. 18 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u375	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u376	Revoting Mrs. Maya Manolova. In order not to accuse me of discrimination, I will warn you of the same thing if you do not justify why you want a re-vote, I will take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u377	Dear Mr. President, you have just done something unacceptable. You have allowed yourself a Member of Parliament, such as Mrs. Atanasova, to propose a text other than proposals from the Temporary Commission for drawing up the Rules. What is this procedure in which a Member of the National Assembly, who was the mentor of reformers, allows himself to propose a text to replace the text of the Temporary Commission? [[Noise and lines.]] Please vote very much, just like...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u378	It's a re-vote. [[(Reply from the Parliamentary Group of GERB, cries from BSP LB:]] The procedure was for re-voting. Vote 131 MPs: 92 against 36, abstention 3. Text accepted. Continue, please, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm reporting the text to art. 18. Proposal by the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov to change the norm of art. 18, para. 1, the Members of the National Assembly shall be given the opportunity to participate in three Standing Committees. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Tsveta Karayancheva, Krasimir Tsipov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 19: Art. 19. (1) Each Member of the National Assembly may be elected at most in two Standing Committees. (2) Each Member of the National Assembly may be elected President of only one Standing Committee. (3) The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly may not be elected in the management of the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u380	Statements? I won't. Do you have an editorial proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My proposal is in para. 3 before the word "Deputy" to be added to "President" and "President." Colleagues, the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly may not be elected in the management of the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u382	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 18 on a proposal from the Commission, which becomes art. 19 with the editorial proposal made by its President Dessislava Atanasova. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. I apologize, especially to the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. He has a proposal that is not supported by the Commission. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to vote first on his proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] His proposal is that the Members of the National Assembly should be entitled to participate in three committees. The Commission does not support it. They voted 133 MPs: 20, against 72, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on the final text proposed by Mrs. Atanasova with the amendment she made. They voted 133 MPs: 125, against 2, abstention 6. The text of art. Nineteen has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u383	Under art. 19 has a proposal from the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov. The proposal has been withdrawn in the part concerning the words "the Security Services Control Officer', the use and application of special intelligence means and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act and is supported in the rest of it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 20: Art. 20. (1) When determining the composition of the Standing Committees, the ratio between the number of parliamentary groups shall be maintained, except for the Standing Committee on Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 19. (2) The management of each Standing Committee shall consist of a Chair and up to 4 Vice-Presidents. The committee's management shall organise its work on the basis of the information entered into the committee. (3) The management and members of the Standing Committees shall be elected on a proposal from the Parliamentary Groups or from a Member of the National Assembly with a clear vote in full, unless an objection has been raised against any of the proposed candidates. (4) The Chair of the Committee shall direct the meetings and maintain contacts with the Chairs of the other committees and with the President of the National Assembly. (5) In the absence of the Chair, he shall authorise one of the Vice-Presidents to lead the committee meeting. In the absence of authorization, the President of the National Assembly shall authorise one of the Vice-Presidents to lead the meeting of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u384	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech will be very brief, in the form of a question. Fellow patriots, what has happened since the Temporary Committee meeting so far, so you're withdrawing your proposal? Did the patriotic part of you die? What happened? The welfare of the coalition is obviously more important than patriotism. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u386	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u387	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Popov, in a rather lengthy debate, we have put forward demanding, categorically, testically diverse questions and mainly the key question why. How many times have we asked you why?............. how many times have we asked you.............................................................................................................. we asked you......................................... He identified himself as a golden finger.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u388	What about the cactuses?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u389	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u390	I can't figure out what you're violating, terrorizing an entire parliamentary group with a presumption of some kind of guilt, of something they were going to do. We listened for an hour in the debate to this admission and its hot protection. Including I would like to say that it has now become clear and we understand why Volen Siderov was Chairman of the Commission for Conflict of Interests. Mr. President, I cannot understand why we have allowed, contrary to the Rules of Procedure and to all the demands of a fellow Member, to wave cases and documents of this committee, which he has no right to comment on?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u391	The minister was waving them around, the minister was reading the SRS here.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u392	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Another line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u393	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Very bad words have been spoken about us, all sorts of definitions, starting with throwing communists and reaching out to extreme fascists. We are a little numb, but we cannot accept in this House patriotism to be filled, infiltrated with negative content, we cannot accept patriotism to be stigma that we can never accept! Not because our name is Patriot Front, but because patriotism is the duty of every citizen of this republic to love, to work and, if necessary, to defend his country! [[Unique applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u394	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues from the Patriotic Front, one thing has been understood today, and a little before that the requested legal committee. You're definitely not fascists, you're definitely not communists, but you're extreme conformists. Congratulations! Dear colleague Kirilov, I do not know how long you have been appointed as a lawyer on the Patriotic Front and this retold with elements of reasoning what, when and how what happened does not suit you, especially you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u396	Thank you. Mrs. Manolova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u397	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we return the debate from general reasoning to specific texts. [[Change of Presidents, Claps from BSP LB.]] It has become clear to all who follow the text that the new parliamentary majority changes the principles for structuring the committees with its proposals. According to the importer's text, which means that in the previous parliament, three of the parliamentary committees are structured on a parietal principle. Three of all committees are on pariah, dear Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u398	We're on the next text, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u399	On your proposal, you did not wish to reply to me, the Commission for the Control of Services in the explicit texts that regulate its activity, is dropping the proposal for a parietal principle of structuring.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u400	We're in art now. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u401	In the case of a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union or a Read al. 1 and there you will see which are the committees which are structured on a parietal principle. Now look at the importer's proposal to see in the previous National Assembly that three of the committees were on parite. And now, on your suggestion, there is only one. You are removing the possibility, here already explicitly, that the Commission for Control of the Services should be on a parietal basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u402	We figured that out a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u403	Therefore, based on the text of the importer, I suggest that, according to the new texts, two more committees should be added, which should be on a parietal principle,............................ the proposal by importer, only that I bring it in line with the new numbering. These are also the Commission No 17 for working with civil society, and Commission No 21 for control of the security services and control of the SRS, and I add the new Monitoring Commission for the activities of the SEWRC, which will also be of the parith. According to which the text of para. 1 to sound: 17 p.m. 19, p. 21 et seq. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. By asking you, Madam President, my proposal for the Commission for Control of the Services and Special Intelligence Funds, which is a matter of fact. 21, subject to a separate vote. Thus, every MP can express his will, as Mr. Glauchev did not give me this opportunity, on the question of whether the Commission for Control of the Services should be on a parietal principle or should it be controlled by the ruling majority and mainly by GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u404	I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u405	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u406	- What's the line? Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u407	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u408	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u409	Madam President, honourable Members! I meant the applause with which you sent Mr. Glauchev. I, too, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, would like to thank him for his professional conduct. [[Applause from GERB.]] I wish Mrs. Tsacheva would continue to lead so professionally. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u410	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. I'll do my best. But seeing what time it is and what member we've reached, I think we'll have a meeting on Saturday. [[Radio, lines.]] Are there any other statements? Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u411	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, my speech is dictated by the fact that much of my fellow Members do not seem to have understood that we have already voted on the proportionate or parietal principle in relation to the permanent committees. I would like to draw attention to all colleagues that we are already in the texts of art. 19 which becomes Art. 20 and it shall determine the ratio between the number of parliamentary groups in the proportional distribution of seats and the parietal principle with regard to the Commission under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 19. These suggestions that some Members make to you from the parliamentary platform, I only attach to the emotions in this House and to the fact that they do not follow the text that we have already voted on and adopted. And even though some called me a mentor, I don't have the self-esteem of one. However, I draw your attention to the fact that the texts adopted are adopted by the plenary and not by me in a personal capacity. So, Madam President, I ask you not to put to the vote the proposals on the text of art. 20, para. 1 which came because they do not refer to the current text. Such texts have already been voted on and adopted by the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u412	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u413	I won't, I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u414	Mrs. Manolova wants the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u415	Madam President, honourable Members! For me, this issue is indeed extremely important, and I think also of all Members of Parliament, and of all citizens, on what principle will the Security Services Control Commission be structured. Therefore, please read the text in art. 17, which regulates the activities of this Commission. And there you will make sure that all that Mrs. Atanasova said is simply not true. How to structure the committees is settled in art. 20, which we're discussing right now. The general rule on the structuring of committees is given on a proportionate basis, as in para. 1 the exceptions are indicated. That is what I propose is, among the exceptions, to be the Commission for the Control of Services. 21. And I ask the chairman of the Temporary Committee before she deceives the House and you from the parliamentary tribune to get acquainted with the text of art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u416	Do I look deluded, Mrs. Manolova? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u417	There is no question of what is the principle on which this committee is structured.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u418	Thank you. Second line? A hole? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u419	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I am already under the impression that you do not really have the text that we are discussing at the moment and which we have already voted on in respect of art. 17, which becomes art. 18, and its contents. I will allow myself to read it for clarity not only to you, I hope that everyone else has understood what it is:................ to combat corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics is formed on a monetary principle... by two MPs from each parliamentary group. All the other committees.................... all the other
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u420	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u421	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other. I'm waiting for you guys to finish your dots so we can move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u422	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. It is clear to me that all other colleagues have understood the meaning of the text we are discussing, except for Mrs. Manolova. I can personally show her which text we're discussing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u423	Are there any other MPs who...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u424	What is spoken by the parliamentary tribune is not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u425	What has happened so far with the votes adopted are the number of committees, the type of committees, the general principle of allocation of the number of committees and in art. 18, which is the old text of art. 17 on a commission that becomes art. 18 was introduced an exception to the parietal principle. Essentially now in art. 20 Mrs. Manolova proposes that this exception be extended not only to the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, but also to the Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Isn't that right, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u426	Yeah, this is where it belongs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u427	And now I will put to a vote if I close the debates before then and there is no one else willing to speak so that we can proceed to the vote on your proposals. Are there any other wishes to participate in the discussion? I can't see. Debates closed. I put to the vote Mrs. Manolova's proposal, please be careful for a separate vote on the proposal for art. 20 on the committee report. I put to the vote this proposal of her for a split vote on para. 1 with one of the additional proposals. 135 MPs voted: 54, against 74, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial proposals for art. 20, para. 1 made by Mrs. Maya Manolova in plenary. Vote 134 MPs: 50, against 80, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the full version of art. 19 as an importer in his version on a commission which becomes art. 20. Vote art. 20 on the report. Vote 139 MPs: 106, against 24, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u428	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 20, which becomes art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u429	We vote. They voted 132 MPs: for 128, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u430	Under art. 21 has received a proposal from Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 21, which becomes Art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The President and Vice-Presidents of Standing Committees shall be released in advance: 1. on their application; 2. on the proposal of more than half of the members of the committee, if they are objectively unable to fulfil their obligations for a period of 6 months or for systematic over-rights or systematic failure to fulfil their obligations; 3. on a written proposal of the parliamentary group from whose quota they have been selected in the committee. (2) The President and Vice-Presidents of the Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the parliamentary group from whose quota they have been selected in the committee and upon termination of the parliamentary group. (3) The members of the Standing Committees shall be released in advance: 1. on their application; 2. on a written proposal from the parliamentary group from whose quota they have been selected in the committee. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1, para. 2 and para. 3, p. 1 the release shall be announced without discussing and voting, and in the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 and para. 3, p. 2 - by decision of the National Assembly. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 The parliamentary committee shall rule on the proposal by a majority of more than half of its members.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u431	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 21 by importer, which becomes art. 22 in the report of the Committee................................................................................................. 125 MPs voted: 119, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u432	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 22, which becomes Art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u433	We vote. They voted 123 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u434	Article 23? a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov: "To add and establish a new Committee on Budgetary Control, dropping the provisions laid down in art. 23, para. 2 and the wording of Article 2 has changed. 24, para. 1 - to relate to the Commission's activities. Also in art. Paragraph 24 shall be added. 2a, to read: The Committee for Budgetary Control shall examine the Court of Auditors' reports and may request information on the implementation of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 is created a new para. 4 with the following editing: To the permanent Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, a permanent subcommittee on demographic policy is set up. The subcommittee shall be formed on a parietal principle by two representatives from each parliamentary group. The subcommittee shall deliver an opinion on each draft law on its effects on demographic processes in the country. The rest of the committee's proposal is generally supported by the following. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: ..Alinea 3 to be amended as follows: The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism sets up a permanent subcommittee to monitor the activities in the field of consumer protection and the restriction of monopolies. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 23, which becomes art. 24: Art. 24. (1) Permanent committees may form subcommittees from their composition, as well as working groups. (2) The Committee on Budget and Finance shall establish a permanent subcommittee on public sector accountability. (3) The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall be set up a permanent subcommittee to monitor the activities in the field of consumer protection and the restriction of monopolies. (4) The Standing Committees may set up public councils by representatives of non-governmental organizations to ask them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u435	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u436	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor on behalf of the Patriot Front Group to confirm our desire to establish a subcommittee to deal with demographic policy. A few years ago, when we first posed the issue of worrying demographic trends, this was somewhat a topic in society. Everyone's talking about it today. Today we have a deputy prime minister in charge of demographic policy. We believe that we have a similar approach at the Ministry level. You know that there is a Council on Demographic Issues that gives opinions on the bills of the Council of Ministers in this regard. I think, repeating the practice of the Council of Ministers, we will make a contribution to a more systematic solution to demographic problems and this will benefit everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u437	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. There are no lines. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u438	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! We at the Bulgarian Democratic Center believe that one of the important challenges of the Forty-third National Assembly is precisely dealing with the demographic collapse. There's really been a demographic collapse! We will support the proposal on the Patriotic Front. We appeal to the other groups to support this proposal. We believe that the main task of this National Assembly should be the fight for raising birth rates, reducing mortality and solving all problems with unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u439	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? There are no lines to Mr. Kenov. For speech Prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u440	And we will support this proposal because it is a sign proposal. Until now, the National Assembly has talked only about demographic problems and no solution has been taken, but the establishment of such a committee does not solve the problems at all. She'll just disguise them and tell you why. All of you who are managing Bulgaria and who support governance must understand one thing: the neoliberal economy leads to demographic collapse in all countries. Demographic problems are all over Europe and the reason is the philosophy, the neoliberal philosophy that governs the economy and which led the world to this crisis. Growing is the word in which demographic success lies. Nothing will happen to five committees to create, while Bulgaria is being managed in this way. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u441	Any lines to Mr. Stanilov? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 126 MPs: 26, against 52, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. That's by t. 1 of their proposal to create a new para. 4 c art. 23. We are voting on a proposal that is not supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 53, against 20, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. For revoting, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u442	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Indeed Bulgaria is in a severe demographic crisis and we, as MPs, should make it possible to propose concrete measures to solve this problem if we do not want the Bulgarians to disappear in the next 50 years! And if we are really responsible, we will vote in such a way as to give Bulgaria the chance to have it for the next generations and Bulgarians to exist, so I call on you to vote and support the proposal on the Patriotic Front. I'm asking for a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u443	Before the vote I cannot give you the floor, then I will give you the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct. I am putting the proposal to re-vote in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 60, against 16, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. There's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u444	Madam President, Mr. Velchev did not just realize that we did not send with applause Mr. Glauchev, and we welcomed you with applause, so please do not copy the Bolshevik way of conducting. You interrupted that vote at 26 seconds. I have a feeling some of the MPs have failed to vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Therefore, I ask you to ask everyone to vote correctly, because unexpected results can also be obtained.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u445	Did you vote, Mr. Zafirov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u446	I voted, yes. I voted, but it occurred to me that you usually interrupt it on the 20th second. [[Noise and lines.]] And one more thing strikes me: when we want to see the vote in groups, in the middle of the results, as they flow, you say: "Thank you, and usually the last voters do not see them. It is now clear that everyone understood that the very respectable independent MP voted with you. And ABB colleagues usually vote with you, but let's still see this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u447	I think your group is only the privileged one who has a monitor in front of you and very carefully traces, so I wouldn't allow myself to limit your rights for a moment. As I can see, you've been well-informed enough about which group you voted on. I shall put to the vote art. 23 by importer, under the Project, which becomes art. 24 in the version of the Commission. Vote art. 24. They voted 130 MPs: 98, against 8, abstention 124. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Karayancheva for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u448	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I propose that we extend the working hours until 20:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u449	A counteroffer? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u450	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Let's not overwork the tired MPs anyway. [[Noise and lines.]] You know, tomorrow, the whole day is dedicated to this point, you've cancelled parliamentary control. There is still a Code of Labour and the MPs have labour rights. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u451	I shall put to the vote the proposal for an extension of the plenary session today until 20:00 p.m. Vote 134 MPs: 91, against 39, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u452	I'm reporting the text to art. 24 and the proposal received by colleagues Imamov, Kazak and Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal has been made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov in art. Paragraph 24 shall be added. 2 to read: The Court of Auditors shall review the Court of Auditors' reports and may request information on the implementation of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 25: Art. 25. (1) In relation to the activity of the subcommittee on public sector reporting and at the request of the Chair of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the chief authorising officer with a budget shall draw up reports on the implementation of certain budgets and programmes to be submitted to the subcommittee within the deadlines set out in the request. Reports on the implementation of non-financial accounts and funds may also be discussed in this order. (2) The Chair of the Court of Auditors and the Minister of Finance or their alternates and other persons shall take part in the meetings of the subcommittee at the invitation of the Chair of the subcommittee. (3) Following the discussion of the report, the Chair of the subcommittee shall draw up a report assessing the implementation of the budget to be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u453	Statements? There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov's proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 19 against 46, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the draft article. 24, which becomes Art. 25 in the version of the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u454	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Standing Committees shall examine bills, the annual programme under art. 114, draft decisions, declarations and addresses and other proposals distributed to them by the President of the National Assembly, draw up reports, proposals and opinions on them. (2) The Standing Committees shall evaluate the application and effectiveness of the laws. (3) The Standing Committees shall, in accordance with their subject-matter, carry out periodic controls on the extent of absorption and on the appropriate and lawful spending of funds and programmes of the European Union. (4) State authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration and citizens shall be obliged to provide, upon request, all information and documents as well as the opinions necessary for the activities of the Standing Committees. (5) At the request of one third of the members of the committee, the Chair shall be obliged to make an immediate request to the state authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration to attend a committee meeting. Those invited shall appear before the Commission and provide the information requested to them and respond to the questions referred to them within 7 days of the invitation or at the first regular meeting if it is after the expiry of those 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u455	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 26, in the version of the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u456	Article 26 "supposed by colleagues Delchev and Slavov, it has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 26, which becomes Art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u457	Vote art. 27. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u458	Article 27 " is a proposal from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 28: Art. 28. (1) The meetings of the Standing Committees shall be regular and extraordinary. (2) The agenda, periodicity and duration of committee meetings shall be determined by them. (3) The Standing Committee shall be convened at a meeting by its Chair on its initiative or at the request of at least one third of its members or by the President of the National Assembly, together with a draft agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u459	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 28. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u460	Under art. 28 a proposal has been made by the MP Belemezov. The Commission supports it. Proposal from MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov and others. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Atanasova and a group of MPs. In principle, the Commission supports the proposal, and on this point. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the draft, as para. 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are reflected in their systematic place in art. 30, a para. 11 in art. 31. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 29: Art. 29. (1) The meetings of the Standing Committees shall be open. By decision of the committee, its meeting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. (2) The committees may decide to close separate meetings. (3) The meetings of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications shall be closed. By decision of that committee, separate meetings may be opened. (4) By way of exception, the Standing Committees may hold open meetings outside the capital.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u461	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u462	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I propose, if deemed appropriate, that meetings on one occasion or another are broadcast on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u463	- What's the line? I won't. Any other suggestions? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Borislav Velikov's proposal to read the website instead of the website............................................................................................... We are voting on Mr. Veliv's proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 54, Against 7, abstention 36. The proposal is not accepted as the quorum is 65 votes. I shall put to the vote art. 29 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u464	Under art. 29 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the project which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 29 as para. 4. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 29, who becomes art. 30: Art. 30. (1) Citizens may attend the meetings of the committees subject to the access regime of the National Assembly and the order established in the committees. The list of persons present shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. (2) Representatives of trade union, consensus and branch organisations may present written opinions and may, on their initiative, attend the meetings of the committees and take part in discussions on the draft acts of the National Assembly concerned by their subject-matter, subject to the order established in the committees. The list of persons present, representatives of organisations, shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. The opinions shall be published on the website of the relevant committee on the website of the National Assembly. (3) Any member of a permanent committee may invite individuals or representatives of legal persons concerned with the matters concerned by the committee to participate in its meeting. The list of invited persons shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. (4) Accredited journalists and other journalists who are granted access may attend open meetings of the Standing Committees of the National Assembly. (5) Members of the National Assembly who are not members of the relevant committee may participate in all its meetings without the right to vote. (6) The participation of Members of the National Assembly in closed meetings of committees in which they are not members, documents and topics to which they have been acquainted shall be recorded in a special protocol and shall be signed by the same. (7) Those participating in the meetings of the committees shall comply with the requirements relating to the protection of classified information and information under the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as with information relating to the privacy and good name of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u465	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 30 on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 105, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u466	Under art. 30 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The Chairs of the Standing Committees shall announce in writing the agenda, the time and place of meetings of the designated seats in the National Assembly or against the signature of their members. The agenda for the regular meetings of the committees shall be announced at least three days before they are held, including by announcing them on the website of the National Assembly. In cases where extraordinary committee meetings are held, the agenda shall be announced at the same time as the deadline. (2) The Standing Committees shall meet when more than half of their members are present. If, after the time for the opening of the meeting, the quorum is not available, the committee may also meet with the composition available where it is not less than one third of all its members. (3) When discussing bills and other acts at committee meetings, the importer shall be heard. When the bill is submitted by the Council of Ministers, a member of the Council of Ministers or Deputy Minister shall be heard at the meeting. (4) The decisions of the Standing Committees shall be taken by a majority of those present.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u467	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u468	Thank you, Madam President. I am making an editorial proposal instead of a member of the Council of Ministers to be the relevant minister or deputy minister. Such a concept is not known in our Constitution as a member of the Council of Ministers. There's a recording of ministers. Everywhere in our Rules of Procedure, I think this needs to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u469	Can you just repeat which paragraph, which text...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u470	The last sentence of para. 3. To do so: the respective Minister or Deputy Minister shall be heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u471	You're shutting the Prime Minister out of control.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u472	Let it be added, then, to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u473	What are we going to do, Deputy Prime Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u474	They're ministers too.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u475	Is there a reverse opinion? [[Noise in the room.]] Is there actually a line? This is not a procedural proposal. I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Philip Popov's proposal to change the editing of para. 3. Vote 108 MPs: 27, against 74, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 31 in the Committee's version. 100 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u476	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 32. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 32, which becomes Art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u477	Anblok, we are voting for members with numbers 32 and 33 in the numbering of the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u478	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Iskren Veselinov, Julian Angelov, Valentinov Kasabov and Valentin Ivanov in art. 33 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." Alinea 1 is amended and acquired the following version: For the meetings of Standing Committees, a stenographic record shall be kept. It shall be signed by the Chair of the Committee and by the lead minutes and published within 7 days of the meeting of the Committee on the website of the National Assembly. 2. Alinea 2: For the meetings of the leading Committee on Laws, stenographic protocols shall be carried out. They shall be signed by the Chair of the Commission and by the lead minutes and published within 7 days of the meeting of the committee on the website of the National Assembly. 3. Alinea 3 becomes al. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal came in from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 33, which becomes Art. 34: Art. 34. (1) The meetings of the Standing Committees shall be accompanied by an abridged protocol, which shall mark all decisions taken. (2) Stenographic protocols shall be kept for the meetings of the committee responsible for the bills. They shall be signed by the Chair of the Commission and by the lead minutes and published within 7 days of the meeting of the committee on the website of the National Assembly, but before examining the report in plenary. (3) The minutes of the closed meetings of the Standing Committees shall have a special mode of storage, reporting and access according to the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u479	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 101 MPs: 15 against 32, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 34 in the commission. They voted 105 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u480	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 34, which becomes art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 35, which becomes art. 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u481	Vote art. Art. 35 and art. 36. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u482	A proposal from the National Representative Christian Vigenin in Chapter 5 to create a new art. 36 containing the following: Art. 36. (1) The National Assembly shall elect from its composition delegations for liaison with foreign parliaments. (2) Each Member of the National Assembly may be elected in a maximum of 3 delegations. (3) The management of each delegation shall consist of a Chair and up to 4 Vice-Presidents. The delegation's leadership is organizing her work. (4) When determining the management of the delegations, the ratio between the number of parliamentary groups shall be maintained. (5) The Chair of the delegation shall lead its meetings. In the absence of the Chair, he/she shall authorise one of the Vice-Presidents to lead the meetings. (6) Each Member of the National Assembly may be elected chairman of only one delegation. (7) Any Chair of a delegation may be heard by the Committee responsible for foreign affairs when an item concerning the delegation's competence is included on its agenda. (8) Delegations shall report their activities to the Chairman of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u483	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u484	My fellow Members, I would like very briefly to justify the proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin, which is supported by our parliamentary group. For the first time, it proposes to introduce rules on the functioning of parliamentary delegations. According to our parliamentary group, this would be good, as there will be more clarity, rules and principles in the work of these National Assembly bodies, which are currently not actually regulated by the Rules. Given that, for example, in terms of friendship groups, there is an opinion and suspicion of citizens that they enjoy as an opportunity for exotic trips and various excursions, it is good to regulate them by the Rules in order to be clear how they will function. I don't think I have to make any further arguments about this proposal of mine. It is necessary that the rules that exist in respect of all Parliament's bodies, including parliamentary delegations, including friendship groups, have their support in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u485	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote Mr. Vigenin's proposal to create a new art. 36, which the committee does not support. Vote 108 MPs: 30, against 62, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u486	"Chapter 6 "Communication with Civil Organizations and Movements ". The Commission supports the text of the project in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Chapter Six:
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u487	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u488	Honourable Members, Madam President! I will make this statement here regarding the name of the Commission for Interaction with NGOs, although in the following texts, the following articles and paragraphs describe in detail the possibility of participation of NGOs in Parliament's activities, in the work of the separate parliamentary committees on various draft laws. In my opinion, it is important to specify here what content is added to the concept of non-governmental organisations. The term used in the previous Staff Regulations was civil society organisations and movements and it was clear that, apart from the formally registered and formally structured organisations of the civil sector, all non-formal and spontaneous organizations, including ad hoc, pressure groups, committee initiatives, protesters associations, and Parliament's door was wide open to all citizens and civil organisations that wanted to participate, except in the work of this committee, but also in the whole legislative process. I will not argue about the term as long as the importers of the proposal state that they will put the same content into the term "non-governmental organisations" because in legal literature it is rather the understanding of non-governmental organisations that are formally registered, which have a corresponding structure, bodies, decision-making method, which would exclude not only from participation in this committee, but in the whole legislative process of other organisations that are structured ad hock. In this sense, the need for citizens' organizations and movements was also adopted, given the spontaneous activity of civil society in the last few years, both in February and then during the action of the previous Parliament, of the government supported by our mandate. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It is therefore important, in my view, that this clarification, which will be taken into account in the implementation of the Rules of Procedure. If the same content is put in, I do not object to non-governmental or civil organisations and movements, as long as we consider all informal, including civil society structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u489	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. There are no lines. There are no other MPs. I shall put to the vote the committee's proposal on the name of Chapter Six. They voted 104 MPs: 86, against 5, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, report another text, and then we'll take a break from 5:00 to 5:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u490	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov. 4 to add to the questions related to consumer protection, as well as to change the Commission for Consumer Protection, restriction of monopolies and interaction with civil society organisations and movements. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 37: Art. 37. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints: 1. engage in dialogue and interaction with representatives of non-governmental organisations, including by conducting public discussions on issues of significant public interest; carry out parliamentary and civil monitoring of the activities of state regulatory authorities through public discussions; the conclusions of the discussions shall be sent to the leading committees; 2. examine the proposals for referendums and civic initiatives under the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, as well as petitions under art. 45 of the Constitution; 3. examine complaints, signals and proposals of citizens under conditions and by order defined by the internal rules of the Commission; 4. performs the functions of a Standing Committee on Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u491	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Belemezov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 20, against 54, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 37 in the version of the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 97, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u492	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 37, which becomes Art. 38: Art. 38. A public council of representatives of non-governmental organisations shall be established to the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and complaints of citizens to consult the committee. The composition and manner of forming the council shall be determined by rules adopted by the committee. The rules are published on the website of the Committee on the website of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u493	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 38 on the committee report. They voted 102 MPs: 98, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u494	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 39: Art. 39. (1) The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints shall work on internal rules of work adopted by it in accordance with these Rules. The rules define the way of interaction with non-governmental organisations. (2) The meetings of the Committee shall be broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. (3) The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints shall present to the National Assembly a report on its activities every 6 months. The report shall be dealt with in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u495	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 39 on the committee report. Voted 103 MPs: 98, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We'll stop here until 5:30. Please be in the gym at exactly 5:30, so we can continue at this good pace. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u496	The hearing is ongoing. Please, Mrs. Atanasova, report to Art. 39, which becomes art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u497	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 39, which becomes art. 40: Art. 40. Representatives of non-governmental organisations may submit written opinions and may, on their initiative, attend the meetings of the committees and take part in the deliberations on the draft acts of the National Assembly in question concerning their subject-matter, subject to the order established in the committees. The list of persons present, representatives of organisations, shall form an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. Opinions shall be published on the website of the relevant committee on the website of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u498	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 40 on the committee report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u499	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 41: Art. 41. (1) Non-governmental organisations may submit written opinions on the bills to be examined by the leading committees. (2) The report of the committee responsible for the first vote shall also contain a summary of the opinions received by non-governmental organisations. (3) On the proposals submitted by MPs for a second vote, the Chair of the committee responsible may request an opinion from non-governmental organisations. (4) The opinions by non-governmental organisations shall be published on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly and shall be distributed to the members of the committee. (5) The committees shall respond to the proposals and complaints received by non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u500	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 41. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u501	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 41, which becomes art. 42: Art. 42. Representatives of non-governmental organisations may participate through a national representative in the parliamentary control under the terms and conditions of Chapter 9a, as well as attend the meetings of the parliamentary committees in hearings under Chapter 10a and in answering up-to-date oral questions in accordance with art. 27 subject to the access regime in the National Assembly. The list of persons present is an integral part of the minutes of the meeting. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Iskren Veselinov, Julian Angelov, Valentinov Kasabov and Valentin Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u502	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 42. Vote 113 MPs: 106, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u503	"The National Assembly's meetings and sessions. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 42, which becomes art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u504	We vote on the name of Chapter Seven, art. 43 and 44 on the Commission report. They voted 123 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u505	Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under art. 44. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 45: Art. 45. (1) Regular plenary sessions of the National Assembly shall be held on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from 9.00 to 14.00. By decision of the National Assembly, the meetings may be extended. (2) The National Assembly may change the time for regular meetings. (3) The National Assembly may decide to hold extraordinary meetings on a provisional agenda during a session, but outside the days under para. 1. Extraordinary meetings may be held at any time in the event of exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u506	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 45. They voted 124 MPs: for 123, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u507	Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under art. 45. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 46: Art. 46. (1) The meetings of the National Assembly shall be opened. (2) Persons who are not MPs or members of the Council of Ministers may be present by decision of the National Assembly and by order appointed by the President, taking the specially designated seats. During the meetings, they shall comply with the rules laid down and may speak only at the invitation of the President. (3) In the event of noise or disorder in the audience, the President shall put order through the Quaestors and may order individual citizens or all outsiders to be removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u508	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 46. They voted 127 MPs: 126 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u509	Proposal by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under art. 46, which is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 47: Art. 47. (1) The meetings of the National Assembly shall be closed when: 1. important state interests require this; 2. documents classified under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information shall be discussed. (2) The President of the National Assembly, one tenth of the Members of the National Assembly or the Council of Ministers may propose a closed session. (3) In the event of a proposal for a closed meeting, the President shall order all outsiders to leave the hall and the balconies, as well as to suspend the direct transmission to the media and broadcast over the Internet. After listening to the proposal's motives, the National Assembly discussed and voted on the proposal. In accordance with the outcome of the vote, the sitting shall continue as closed or open. (4) The discussions and minutes of the closed meeting shall be classified information and shall bind to the respective duties all Members of the National Assembly and other persons having access to them. (5) Decisions taken in closed session shall be made public.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u510	Vote art. 47. They voted 136 MPs: 132, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u511	Article 47. Proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov in art. 47, para. 1 in the first sentence to be added from the parliamentary TV channel (BNT). The broadcast signal shall be provided for free and free use. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 47, which becomes Art. 48: Art. 48. (1) The open meetings of the National Assembly shall be transmitted directly by the Bulgarian National Radio at a frequency defined by it, covering the territory of the whole country, with reports on the Bulgarian National Television, as well as by a parliamentary TV channel (BNT). The broadcast signal shall be provided for free and free use. The open meetings of the National Assembly are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. (2) Direct transmission of plenary sessions on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio shall be broadcast by decision of the National Assembly. (3) The plenary sessions in which parliamentary control is held shall be transmitted directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u512	There are no statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u513	There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u514	Here you are, Mr. Kazak. You and Mrs. Manolova are invoking each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u515	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to the colleagues of something that I have also shared in the Temporary Commission, namely that the Bulgarian National Radio does not currently fulfil the obligation that it has under the current Rules of Procedure, namely to direct the meetings of the National Assembly at a frequency that covers the territory of the whole country. The Bulgarian National Radio unfortunately broadcasts the meetings of the National Assembly only and only of the average waves, which is extremely outdated as technology, with extremely poor sound quality and is not caught in much of the country. The only frequency that was good and which until recently broadcasted National Radio was on the frequencies of Sofia Radio in the capital, which was very good. Unfortunately, this broadcast has also been canceled. Therefore, I would like to make a proposal for an addition to the text, if it is acceptable: The open meetings of the National Assembly are transmitted directly by the Bulgarian National Radio to a frequency defined by the National Assembly to add:.. ultracut waves..................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u516	Is there such a technical possibility, Mr. I said?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u517	To find! I know this could cause a problem. It, and television is not currently, as far as we understand, a technical opportunity to create an entirely new parliamentary channel, but at least efforts must be made in this direction by the National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u518	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u519	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am strongly opposed to such improvisations, because this is about a frequency resource which, for the record of Mr. Kazak, is quite dense. First of all, this could be impossible. Secondly, this could cost a lot of money. NURTS is a private institution, a private company.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u520	How much money?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u521	So I do not agree and recommend not to vote on such an addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u522	Second line? I won't. A hole? You won't use it. Do other MPs wish to speak on the proposed texts? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal to supplement para. 3 after the Bulgarian National Radio to be added to the Ultrasound Waves.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u523	No! At a certain frequency, after a defined frequency.... ultrashort
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u524	Please, a microphone so it can be recorded in the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u525	The open meetings of the National Assembly are to be transmitted directly by the Bulgarian National Radio to a specified frequency of ultrashort waves.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u526	I put to the vote the way the supplement was made. They voted 135 MPs: 34 against 37, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 48 on the Commission report. They voted 130 MPs: 117, against 5, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u527	Under art. A proposal has been made by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 48, which becomes art. 49. Dear colleagues, we have proposed an editorial of art. 48, para. 4 which concerns the verification of the quorum and the need for it in the plenary days. At a committee meeting, I had the opportunity, as well as the colleagues who made this proposal, to justify it and to edit it to a large extent and to refer only to meetings during parliamentary control. That is to say, when it is established that there is no quorum necessary in plenary, the President may or may terminate the meeting, suspend it for a certain period of time, in order to collect the necessary quorum, in the event of a continuation of the meeting, only when parliamentary scrutiny is carried out, but no votes are held and no acts are adopted. I think it is clear to all of us that in the Friday days of parliamentary control very often there are no more than 121 Members of the Parliament in plenary, which gives rise to an end to the sitting. However, this is the time, mainly when the opposition and the supporters of the government parties and MPs exercise their control over the Council of Ministers. They ask questions and receive answers, and through them also through the cameras of the Bulgarian national television and microphones of Bulgarian national radio and Bulgarian citizens. I therefore believe that we can vote on such a text when parliamentary scrutiny takes place on Fridays and there is no quorum for the sitting to continue. So that parliamentary control of the Council of Ministers is carried out. Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote this proposal of mine in this version that I have made.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u528	Do you have a written version?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u530	- What's the line? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u531	Honourable Members, Madam President! The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is not going to support this text. It is eloquent enough that it is not supported by the Temporary Parliamentary Commission, during which all parliamentary parties without GERB refrained from supporting such a proposal. It will practically legitimize the absence of lawmakers from work on Friday. You all know that there is no more irritating view for Bulgarian citizens than the empty plenary hall during Friday's control. It was very recently the election campaign, and I am sure that each of you has promised his constituents that he will be present on Friday when the ministers on important issues for people are asked. Yes, it is a fact that this state of plenary on Friday is the result of our common neglect of this problem, the lack of discipline and the lack of sufficient responsibility in each of us. But should this be encouraged? Should we say in the Parliamentary Rules that yes, there is no problem that every Member of the National Assembly should deal with any other matter other than those which are practically named to him as a Member of the National Assembly. You will see in the following texts that the presence of the MPs at the parliamentary meetings is their duty to attend their work five days a week. Well, well, how can people go to work five days a week for eight hours for 350 BGN, and the MPs are largely absent from the plenary sessions on Friday? [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB:]] I put aside the fact and how frequent are the hypotheses where a vote is sought and the plenary session is terminated. In my opinion, more important is the sign that Parliament gives with the vote on such a text. The sign we give to people means that we agree with the absence of MPs from work on Friday. For this reason we from Coalition BSP left Bulgaria and will not support this text. I very much hope that the other parliamentary groups, who have not become accomplices to this proposal, will also not support it in plenary. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u532	Please be quiet in the hall! The line, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u533	Madam President, honourable Members! When a person speaks from this tribune, he must be very careful what he says, because he should not contradict what he does. I agree that this is an obligation of each of us, but when 10 or 20% of your parliamentary group are present in the Chamber, provided that we are all now obliged to be present and to work and to claim that we are almost now doing so on Friday to justify our absence, this is evident. When these meetings of ours are delivered directly on the Bulgarian National Television, interestingly, then you are all here because you know that you are absent. But you're not here right now. Now you are also obliged to attend this meeting when voting. On Friday, there are people involved with their own questions. We can also stand here, and in every single parliament there are rooms with monitors and people can also monitor parliamentary control there. Even if they are here, they can't take part in the control because they know in advance what the questions are and who is asking the questions. Do not abuse the fact that you are so concerned about Parliament's work. We are all obliged to work in this Parliament. I repeat: if you were really so concerned that people should be present in the Chamber, first turn back and look at how many people in your sector are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u534	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u535	Mrs. Manolova, I have a feeling you're on autopilot. [[Laughter at GERB.]] It's good, it's brazen, it's populism, but stop it! You're six people on the cross and you can't vote on your proposals, you're sitting here developing populism and morality! [[Applause from GERB and the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u536	Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u537	Madam President, very briefly. I'll go further. Mrs. Manolova, I will personally observe on Friday because I will be here, your presence in the Chamber. I'll take procedures and let the citizens know if you're here or if you're not. [[Applause and laughter by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u538	A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u539	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm always careful what I say. For the time I'm an MP, I don't have any practical absences. [[heavy noise, laughter and shouting: "E-e-e-e-e!" by GERB and the Patriotic Front]] , for no reason and I am in my place of work, unlike you of GERB, who for months vacationed and were on the beaches instead of being at work.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u540	They were different on Varadero. Your coalition partner was Varadero's.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u541	Your men were on Varadero.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u542	How many of us are there right now? It can indeed be counted, especially if we request a quorum check to see the quadruple coalition how there are currently no 121 MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u543	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u544	We're standing here, we can check it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u545	I counted them, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u546	I suggest you, because unlike you, we do not wish to sabotage the plenary sessions, collect your votes from the electronic panel, the quadruple coalition, the ruling quadruple coalition, in order to determine if you have 121 people you need for the meeting. I do not want to check the quorum because I am not like you. I do not want to sabotage Parliament's work. But this does not mean that all proposals that are against the understanding of Bulgarian citizens should simply go by. It is 6:00 p.m. You want the extension of working hours to 20:00 p.m. Whether this is the normal way to adopt the rules on which Parliament works, I let the Bulgarian citizens judge. The fact is that when GERB appears, if it is opposition, does not come to work, sabotages parliament and destroys its authority. If it is in power, important laws are passed in the dark, necessarily in the dark, so that there is no debate, no objections, that things happen just like that, by the way. For the legalization of parliamentary absences from parliamentary control is your responsibility. I have promised another to my constituents: to be here at work, to participate in a debate; to protect their interests, to introduce bills. I keep my promise. As far as you're concerned, I'll let your constituents decide. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u547	Mrs. Dukova's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u548	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, it is not that I cannot speak on the substance and on the subjects in the Rules of Procedure, but I believe that this is not happening at the moment. The battle of the Titans never took place because one of them turned out to be just unnecessary. Secondly, these long and irrigation ditherms, which Mrs. Manolova considers to be her high responsibility, bear nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u549	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u550	The procedure is this: I ask you to stop these ditherms, because they are always something that is nothing...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u551	That's not possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u552	...and it's never related to the subject of substance. Second, really, Mrs. Manolova, we're working late. Why late? Once again, if you become each member three times, I think we'll sleep here. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Third, when you see the tribune, don't confuse it with a tribunal! [[BSP LB.]] Because it's been your practice for years. Frivolous talk on all multi-skilled topics...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u553	Turn to me, Mrs. Dukova. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u554	...doesn't make any contribution, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u555	You're arguing the way you're leading me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u556	I understand the nervousness of colleagues on the left. She's so clear. But they're about to fall apart. [[Laughter at GERB.]] But the way they're going, they can never get back together. Because what's happening...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u557	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u558	Where's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u559	...if you do not reduce the aggression of the tone and the manner of conduct, it is still the parliamentary tribune and the people, even if they do not look at us, the Lords of the air are too often entering. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]] THE PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u560	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u561	I've announced the next person to have the floor. Then I'll give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u562	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose an addition to para. 1 of art. 48, which will become art. 49, to the sentence the President shall open the meeting if more than half of the Members of the National Assembly are present to add the text with a hearing of the Chimna of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is a tradition in the Bulgarian municipal councils. I think that in the temple of the Bulgarian statehood, we should pay tribute to the Bulgarian anthem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u563	- What's the line? In the manner of keeping the word there is Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. I will say in advance that I share with you what you will say in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u564	Except I'm gonna extend it a little bit with the one sitting next to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u565	There's no procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u566	Yeah, it's just the way it is. Madam President, I would like to see a level playing field at the National Assembly meeting. I want, when this is broken, regardless of who, procedure and abuse it, and words are poured out, which have nothing to do with the type of speech we want, after we stop the microphone of some immediately, let us do it not only to the representatives of the opposition, but also to the representatives of the ruling coalition, I do not know triple, is it quadruple, is it, is it, does not matter, however much. Because you remember exactly in the previous sessions, before Mrs. Tsacheva sits in the chair, how they were rudely interrupted, in the middle, without even listening to the the the the thesis of the one who is speaking, because of the alleged violation of the procedure. Please, Mrs. Tsacheva, put us on equal footing. Don't be for one mother, another stepmother. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u567	I'll take an act from your statement, Mr. Ermenkov. To speak, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u568	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mrs. Atanasova, freely or inadvertently, failed to read the text that was not supported by the committee. You know that by the current Rules of Procedure, he should read it. She must be ashamed. It is a shame because it is clear from this text that it aims to legalise itself, to create an explicit opportunity for Parliament to sit without a quorum. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1 of the Constitution is clearly written down the powers of Parliament. It carries out legislative activity and exercises parliamentary control. Well, how parliamentary control will be exercised, one of the main activities of the National Assembly, when you aim to reject it, minimize it without a quorum. But in fact this is part of the package of measures of the new coalition against parliamentaryism as a whole, against publicity in parliamentary control, reducing time from 5 to 3 minutes and many other similar measures that you will encounter below in these Rules. My colleague Simeonov is right, yes, there should really be a temple of statehood here. However, from these texts behavior is not for a temple, colleague Simeonov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u569	Replices, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u570	Madam President, in addition to what has been said here, there should also be a temple of responsibility. Yes, there is talk in Parliament, but some only want to talk, and we are sent here by our constituents to pass laws. Because a lady who spoke, or other colleagues, neglected to say that last week the Temporary Commission, which was reviewing these regulations, was absent. She'd gone somewhere else, and I don't mean to say to make herself look good, to change because she had other appointments. And we had to go back and accept some texts, Mr. Popov. And with regard to the Constitution, I think that you attended a meeting of the Temporary Committee of inquiry and there were read the reasons, I think Mrs. Atanasova read them. It will again take the floor to read the amendments to the Constitution 2007, and a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court. I understand your point of reference, but we're here to work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u571	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u572	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Popov! And in the debates of the Temporary Committee, and in the entire previous Parliament, I have found this concern for you quite hypocritical. I have repeatedly developed this legislation in the absence of a quorum. The previous government was voted with votes below 120. This Parliament has repeatedly met in the absence of a quorum. I do not wish to make the reference only to 2007 who has ensured that the Constitutional Court's turning decision can sit so, but at least we must, by declaring care to the voters, honestly answer to them when, why, and in what cases, it is important to achieve the required quorum. This is the experience that we are doing with the proposed work of not manipulating, including with regard to the quorum. I do not wish to repeat speeches from the last Parliament, in which I made an analogy to you that not only municipal councils, commercial companies, all other collective entities make decisions in a credible quorum. If, in the case of the 2007 amendment, in the interpretation that we have by the Constitutional Court on this issue, let us acknowledge and state: the quorum is necessary to take the key decisions. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] I'm running out of time, so I'm limiting myself. Sorry, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u573	The line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u574	Madam President, honourable Members! I got up not for anything else, but because I think Mr. Popov didn't ask the right question. I do not agree with the way you asked it and put the problem that it was not read by the parliamentary tribune what is proposed and which is rejected. In Mrs. Atanasova's statement, which she did in relation to the report, she said there is a editing of what she has proposed, a new one which limits the absence of a quorum only to parliamentary control. But we never heard that edit. I hope, Mr. Popov, that you ask the right question in your ass: what exactly are we going to vote, which has not been accepted or which will be accepted, but know it as a text? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u575	The third line is yours. You have an opportunity for an asshole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u576	Thank you, Madam President. You are right, colleague Ermenkov, the text that has been rejected has not really been fully read. Some editorial proposal was made, which we could not understand, which was not presented in writing to the President of the National Assembly, although it was requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u577	What do you comment on then? I haven't read the book, but I don't like it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u578	Regarding the lines of other colleagues. Colleagues, when were you sincere when you asked for name checks or now? When were you sincere when you were pushing on these doors and stepping on the way out so that there would be no quorum and could not meet the National Assembly or now?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u579	A statement by Mr. Lazarov. Let Mrs. Atanasova read the text on the report not supported by the committee, because on this text she made an editorial amendment. [[Reply from the MP Dimitar Lazarov away from the microphones.]] Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u580	Mrs. Chairman! We were sincere last year when the 121 quorum opened the session when Prime Minister Oresharski and the Council of Ministers were to be elected. After the vote, you remained 120, gentlemen. We chose Mr. Oresharski and you stayed at 119. From this tribune I asked for a check of the quorum with me was 120. A check of the quorum has been refused and you chose Mr Oresharski's government in the absence of a quorum! We were sincere then. The meeting was then held by Mr. Mikov, who refused to check the quorum. Let's remember these things! Is that when you were sincere? You chose a government without a quorum, which is why it's been going on for so long, there's-there's not a year. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u581	- What's the line? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u582	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Lazarov, you know the old Latin legal maxim In most of the previous National Assembly, you had wrongful conduct because you deliberately tried to ruin the quorum. You left the gym on purpose, you didn't come in. And now you're making an argument out of it, you see, you've been sitting without a quorum! Your task, your duty as elected MPs is to be here and you also to participate in the maintenance, in the provision of the quorum, and not to abuse your duty to leave the Chamber on purpose, to fail the quorum. And then to look for an account of those who have remained why did they refuse a roll call, why did they meet without a quorum? So we should all strive not to abuse our right to request a roll call and to try to ruin the National Assembly meetings. And not to offer such texts, which will further facilitate meetings without a quorum. On the contrary, texts must remain as they are and stop with these practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u583	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u584	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lazarov, both from your speech and from the debate that is under way, it becomes clear how you intend to work in the Forty-third National Assembly. But I am obliged, using the opportunity to replicate you, to warn you that the patience of Bulgarian citizens is endless. [[Speaking from GERB: "E-e-e-e-e!."]] Your governance as a majority and as a government will be just as much as the tolerance of Bulgarian citizens. Keep that in mind. [[Radio, GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u585	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u586	Mrs. Chairman, I didn't intend to take the jacket in principle. We will work transparently, as we have transparently drawn up the government in front of the public's eyes. We're not gonna make any opaque decisions, and then we're gonna say we're going through catharsis. We will not work when the parliament is surrounded by the university to the temple-monument "St. Alexander Nevsky" and when people cannot pass! We will not work in such an environment, Mr. Yankov, as you worked for a year and a few days! Mr. Yankov, I assure you! And if you're talking about how people from civil society will participate, how we call them, how they participate in committees, and they couldn't go from one end of the square to the university because of the fences! Is this what civil society participation is about, or are you going through catharsis again after the elections that passed, the Bulgarian citizens showed you how you worked?! And we've been trusted so we don't have to work like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u587	A statement by Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u588	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start with this: I apologize for not reading the supported text. I'll read it at the end of my speech. Now get to the point. I would have accepted much of your arguments, colleagues, and I am even inclined as an importer, and I suppose the others would agree that we can withdraw this text even in this House, although you have also challenged it that it is right to do so. I would like to say, colleagues, to you all who have not been to the meetings of the Temporary Committee and have not heard our arguments in support of this text. The arguments in support of this text come from the fourth amendment of the Bulgarian Constitution, which, colleagues, is supported by colleagues from Coalition for Bulgaria in 2007, considered in the National Assembly, colleagues who are part of this majority in the Forty-second National Assembly, who have worked for a long time without quorum in different meetings. These are the President of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Mihail Mikov, the President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Mr. Lutvi Mestan and in the many others signed under the bill for amendment of the Constitution we also find the name of Mrs. Maya Manolova. You will all be surprised, but it has signed under motives, the text of which reads as follows: According to the changes relating to the functioning of the National Assembly is important and the proposed amendment of art. 81, para. 1 of the bill. It shall remove the quorum requirement throughout the duration of the parliamentary meetings. The reasons are always in the direction that it is not necessary for the parliamentary meetings to have 121 Members of Parliament in plenary and Mr Kirilov in this part in the form of a reply speaking within a few minutes by giving an example of the vote, including the government of Mr Oresharski under the necessary quorum. Not only did Mrs. Maya Manolova sign under those motives, but she also voted, colleagues. This is the sample. [[shows document]] Mrs. Maya Manolova voted three times in the 2007 vote because this is how the amendments to the Constitution are adopted, that is, a person who then exercised a legislative initiative and has made such a change not just to the Rules of the National Assembly, but to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, at the moment from the parliamentary tribune to be a moral mentor for who, what rules he creates so as not to go to work, at least I think it is unacceptable. I won't say another word. Therefore, colleagues, save your comments on who is sincere, who is not sincere, how parliament works when it manages GERB, because fortunately the parliament can work until 18.30, it is already dark out, but does not work in backroom, does not work in darkness, works under rules Forty-third National Assembly, Mrs. Manolova! Parliament works and people have free access, including entering it, not surrounded by metal fences and police cordons! [[Heckling]] Yeah, someone's here discussing the possibility of that ever happening. Yeah, it's possible, and, God forbid it happens, but, guys, right now, it's a different subject. And I think it is not right to hold a similar tone to the MPs who propose a text that regulates the time for parliamentary control, and in the context of taking place at the Council of Ministers... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u589	However, this text, which is not supported by the committee, is required to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u590	Of course, Madam President. Art. 48, para. 4 is amended as follows: When, in the case of the verification under para. 3 It is established that in plenary there is no necessary quorum, the President of the National Assembly may continue the meeting, terminate it or interrupt it for a certain period of time to gather the necessary quorum. In cases of continuation of the meeting in the absence of a quorum in plenary, debates or parliamentary controls may be held, but no votes may be held and acts adopted. In cases of interruption, the President may resume the meeting, but no later than one hour within the working time, if the new inspection is in place.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u591	And now what do you suggest? This is a written proposal. Mr. Popov didn't see you introduce him. Read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u592	I propose an al. 4 shall have the following content: When, in the case of the verification under para. 3 It is established that in plenary there is no necessary quorum, the President of the National Assembly may continue the meeting, terminate it or interrupt it for a certain time to gather the necessary quorum. Only parliamentary controls may be held in plenary in the absence of a quorum, but no votes may be held and acts may be adopted. In cases of interruption, the President may resume the meeting, but no later than one hour, within the working time, if the new inspection is in place.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u593	A line from Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u594	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I'm taking a line, not a personal explanation, to give you an opportunity to answer if you wish. I tried during the meeting of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission to explain to you the difference between the Constitution and the Parliamentary Rules and why this amendment was imposed in the Constitution, but we did not put it in the Parliamentary Rules, but you took the floor away for me. Since another is holding the meeting here, I will be able to explain to you that if this amendment had not been made in the Constitution, all the acts adopted by Parliament and the 40th National Assembly and the Assembly in which GERB had a majority in both the previous Parliament and in this, including today's sitting, would have been unconstitutional. We will now do an experiment and take into account during this vote how many votes this text will be adopted. How many votes? Will there be 121, will there be 80, will there be 60, will there really be paradoxes in parliament to be adopted by 60-70-80 votes? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Will there be constitutional meetings of parliament? We made this amendment in 2007, but, notice, we didn't touch the parliamentary regulations. We didn't do it in the previous parliament when we had a problem with the quorum when you were away for months. It was simple to vote on this amendment and not have a problem, but I never thought that Mr. Lazarov, who repeatedly repeated how Oresharski was elected with 121 quorum, how many votes that were then 120, then 119, would sign a proposal to legitimize the absence of a quorum in this Parliament, in which you have a majority. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u595	Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u596	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, the reply is in the following sense: after the detailed analysis why didn't you specify who created the rule, when was the rule for procrastination of the regulations created? [[(GERB calls: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u597	Is there anyone who wants a third line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u598	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, your reply recalls the times in which the Rules were amended in the framework of the forty-second National Assembly and very often the chairman of the plenary sittings with a postponed vote, as you have expressed yourself, was before the speech of our colleague Manolova. To Mrs. Manolova, I would like to reply: Mrs. Manolova, I hope that if I repeat once again that this text concerns only the conduct of parliamentary control, and it is written so, and not the votes of acts and decisions of the National Assembly can be held in the absence of one, if you have not understood, because I remain convinced that you are speaking on another subject, to read it again? I see no point in having such a debate, since all the other Members are aware of it, they have seen the text which has been given to us in advance and we are discussing only this.................................why should the National Assembly meet with less than 121 MPs in Friday's parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u599	And I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u600	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There have been two cardinal circles of issues that are in common with each other, but I want to focus on the proposal that is being made and the common question of the quorum. There are no proposals for a change to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure. The provisions are identical to those who were in the Rules of the Forty-Second National Assembly. What we have spent enough time on concerns only the consequences in cases where a roll call is requested and it has been found that there is no quorum in the plenary. Until now, on the current and tonight's paragraph, the possibilities for the chair shall be two, and they shall be very clear: either the meeting shall be suspended and the next meeting shall be announced on the following day, or the following Wednesday; or shall be interrupted, and may resume within one hour. In any case, when it comes to voting on acts of the National Assembly which require a quorum and a majority under the Constitution, there may be no other possibility for the President of the National Assembly in the absence of a quorum, except to interrupt or terminate..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The new version, which is available for para. 4, refers only to control because parliamentary control is not an act of the collective body of the National Assembly to a separate minister, prime minister or deputy prime minister, but is an act of the individual MP who has asked a question or a question and expects a response from the representatives of the executive power. The Constitution does not require, in this case, a quorum in the plenary. Is there one of you who believes that Friday's control is possible with the presence of 121 MPs, on questions and answers to them, which are relevant to specific, relevant to a small municipality or larger municipality, or a comprehensive policy in questions? There is no such requirement under the Constitution, colleagues. Because of this, colleagues from GERB offer a new opportunity for the President of the National Assembly if we are in control of the executive, not to interrupt the meeting, not to suspend the meeting, but to continue the control. Where do you see a violation of the Constitution here? There's been so much talk. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Who said anything about a violation like that? The only thing that is proposed, apart from the undisputed possibilities for the meeting to be suspended or to be interrupted, which is undeniable, I strongly defend it in the hypotheses when the acts of Parliament are voted, but when it comes to Friday control, it is incomprehensible to me to talk about the presence of a quorum of the plenary of the National Assembly when an act of a separate MP is carried out. I don't know what commitments you made during the election campaign. In every situation, yes, many questions have been asked about the empty room. In relation to the plenary sessions, their legislative part is unacceptable, but with regard to control, I say again, control is an act of a separate MP to a separate minister, not of the collective body National Assembly. Only then is this new version of para. 4 which is offered by colleagues. I hope to be as simple as possible to explain clearly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u601	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u602	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, it is not true that only in this case concerns the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u603	She changed it, except for parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u604	Is it just parliamentary control? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u605	She changed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u606	Okay, but even during parliamentary control, Mrs. Tsacheva, you know that there are hypotheses where there can be debates and a decision can be voted on, so there are hypotheses in hypotheses. I'm asking you the question: why do you need all this? What was the problem with parliamentary control once? You know very well that verification of the quorum and possible failure of the sitting can only be requested before the upcoming vote. There are no votes in parliamentary control by definition and it has never failed because of a lack of quorum. [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the MP Mihail Mikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u607	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u608	Yes, except when there was a deliberate, systematic absence of a large parliamentary group of the National Assembly meetings. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u609	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Mr. Mikov, come in for a second line. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, I wouldn't mind if some other MP shared these motives. I'll read it to you. 62 of the Constitution, which states that the National Assembly implements legislative power and what it does: it exercises parliamentary control. I would like to dispel the understanding in individual MPs, whole groups or the Assembly's leadership that parliamentary control is a relation between individual MPs and a separate minister. This is an attitude between the National Assembly as an authority, you can call it Friday control, you can call it a quarter control, such as a Friday market, but this is an attitude between the National Assembly institution and within it is realized the ministerial responsibility, and the National Assembly institution meets in the presence of a quorum. I want to reassure you that the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria will not use primos as a boycott of the National Assembly, because obviously this text contains the fear of boycott and failure of meetings. In the latest 25-year history of Bulgarian parliamentaryism there are no other cases, except in the previous National Assembly, when the opposition fails parliamentary control instead of implementing it in relation to the government. But one is a boycott of the institution and destruction, and the other is the use of parliamentary funds, including from the opposition, which we will use to control the executive power. And I promise you, do not be afraid you have a large majority, there is no deliberate, even when there are not enough MPs in this House to fail parliamentary control meetings. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because the adoption of the other thesis means the gradual atomization of the National Assembly and its depreciation as an organ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u611	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u612	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr Kazak, there is an opportunity during control when a question then becomes a debate with a draft decision, but the draft decision takes place in the next plenary session. There is no way for this to happen under a Constitution without a quorum in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u613	There are exceptions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u614	But, of course... Mr. Mikov, if you are right, this means that the opposition, which is supposed to be smaller than the parliamentary majority, would never, ever have the right to exercise control over the majority executive power. Because what you just said means that if maliciously not happening, I don't want to think about it. I don't want to think about it. A majority during Friday's control didn't form a quorum at the beginning of the plenary day, Mr. Mikov. So let us be clear about the adoption of the acts, about the opening of the plenary day, control is a constitutionally necessary condition, which is inconclusive. But let's talk about the fact that, at the time of the control, from 11:00 p.m. on Friday onwards, the presence of 121 MPs should be required, at least for me it is untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u615	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u616	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u617	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Mr. Mihov has been waiting for procedure for a long time. Then I'll give you the floor, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I think everything has been said on this subject and enough has been said. Each colleague has made his decision on how to vote. That is why I propose that the debate on this point be terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u619	A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u620	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, the vote will be an indicator of the attitude on this subject. And this is the big question for Parliament and its authority. Yes, the majority may decide that parliamentary control should only be written. In the Constitution... I can give you more ideas on how to limit it. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] I believe that this discussion should continue because it depends on the authority of Parliament. Otherwise, people are used to looking at the empty room. But if you limit this discussion now, it means that you want to tolerate the empty room on Friday, and then you can stop the direct broadcast so that there is no control over the executive power. Let the discussion continue! I would like to take this matter into consideration and I have stated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u621	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. We do not intend to share such practices that you applied in the previous National Assembly. I put to the vote the procedure taken by Mr. Mihov to end the debates on this point. Please vote. 135 MPs voted: 106 against 29, no abstentions. The motion to end the debate has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u622	Maya, did you see there's a quorum?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u623	Anyone who wants to re-vote? I can't see. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] We vote on the proposal of the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Tsveta Karayancheva, Krasimir Tzipov, Daniel Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov with the latest version, which was read by Mrs. Desislava Atanasova. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 89 against 43 abstentions 8. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova. In order not to announce me later and not to be divided into Bolsheviks and Mensheviks, I would ask you to adhere to the procedure described in the request for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u624	Dear colleagues, as you have seen, the representatives of the ruling quadruple coalition are 94 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u625	What are you questioning?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u626	If we were like GERB, we could really ask for a quorum check...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u627	Well, ask for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u628	...and the meeting would be over. So I understand your fears. The ruling quadruple coalition cannot secure a quorum. [[Loud noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u629	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u630	That's why you want a hearing without a quorum!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u631	If I have this guy in my house, I'm gonna jump off the eighth floor. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u632	That's why you've tabled these proposals against which... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u633	Revoting procedure! Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u634	Re-vote procedure is the most important thing to be with one more.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u635	Vote 138 MPs: 86 against 42, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[National Representative Mihail Mikov wants the floor for a negative vote.]] You had a statement, as I recall, Mr. Mikov. Didn't you? Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u636	I accept your apology, Mr. Glauchev. It's a mistake I give to fatigue. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! This is a step that gives a bad sign to society, a sign that the quadruple coalition has shown that it is afraid of checking the quorum, even on Friday. The opposition is no use in ruining Friday's meetings, ladies and gentlemen. Only you can save the office. In this sense, there is no need for this touching of parliamentary tradition within 25 years. Today you accept for control, tomorrow you will accept the discussions, you can gradually accept that there should be no one in plenary or sit down as a representative and minister and talk. The sign, the signal that is given to the public, expressed by the President tonight, is that parliamentary control is not a control for the implementation of the ministerial responsibility carried out by Parliament, but an attitude between the MP and the minister. Ergo, we can talk to ministers both in offices and outside Parliament. However, it is Parliament that is responsible. The understatement of this question, although in such a way you have a majority for example to decide that parliamentary control issues can only be asked by the rulers or that the managers according to the ratio of the groups have 4:1 time to ask parliamentary control. [[Comments from GERB: Great idea.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u637	Yeah, I'm giving you these ideas. I'm sure one of you will like them. However, this will not be liked by the people who believe that there should be normal parliamentaryism in Bulgaria, and they are most people who are outside of this room. This is the sign given by this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u638	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Any other negative votes? I won't. There was a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, which was in the following sense: Art. 48. (1) The President shall open the meeting by attending most of the half of the MPs with a hearing of the Himmna of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reasons were that at each meeting of the council they did so. With all due respect, respect and devotion to the National Anthem, what I suppose you all have, the analogy between municipal councils that are not a permanent meeting body and Parliament [[a line from the National Representative Maya Manolova]] I call on you to vote on this proposal. Which is for the proposal made by Mr. Valeri Simeonov, please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 57 against 6, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Come in, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u639	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I would like this re-vote, because for me the launch of the national anthem is extremely important. First, the anthem is 50 seconds. Fifty seconds compared to time, much of which we have lost here for speaking. Moreover, the anthem is one of the symbols of statehood and it should sound here at the highest forum of this statehood. And one more thing, a very important motive, as MPs and chosen ones, we must show exemplaryness. The anthem means exemplary and hence whatever happens in this room. It is a symbol of statehood, a symbol of historicality, a symbol of present, of past and future. That's the point of the anthem. This exemplaryness must be shown to our constituents and to the whole of Bulgaria because at the moment when we reject listening to the anthem, think about it, we reject one of the symbols of this statehood, the symbols of Bulgarianity. What kind of sign are we giving? There was talk about signs, about symbols. What sign do we give to our constituents, to the children, to all those who have trusted us? I think it won't hurt anyone if 50 seconds at the beginning of each meeting we stand up straight to respect the ones we're here for. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u640	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. It's a re-vote. They voted 84 MPs: 55 against 2, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the draft under art. 48, which becomes art. 49 together with the proposed by the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Tsveta Karayancheva, Krasimir Tzipov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov text under para. 4. We vote on the whole text. Vote 100 MPs: 78 against 11, abstention 11. Text accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u641	Under art. 49 There is a proposal from Atanasova, Karayancheva, Tzipov, Kirilov and Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 49, which becomes art. 50: Art. 50. (1) The National Assembly shall, on a proposal from the President and after consultations under art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 adopt a programme for one or two working weeks. The President of the National Assembly shall be assisted by the Vice-Presidents when preparing the programme, as well as on other issues relating to parliamentary actions. (2) At the end of each meeting, the Chair shall announce the date and time of the next meeting as well as the agenda according to the programme adopted. (3) Proposals for inclusion of points in the forthcoming programme may be made in writing to the President of the National Assembly by the Members of the National Assembly and the parliamentary groups by 18:00 on the day preceding the plenary sitting at which the forthcoming programme will be voted. Any Member of the National Assembly may propose one item on the agenda of the National Assembly in the week-long agenda and two on the two-week agenda. As points in the forthcoming programme, bills and projects for other acts of the National Assembly, on which there are no reports, but the time limits under art. 75, para. Art. 3 and Art. 85, para. Four have expired. In rejecting the proposal from the National Assembly, the MPs and the parliamentary groups may make the same proposal no earlier than one month. (4) The project for the program under para. 1, proposed by the President, and the proposals received under para. 3 shall be put to the vote without discussion at the beginning of the plenary sitting at which a programme for the coming one or two weeks is adopted. Oral offers are not allowed. (5) In exceptional cases, the President may propose a change to the agenda at the beginning of the plenary sitting. (6) No issues that are not on the agenda may be discussed. (7) Proposals to honor memory with one-minute silence may be made only if they have been submitted in writing in the proceedings of the National Assembly by 18.00 on the day preceding the respective plenary session, except in exceptional cases. (8) Drafts and draft decisions to be included on the agenda of the regular plenary session of the National Assembly held on the first Wednesday of each month shall be proposed by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be made by 6 p.m. on the previous day through the President of the National Assembly. Each parliamentary group shall have the right to propose one item on the agenda. The ordering of the items on the agenda shall be according to the number of parliamentary groups. Each next month, the arrangement of the proposals of the parliamentary groups shall take place on a rotational basis. The National Assembly is obliged to examine in essence the proposals made. If the parliamentary groups have not made proposals, the National Assembly shall work on the adopted programme under para. 1. As points may also be offered bills and drafts for decisions on which there are no reports received, but the time limits under art. 75, para. Art. 3 and Art. 85, para. Four have expired. (9) The programme adopted shall be published after its vote on the website of the National Assembly and upon the vote of subsequent changes thereto shall be updated without delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u642	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? Mr. Kazak, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u643	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here is another further violation of parliamentary tradition and parliamentaryism as a whole. Honourable Members, with your proposal, you limit once again the opportunity of the MPs of the opposition and of the parliamentary groups to propose items on the agenda by limiting this right for the first time if a proposal is rejected, it cannot be made within not earlier than one month. There has never been such a restriction before, and all MPs, parliamentary opposition groups so far, including you in the last Parliament, have taken this opportunity to offer items on the agenda. I ask myself the question why are you now trying to limit one of the few possibilities of MPs from the opposition to offer items on the agenda, when you yourself, as I said, have quite often taken advantage of this opportunity and sometimes these proposals are accepted by plenary? I call on you to really reconsider your position because you never know how long a term will last and perhaps you will again find yourself in opposition position in a next National Assembly. If you accept this proposal now, then it will burden you. So let's not just think about today, but about tomorrow, and let's not do what we wouldn't want to do to us afterwards. My fellow Members, I appeal to reason and suggest that we drop out of para. 3 the last sentence in the text proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u644	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Kazak, I understand how well-intentioned you are, however, I do not want to recall those days when the GERB Parliamentary Group made repeated proposals to consider a bill. The example I can immediately think of is the Law of Volunteering. Yes, it is undeniable that any majority would reject a bill that does not wish to be dealt with, even more so when it is proposed by the opposition. For a year and a half this has happened to us, colleagues. Every Wednesday, when we had the opportunity to make such proposals, the House, i.e. the majority, from BSP, DPS and "Attack" rejected GERB's proposal to examine various bills in plenary. We all remember that it was a fact, didn't we?! We are now eight parliamentary groups. I think that on Wednesday, when the time to discuss the programme should be relatively small to work on the substance, if all these parliamentary groups make a proposal for different draft laws, a sufficiently long time will be lost in the case of re-voicing and justification of the proposals and in cases where procedures are being made. I don't think that's what we need. I think that a large part of us is already sad that you have not reconsidered your function in the forty-third National Assembly to have a constructive tone, dialogue, not opposition. I think that we will be reasonable enough as a majority, all that is important to accept, even what the opposition has proposed, to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u646	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mikov. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Did you give up? Any other lines? Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u647	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think this is the right time to mention something after I heard Mr. Kazak say you shouldn't do what they can do to you. I can't help but mention you and remind you of this crime that all of you here on the left have committed against national dignity and national memory. Four months I've asked you to bring the law into the Chamber or report to the Temporary Commission for Bozhurishte Airport. You have done everything you can... and I think that Mr. Mikov as chairman has the great guilt, because now, colleagues, I want to tell you that the only thing I wanted to do was to impose a moratorium on construction until the Prosecutor's Office gives its opinion on this airport. You didn't lift a finger. On the contrary, you sabotaged my every request to enter the review report. The result... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Smile, Mr. Mikov! The result is the demolition of all hangars, including the new ones, and the old ones, and the excavation of the runway for flying in six places Do you think these are strategic investors in Bulgaria?! There is no builder who can destroy the infrastructure at an airport, even more so that the hangars could be used as a storage facility. They won't build. You knew it and helped commit a crime to the memory of the nation. I have nothing more to say to you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u648	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kazak, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u649	I do not see, honourable Members, Mrs. Atanasova, how you contribute to parliamentaryism and constructiveness, when one by one you take away, you restrict the rights of MPs from the opposition. I don't see how you're gonna encourage the constructive debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u650	It doesn't say anything about it being the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u651	On the contrary, you are thus opening the door wide and clearing the way for a parliamentary dictatorship of the majority, one after another of the acquired rights of the opposition acquired through the long parliamentary practice of democratic Bulgaria. Mr. Velchev, we may have rejected you. I do not know whether it is a crime or not, your proposals, but at least you had the opportunity to justify your proposal here every week, from this platform, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u652	So what?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u653	At least you had that tribune. If you didn't have the opportunity, how many times would you have asked this question from the parliamentary platform? Once a month, as you now suggest. That is why I address you and tell you that you should put yourself in the place of opposition when these texts that you are proposing now and those that will come later can turn against you. I would like to address the smaller parliamentary groups. Dear colleagues, even from the Patriotic Front, even from the Reformation Block, this will limit your ability to offer items on the agenda within a month. Take a look at this. This restriction will affect all MPs from the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u654	Including us.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u655	You know that GERB does not have an independent majority in this assembly. It will be up to you to accept a point or not. This restriction, proposed by colleagues from GERB, also refers to you, realize it and decide how you will vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u656	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. The word has the MP Mihail Mikov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u657	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u658	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u659	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Velchev, I am greatly facilitated by Mr. Kazak's statement. Obviously, the real motives for such changes are linked to malice and rematch. The spite and rematch, and it was in your line. I would like to say to you that from now on, do not ask for constructive opposition when there is no constructive majority, and the steps you are making in the Rules are a very bad path of rematch and malice, which will show citizens very quickly that television constructivism has been too short a pink period in the second management of GERB and its partners. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] Remember that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u660	Thank you, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u661	The old people have said, "Whatever you sow, you will reap.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u662	For speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u663	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Loud laughter, excitement and lines.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u664	Nothing, Mr. Manolova. [[Laughter, excitement and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u665	I'll wait for the room to calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u666	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u667	I am trying to put forward arguments on this text for one single reason. Indeed, the right to legislative initiative is one of the fundamental rights of MPs and parliamentary groups. By limiting our ability to submit bill for consideration in the weekly programme you are effectively limiting our legislative activity because it is not enough to draw up a bill, to submit it to Parliament, it is important that it enters the Chamber, to be discussed, to be voted on. Of course, a variety of examples of which parliament's proposal of which MP was rejected by the plenary can be given. And this morning we heard arguments on the right that you see, if something is offered by BSP, surely the right will reject it simply because it is offered by BSP. I really don't understand such behavior. I will make the effort to give other examples when, as a result of next week's re-entry of a bill, he has seen the light of day, has been discussed and has been voted on just before the parliament is disbanded. It is about the Penal Code, which had the support of DPS and GERB. Literally days before the previous parliament was terminated as a result of the possibility for the DSS to re-submit it as a point in the weekly programme, the plenary voted on its inclusion, it was discussed at first reading and, second, it became a fact. So there are examples in the opposite direction. Here the argument that time should be saved, does not last because it may be eight parliamentary groups, but the number of MPs is 240, the right is for MPs under para. 3 to submit an important bill for him. There are representatives of twenty-something parties in this Parliament. Dear colleagues, don't you have any commitments specifically to your constituents, to the people of your party, to your sympathizers? Why do you rely on the well-meaning of the older brother of the ruling coalition, who you see will bring you the bills on the legal path through the President of the National Assembly. Leave this option to the smaller parliamentary groups, it is for anyone who does not identify one to one with the largest group. Allow yourself this opportunity to have your own face, your own legislative initiatives, your own opportunities for arguments from the plenary. Unlike the right and Mr. Slavov, we will not reject anything just because the reformers proposed it, or just because the Patriotic Front suggested it. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] We've never done it, and we're not doing it. It is possible to enter proposals from different parliamentary groups in the parliamentary hall, and the only way to support the proposals is to have this opportunity for the MPs under para. 3. Last argument. Why do you have to touch texts that have worked for 25 years? It is true that some of the MPs do not have institutional memory, but others are here from several parliaments. [[Heckling]] It is important that this proposal, please reconsider your vote on it, as this is one of the pitys of parliamentaryism, the opportunity to submit a bill to the weekly programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u668	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wasn't going to take the floor, but obviously I was challenged. I don't understand, Mrs. Manolova has spoken here 100 to 200 times already, I don't know how many times she spoke today, talking about some procedural economy and expedition. Obviously, you don't get to talk 100 times about the same thing and expect the job to go. We're still on art. 40 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see how tomorrow we're gonna take it if this is how we're doing it, so maybe a little expediency. And for the sake of punctuality, I actually took the floor to tell her that no one has ever made a statement like that and neither have I. What I said, if she remembers well, if I don't remember taking out the shorthand and seeing it together, but I said proposals that have been made by different Commissioners in the Commission, not to allow BSPs to embezzle them and to say that they are only on their behalf, because in this way some really good proposals can only be voted against. That's what I said, let's be exact and correct. I've never allowed myself to say anything like she misquoted me. The attitude as a whole is benevolent to constructive proposals, but not to promiscuous speech at 10 20 30 or more times. Colleagues, let's really be more efficient.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u670	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u671	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Tsvetomir Mihov for procedure. But before that, there was a statement. I'll give you the opportunity right after.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u672	But that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u673	Let Mr. Mikov elaborate on these from the personal explanation after all. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u674	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want you to be aware when you vote that this series of restrictions also affects parliamentaryism and, as you have already been told, the small parliamentary groups. Especially for the record, you know. Obviously, the big coalition fears not as much the opposition as the fact that separate parliamentary groups from the coalition can make more often legislative proposals, which, although not accepted, outline differences. Because the political model of..2 plus 2.. had looser ties with the other two groups. Now the others, the small groups will fall into going and marketing to include some item on your agenda, which you are aware will not be accepted, but at least be able to motivate that you stand up for something from the election programs. Secondly, these types of restrictions have not been imposed for 25 years, regardless of who had a majority, whether BSP was in power, ODS was in power.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u675	And NDSV.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u676	Different parliamentary groups. Now that Parliament is the most representative as the number of groups and the lowest representative as the number of voters who participated in the last elections, Parliament is making a series of restrictions and this is one of them - the right of individual groups, of individual MPs to say that they want Parliament to address an important issue. It's gonna take three months, and why don't you do it once a year, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u677	Or two years old.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u678	Or two years old, as Mr. Mihov suggests. Then you will have eternal power, eternal peace, and usually such systems are only in one place.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u679	North Korea.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u680	Dear Members of Parliament, please do not take these steps, which we will obviously need to carefully analyse and present to citizens. This is not a strengthening of parliamentaryism, but the opposite, under the motto of economy in time. There were periods 20 years ago and more, 25 years ago, when there was the greatest savings of time.. to gather the National Assembly in sessions, quickly, without discussion, without proposals for the agenda, without parliamentary control. This is where you are going in this direction from the steps of both the parliamentary control and the opposition's proposals and the restrictions you are pushing. How could you not find someone in 25 years to make such... Maybe these MPs didn't have any imagination before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u681	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Mihov. Do you have any lines before that? I know you won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u682	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am very pleased with an amendment to the Rules of Procedure that you made in the Forty-second National Assembly, and referring to it, I propose an end to the debate. [[Arrivality in the Parliamentary Group of GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u683	A reverse opinion? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u684	Mihov, this is 25 years old, not from the forty-second National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u685	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Tsvetomir Mihov to put an end to the debates on this point. Vote 119 MPs: 98 against 19, abstention 2. The proposal of the National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov has been adopted. Let's move on to the vote. There was a proposal from Mr. Chetin Kazak who proposed in al. 3 drop the last sentence in para. Three, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u687	About which all the debates have developed that have been so far. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Chetin Kazak for dropping the last sentence in para. 3 on the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: 26, against 69, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for art. 49, which becomes art. 50. Vote 117 MPs: 96 against 19, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, Mrs. Atanasova, proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u688	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 50 and he becomes art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u689	Is there a wish to make a statement? I won't. Please vote art. 50, which becomes art. 51 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 111, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Report the next member, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Iskren Veselinov, Julian Angelov, Valentin Kasabov and Valentin Ivanov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1 is amended and acquired the following version: In procedural matters, the word shall be given immediately unless there are requests for a reply, a duplicate, a personal explanation or an explanation of a negative vote. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u691	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov, which was not adopted by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 30, against 28, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 52. They voted 113 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 7. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u692	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 52, which becomes art. 53. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u693	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the Chair of the Temporary Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 105, none, abstention 10. The proposals for art. 52, which becomes art. Art. 53, art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 54 on the committee's report, they've been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u694	A proposal has been made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: in art. 54, para. 1 ratio 15:30 minutes to change to 10:20 minutes. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: in art. 54, para. 1 sentence second, the words "seven minutes' shall be replaced by "seven minutes' and the words "seven minutes' shall be replaced by "seven minutes'; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u695	Statements? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u696	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a compromise option: in art. 54, para. 1 ratio to be 10:30 minutes. Where there are 15 minutes, make it 10 minutes, including for the general speaking time of the Members of the National Assembly who are not members of parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u697	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov, I understand. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mrs. Manolova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u698	Dear colleagues, this is a proposal of GERB that hits...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u699	It is not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u700	... in particular the time at which they will have for speeches on the smaller parliamentary groups. It is not supported by the Commission, but GERB did not withdraw, namely instead of the distribution of time between 15 and 30 minutes, to be between 10 and 40 minutes. A simple calculation will show that from this they lose the ABB, the Attack, the BDZ and the Patriotic Front. The time for BSP left Bulgaria remains exactly the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u701	Then why are you speaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u702	I do not understand why you are denying yourself the opportunity to have 17 minutes of parliamentary time when discussing bills of first vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u703	It's their problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u704	Why, when the Rules give it to you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u705	They offer it to people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u706	If you want, don't take all your time? We don't usually take advantage of it, but there are debates where a parliamentary group needs all its time when it protects those who are a cause for it. Why are you making offers against yourself?! We supported this proposal and if the small parliamentary groups support each other or leave the vote for tomorrow, you will eventually get more time. This is democracy: not GERB to have 40 minutes at the expense of you, but to be able to hear the voice of everyone. It's democracy! Why are you denying yourself the opportunities you have?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u707	They made it up themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u708	Tomorrow this will actually be the only resource you will have to justify these.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u709	They've made their own decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u710	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u711	Dear colleagues, I rise because again the words spoken by this tribune are distorted. Mrs. Manolova, stop manipulating things. Mr. Simeonov proposed not what GERB proposed to say from this tribune that GERB won. He proposed to replace the supplier with the "10" and to remain 30, so nothing in favour of GERB does. Stop implying things to people that aren't true, and you're twisting them. GERB's proposal is a different time for the big parties to be at least 40 and for the small parties of Mr. Simeonov does not propose for the big parties to increase to 40, but to stay 30. You from this tribune suggest to the people that it almost does not work for GERB, wanted to increase GERB time. Stop lying and manipulate from this tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u712	Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Manolova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u713	Dear Mr. Velchev, I don't expect you to apologize for the language you hold for me from the parliamentary stand. Moreover, what you say is not true. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] No, I am not lying because GERB's proposal is in the text and it is not withdrawn. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Yes, it is not accepted, but it has not been withdrawn and will be voted in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u714	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u715	If you will not support it, you can withdraw it, as Mrs Atanasova did with all the other proposals you did not vote on. Which you don't vote on, she withdraws, but it didn't withdraw. What I said is that GERB has proposed a change in the time to be voted, according to which they receive 40 minutes and the time of the small parliamentary groups is reduced by 4, 5 and 7 minutes. What Mr. Simeonov is currently proposing again means reducing their time. The time of BSP left Bulgaria does not change. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Well, okay, so you're limiting yourself to a debate, right? You don't want to. [[Noise and lines from GERB and the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u716	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u717	Honourable Members, we have limited ourselves from speeches on all minor texts, but the time for parliamentary debates, legislative proposals, parliamentary control, composition and structure of parliamentary committees are extremely important for the work of this Parliament. We can skip all the other texts, but the more important and the more basic texts we can't help but take attitude. Because if the patriots don't need parliamentary time, if they won't speak out of the stands, the other groups that have 17 and 18 minutes each...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u718	Mrs. Manolova, limit yourself to speeches in your own name, not by someone else's.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u719	... with this proposal will receive 11 minutes each, which is extremely insufficient to justify your opinion on a bill at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u720	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u721	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am truly sorry that I raised my hand to speak so late after Mrs. Manolova had already taken the floor. I was going to withdraw the proposal, Mrs. Manolova, but unfortunately your concern for the other parliamentary groups has gone to Logorea and we have returned to all the other texts that we have already adopted, rejected or abstained from. Dear colleagues of the Patriotic Front, protect God if Maya Manolova is your mentor and if she defends your rights. I withdraw what we have made and support Mr. Simeonov's proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u722	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Kazak, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u723	Procedure! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u724	Right after Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u725	Tsetzo, next time you'll raise your hand. [[Radio.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, this is another episode of the saga limiting parliamentary debates, time and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u726	I thought the offer was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u727	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u728	I know it's been withdrawn, but another proposal has been made. My fellow Members, I am addressing the small parliamentary groups. [[Radio.]] Dear colleagues, pay attention, the independent MPs will have five minutes each. Right now, for now, there's only one independent.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u729	It's enough for her, I think.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u730	There'll be five minutes. Maybe there'll be more tomorrow. Imagine the hypothesis that there are three non-members in a parliamentary group of MPs, each will have five minutes. So three MPs in total will have 15 minutes, and two or three parliamentary groups, and maybe more, I don't know, I didn't calculate, they'll have less of them, even though they have at least 10 MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u731	Mr. Kazak, do you know something the other MPs don't know? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u732	Make this account and especially the small parliamentary groups have no interest in this proposal. Only GERB is interested. Trust me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u733	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u734	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, there is no point in repeating to you each time how nice the Rules of Procedure you adopted in the Forty-second National Assembly? I suggest we call off the debate and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u735	Yes, I will put your voting procedure to the vote, but before that, Mr. Belemezov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as importers on our text under art. 54, para. 15-30 minutes to be changed to 10-20 minutes, we withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u737	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Mihov to end the debates on this point. Please vote. They voted 122 MPs: 100, against 18, abstention 4. The proposal of the MP Mihov to end the debates on this point has been adopted. Let's move on to the vote. There was a proposal which was made by the MP Valeri Simeonov, which concerns para. 1 of art. 54. I'm going to read you the whole text to get an idea of what this is about: The President shall determine the time to discuss each item on the agenda, as well as the day and time at which the vote on it will take place. The time for discussion shall be allocated to the parliamentary groups depending on their numbers, and for the smallest of them it shall not be less than 10 minutes, but for the largest of them 30 minutes. In total, the speaking time of the MPs not members of a parliamentary group shall be up to 10 minutes and of the individual MPs not members of a parliamentary group within 5 minutes. Is this the right offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u738	Yeah, it's correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u739	Thank you. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. Art. 53, which becomes art. 54 on the Commission report, together with the editorial proposal made by Mr. Valeri Simeonov in para. 1 of art. 54. Please vote. They voted 123 MPs: 88, against 33, abstention 2. The proposal is accepted as well as the text of art. 54. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, what we have meant as importers is that we are withdrawing the text in favour of staying under the old regulation and under the old Rules, that is, the ratio to continue being 15-30 minutes. I believe that it is extremely incorrect that the ratio be reduced to 10 to 30. And for this reason, I would suggest that the text be reworded again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u741	I don't think I can do anything like that except re-vote what I've offered you. Otherwise, if I were to rethink your proposal, it wouldn't be possible. I am re-voting the text of the Commission with the editorial proposals proposed by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. That's what I can do. Re-vote, please. Vote 124 MPs: 88 against 35, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u742	Article 55. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 55, which becomes art. 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-20.u743	We shall vote on the wording of art. 55, which becomes art. 56 on the Commission report. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The text of art. 55, which becomes art. 56 on the Commission report has been adopted. Dear Members of Parliament, I am adjourning today's session. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
