ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u1	I'm opening the plenary session. Dear colleagues, I was in direct contact with Minister Moskov late yesterday afternoon and the evening after the information about suspected Ebola virus on the territory of our country. Although we didn't know how the facts would develop during the past night, I invited him to do what is appropriate, whatever the result, thank God, the news has been good since this morning to inform the MPs not only about the case, but also about the readiness of the Ministry of Health and other responsible institutions in the country to react, about actions in similar situations. Therefore, before our legislative activity today, I propose that we give Minister Moskov the opportunity to inform us about the situation in the country on this issue. Here you go, Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u2	Good afternoon, Madame Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have asked the President of Parliament for the opportunity to inform the National Assembly of the situation, actions and conclusions of yesterday. [[Noise in the room.]] If there's no interest, of course, I might not. I'll start with a protocol on what hours are done in these eleven hours of the day, then I'll tell you what conclusions we've made, what measures will be taken further. At 17.00 yesterday at the press centre of the Ministry of Health received information from the director of the Sofia Regional Health Inspection for a case suspected of infection with the Ebola virus. The director of the Sofia inspection was informed by the Hospital Tokuda........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At Tokuda Hospital, the patient was considered to be a case of Ebola virus testing and, according to the protocol in place, informed the health authorities. At 5:15 p.m., the Department of Health gathered a departmental headquarters for response to cases suspected of Ebola infection under my supervision. It was formed back in time with an explicit order. At 5:30 we contacted the management of Tokuda Hospital to obtain information and give recommendations for behavior. By my order, I have ordered the Director of the RZI to begin immediately a full epidemiological investigation of the case and to take all necessary measures in accordance with the adopted protocol of conduct, including, where necessary, an action for the isolation of contact persons. At 17.40 pm a connection was made with the MMA Sofia, which was tasked with ensuring readiness and setting up an organization for receiving patients and carrying out the necessary diagnostic healing actions. At 6:30 P.M., the director of RZI reported to me the results of the epidemiological study. According to this study, there were 12 persons who had direct contact with the prospective, thirteen persons in indirect contact who were present in the hospital. Another person, either in contact, has been placed in hospital on the occasion of another disease and is also in barrier mode. According to this epidemiological study, five persons had left the hospital area of Tokuda. They were identified with names and telephone contacts. I am in a hurry to say that at this point, we had moved the entire reaction protocol into a possible serious contagious situation. I've issued a written order to the relevant authorities for the isolation of each of the persons we have evidence that he was in some kind of contact with the ebola patient. I take absolute responsibility for this action of mine. Whether the specific protocols, even European, require those persons to be put under surveillance in a hospital environment, I have taken this action, I have ordered the health inspection and the hospitals concerned to do so. I would rather be accused of overreaction than allow even the slightest possibility of spreading such an infection on the territory of Bulgaria. In this context, instant telephone contact with two of the five people who left the territory was established. The other three at this point were in a state of unknownness. In relation to the protocols made by the Ministry and the Interdepartmental Commission, we started searching for these persons together with the SDVR. This is information that I am now saying for the first time.. it was not public because the entire Protocol of Action of the Ministry and the group is connected with the desire not to panic among the population. In this way another woman was identified who was transported and admitted to the Military Hospital for observation. Two of the persons continued to be unaccounted for and continued their search by joint teams of a specialized ambulance at the Military Hospital. The search was terminated in the early hours of the night when the need for this was actually dropped. In any case, the headquarters decided that all these 25 persons should be isolated at Tokuda Hospital, to be provided with active surveillance, food, drinks, and others wanted. At 6:40, we made contact with the Director of the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases Prof. Kantardzhiev and was tasked with organizing the activities of the virological laboratory at the Centre in order to immediately perform a specific test and establishment or rejection of the Ebola virus. By 7:00 a.m., the Virological Laboratory reported a group that, apart from the Director of the National Centre, participated in it. Iva Hristova, Head of the Virological Laboratory, one doctor, two biologists, two lab technicians ready to perform the necessary research immediately. At 19.50 p.m. the patient was transported by the Hospital to the Military Medical Academy in compliance with all the requirements of the protocol. At 8:10 p.m. Prof. The Head of the Infectious Clinic at the MMA presented the initial information on the patient's clinical condition and non-specific studies. They showed certain deviations that continued to support the suspicions of such an infection. According to the team, he had a complicated history, accumulated additional diseases and the final specification of the diagnosis suggested additional and specific serological examination. At this point, the viral sample was also sent to the National Centre. At 20.30 for the first time, the headquarters prepared and distributed information about the media, providing data on the cases and actions of the Ministry of Health. The information was accurate and clear, as far as it was possible, but at the same time well refined, so as not to create panic. At 7:11 p.m., he started his virological examination in the lab, and the expected results were six hours later. At around 9:30, we received the first results from the patient's clinical report, which did not contain definitive evidence of a viral infection. In cooperation with the Headquarters, further actions were recommended to be carried out purely medically. At 21.45, the Director of the Regional Health Inspection reported additional data on the epidemiological study and information that the patient had visited Sierra Leone Province, where there was no increased spread of the disease, but there was a high prevalence of malaria. At this time, the final decision was taken to engage the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in the search for the remaining five potential contact persons. At 9:50 a.m., there was contact with Hospital Tokuda (MHAT) among the others under surveillance in barrier mode. There is a pregnant woman, and the management of Hospital Tokuda (MHM) was provided the maintenance of her health condition. At 10:00, the second communication was prepared to the mass media about the development of the case. In this order, at 3.45, we received the final opinion of the Virological Laboratory, which categorically rejected, I repeat, categorically rejected the possibility that this patient might have a carrier of the Ebola virus. This was also the moment from which down the chain we would back down and the level of anxiety was reduced. The patients under special supervision were cared for and released, and we closed the crisis. That was 11 hours. Eleven hours from the start, in all the actions of the state and all its divisions until we can close down and resolve the crisis. I take this opportunity to thank all the teams that have worked as a well-oiled machine during these 11 hours, starting from the level of practical, hourly contact at the top of the state between me, as head of this headquarters, the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister, the mayor of Sofia, the chiefs of major hospitals, down the chain, the director of Sofia RZI, who did a wonderful job on the field, the teams of the Military Hospital who did a wonderful job in transportation, the doctors themselves in Tokuda, who were the first meeting with this potential disease. This showed that the State has the capacity, the ability and readiness to deal with such a situation. I say again, 11 hours from the start of the crisis to its closure, through its resolution, it would have been closed and resolved even in the bad situation, if such an infection had been present. What are the lessons, what is the earring of these 11 hours? We have a situation in which a person has come into the territory of Bulgaria, in this case he is a Bulgarian citizen, but that does not matter, he has come in good health, but he has been in a country that is relevant for epidemics of ebola. The Bulgarian state, the health authorities and the authorities in general have understood that this person was only in such a state at the moment when he sought help from the health authorities, that is, we have a window in which such a person who enters absolutely healthy, without symptoms, the thermal cameras that are installed at the border cannot react, he himself has no concerns about his health, and the moment when he develops some clinical picture. In this case, it's just a picture of probably some severe bacterial infection, but in this period the state, the authorities, the system's ability to react and manipulate this thing at the moment is missing. It is missing for objective reasons and is missing throughout Europe because we cannot actively seek the opportunity to search for these people where and how they were. What we will propose today at the meeting that is coming with the Prime Minister and my colleagues in the Council of Ministers is an active information campaign. It turns out that medical people have the information, have the ability and qualities to react, find, identify and move the chain, press the panic button. If there is a problem, it is related to the awareness of every Bulgarian citizen about what the ebola is, what its consequences might be and how it should be reacted to, who should be informed. We will launch a massive information campaign relating to various sources of information at each of the border crossings, which does not require an imperative because we do not have this legal right, but to inform persistently that if a person entering the territory of the country was in the last month in a country where there is an epidemic of ebola, there is an open phone number for him that the ministry will open on Monday and he must inform the health authorities of the good of himself, of his relatives, of his children. From then on it will already be identified and will now be subject to a daily medical evaluation, if necessary by telephone, if you need a doctor's direct visit to his condition, that is, we will know. These will be units, as they are so far, the people who are returning from such countries, but we will make sure that the state, the authorities, you all have the security that we have done as much as necessary to know if there is a potential bomb. There is a whole program of specific training for the Border Police, how to monitor, how to look and so on. What is currently under way is the delivery of the required amount of protective clothing and masks to places that could be encountered or part of the state's jet system for these cases, namely the regional health centers, clinics, infectious diseases wards, emergency medical centers and temporary care centres. All this will be an additional system of measures against the background of and so far obviously, again I say, against the background of yesterday's working measures. Once again, I declare to you that I can look at you with dignity and report that the country and the government you have chosen has dealt with this crisis. The fact that the outcome is good and there is no ebola does not mean that all measures have not been taken, even if this infection is present. The public is protected from the possibility of spreading the crisis. Thank you once again for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and the Reformation Bloc.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u3	Thank you, Minister Moskov. I wish you a good day. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the point where debates and voting are taking place: PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. On yesterday, the name and Articles 1 to 55 included on the report, by importer, where art. 55 is 56 on the Commission report. It is now time to report to art. 56 under the Project, which is proposed in the Commission report to be art. 57. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, a proposal has been made by the MPs Aliosman Imamov, Cetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal has been made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov in art. 56 para. 2 the words after the vote shall be replaced by the words at the end of the sitting. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 4 to drop the text at most to three Members of Parliament and to be added at the end of the sitting. The Commission does not support the proposal. There has been a proposal from the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Tsveta Karayancheva, Krasimir Tsipov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Lazarov in art. 56, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: The personal explanation is made at the end of the meeting. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 57: Art. 57. (1) The Members of the National Assembly shall have the right to a personal explanation within 2 minutes after speaking in plenary shall be individually or individually affected. (2) The Members of the National Assembly shall be entitled to an explanation of their negative vote within 2 minutes of the vote. (3) The right to explain a negative vote is only this MP who has not spoken during the discussion of the matter. (4) For an explanation of negative vote, the word shall be given at most to three Members of the National Assembly. (5) No explanation of a negative vote shall be allowed after a secret vote or after a vote on procedural matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u5	Statements? Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u6	Honourable Members, Madam President! The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will vote against the proposal of GERB to make personal explanations at the end of the plenary session. I think that there is no need for specific arguments to prove that if a Member of the National Assembly is offended at 9:30, he will have to explain and give an answer to the abusive other Member of Parliament at 14:00 at the end of the plenary session. It is obvious that the connection is lost with both the parliamentary debate and the opportunity of a MP to defend himself when he is attacked unjustly; then, when he is offended; then, when words sound to him from the parliamentary tribune, epithets, as we heard many times yesterday during the parliamentary debate. This is a right of the MPs, which is mainly used by the opposition and which has existed for 25 years. It is normal, when there is a parliamentary debate, that anyone who wants to participate in it, anyone who is being rude, can explain in the context of this debate and not at the end of the plenary session. I really do not understand why you have this self-confidence to break rules that have worked in many parliaments, to change procedures that are in the interest of parliamentaryism, which are in the interest of the people's representation, which allow for really parliamentary debates where everyone can put their arguments calmly. Yesterday, we witnessed a truly dissimilar situation in cases where parliamentary groups made a proposal that restricts their own time to speak in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u7	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u8	We have seen how the principles of the functioning of parliamentary committees change, how the opposition's mouth is blocked [[Replications of MP Stanislav Ivanov]] , how opportunities for controlling the executive power, special intelligence means, are taken away from the SANS. This is another proposal from a series of proposals aimed at parliamentaryism. Indeed, in this Chamber of Parliament, when, given the diversity of parliamentary groups, it is expected that there will be a real discussion here, the ruling quadruple coalition is doing everything possible to work against parliamentaryism. I really don't understand! This proposal met resistance during the Temporary Parliamentary Commission, GERB was not supported, but given the reversals that took place yesterday in the vote, I hope indeed that all parliamentary groups from the smallest to the largest will realise what is being proposed and will not support this proposal. I also expect the importers, who were silent yesterday in the most important texts, to explain why they are doing so. Why do they not want to allow abusive MPs to defend themselves while the debate is taking place?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u9	In the committee's proposal, there is no such proposal. The proposals made for an explanation of negative vote and a personal explanation at the end of the meeting were rejected. We are commenting on the committee's proposals. They have not been reproduced, the committee has not accepted these proposals. What statement do you make about something that is not offered?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u10	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, during the parliamentary discussion at second reading the unsupported proposals are also discussed. [[Laughter at GERB Parliamentary Group.]] Yesterday we witnessed texts that weren't supported...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u11	I listened very carefully to your examination yesterday. I followed the examination very carefully. Here, this is abuse of the rights of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u12	Obviously, you were not paying attention while I was reviewing yesterday, because otherwise you would remember that, for example, the speaking time of the parliamentary groups, his reduction, which was not supported by the committee, changed yesterday in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u13	And on what basis do you comment on the already voted text from the stand when it is discussed art. 57?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u14	I'm commenting on the trend of this majority, of this quadruple coalition... [[Comments from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u15	The trends in the towers in front of the media, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u16	...to restrict the rights that happened yesterday. And on what grounds do you replicate me from the parliamentary tribune?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u17	I take occasion from the way you behaved.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u18	Go downstairs and say it in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u19	I simply said that I would consistently follow the practice of the forty-second National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u20	We have not restricted any MPs in the speeches and have given him the opportunity to make a personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u21	Time's up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u22	...when he's rude.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u24	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u25	Mrs. Atanasova has a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, really, observe the traditions of the Forty-second National Assembly and the wise leadership, especially of the Vice-President in relation to this when MPs deviate from the issue under discussion, interrupt them. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u27	Replies to Mrs. Manolova's statement? I won't. There's a procedure for Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the opportunity to take up a procedure in the manner of conduct and to remind you that, in fact, from the parliamentary tribune, when MPs speak, it is as if nowhere in the Rules of Procedure under the new Rules is written that you are entering a dialogue with the speaker. [[Comments from GERB Parliamentary Group.]] And a convenient use of the opportunity again by Mrs. Atanasova, let us be correct and you take note not to enter into dialogue with the speakers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u29	We're working on the old one.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u30	It doesn't say there either.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u31	Any other MPs? [[Heckling]] Colleagues, please concentrate on the texts discussed. Are there any other statements? Professor Stanilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u32	A few minutes ago, there was a dispute about what we were discussing... only what supports the Commission or all the proposals? I am ten years in this Parliament and have always discussed all the proposals on the laws discussed and adopted. Here to Mrs. Atanasova, I have such a question regarding their proposal, which the Commission does not support if we go to make a personal explanation at the end of the meeting, how long will we have left? How long is there supposed to be for the personal explanation? Because he writes at the end of the meeting and it is at 2 pm and gives a personal explanation, or at 13.50 pm or 13.55 pm. Time cannot be calculated and there will be no debate. It's just not gonna happen. Think about it. Otherwise, what's left is old, and I won't speak on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u33	The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u34	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Stanilov, I would replicate you in terms of time.. 14.00. If a colleague of ours asks for a personal explanation, it is regulated within 2 minutes. If during the entire sitting he felt affected, for example, by at least five speakers, does this mean that I will take the floor five times two minutes? Here is your legitimate question: what does it mean at the end of the sitting?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u35	Second line? I won't. Professor Stanilov? You don't want to use it. Any other MPs? Mrs. Ahmedova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! It is clear to everyone that this proposal is nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u37	That's why it's not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u38	That is why I propose an end to the debate and a vote. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u39	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 159 MPs: 130 against 17, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 149 MPs: 15 against 87 abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanasova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 146 MPs: for 3, against 66, abstentioned 77. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 57 in the version of the Commission. Vote 147 MPs: 144, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u40	The Commission generally supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version for art. 57, which becomes art. 58: Art. 58. Once the list of speakers has been exhausted or representatives of all parliamentary groups have spoken according to the allocation of speaking time under art. 55 and no requests for extension of time have been made, the President shall declare the deliberations closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u41	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 58 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 147 MPs: 143, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u42	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 59: Art. 59. (1) When a procedural proposal has been made, the floor shall be given to a Member of the National Assembly who disagrees with it. The proposal shall be put to the vote immediately without discussion. (2) The exercise of the law under para. 1 shall not affect the rights of the parliamentary groups under art. 55, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u43	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 59. They voted 144 MPs: 139 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 59, which becomes art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 60, which becomes art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u45	Anblock, we vote on the members with numbers 60, 61 and 62 on the Commission report. Vote 153 MPs: 151 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u46	A proposal has been made under art. 62, which is withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 62, which becomes Art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u47	Vote art. 63. Vote 148 MPs: 147 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u48	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 64. Art. 64. Proposal for a vote under art. 63, para. 2, p. 3, 4 and 5 or a secret vote may be made by one tenth of all Members of the Parliament or by one Parliamentary Group. The proposal shall be put to the vote without debate. He is listening to one MP from a parliamentary group who disagrees with the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u49	Mrs. Atanasova, this is an active text right now. Article 63 is absolutely identical to what you propose as an amendment to the Commission. There's no difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u50	The reference, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u51	It's only the numbering that makes the difference. Got it. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 64 in his version of the committee report. Vote 150 MPs: 150, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u52	Under art. 64 a proposal has been made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: In Art. 64 (1) the first sentence shall be amended as follows: The vote shall be carried out with a special block of parliamentary time, e.g. at 11.30, separating from the discussions on the substance. The presence of all Members of the National Assembly during the vote is mandatory. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 65: Art. 65. (1) Before the vote, the President shall invite the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. The voting time per article. 63, para. 2, p. 1 is up to 30 seconds, but not less than 15 seconds. (2) No speeches shall be allowed from the announcement of the vote until completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u53	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Belemezov's proposal, which the committee does not support. They voted 143 MPs: 37, against 57, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 69 in his version of the committee's report. They voted 147 MPs: 144, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u54	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 65, as is the project which becomes art. 66, for the text of the draft of art. 66, which becomes Art. 67, the text of the draft for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 68, the text of the draft for art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 69, the text of the draft for art. 69, which becomes art. 70, the text of the draft for art. 70, which becomes art. 71, the text of the draft for art. 71, which becomes art. 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u55	Anblock, I put to the vote members from 66 to 72, including in the version of the committee's report. Vote 139 MPs: 138 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u56	"Chapter 8" "Introduction, discussion and adoption of bills and other acts of the National Assembly." The Commission supports the text of the draft on the name of Chapter Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u57	We vote on the name of Chapter Eight. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u58	Under art. A proposal has been made by Desislava Atanasova and a group. The proposal is generally adopted in the part concerning the reference to compliance with European law, in the rest it is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 72, which becomes Art. 73: Art. 73. (1) The bills shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly on paper and in electronic form and shall be registered immediately in a public register. Where the drafts are submitted by the Council of Ministers, they shall also be accompanied by a reference to compliance with European law in the event of harmonisation. (2) In the reasons the importer shall give an opinion on the expected consequences, including financial, of the implementation of the bill. (3) The reasons of the bills relating to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union shall indicate a specific part of the law of the European Union which imposes the corresponding regulation. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! I have one suggestion to the text............................................................................... People are not obliged to become computer specialists, even more so, that there are not enough conditions in parliament for recording CDs in this format.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u60	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First we have to vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's editorial proposal, and it is in art. 73, para. 1 to drop the text in electronic form. Please vote. They voted 126 MPs: 27, against 48, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 73 in his version of the committee's report. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u61	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 73, which becomes Art. 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u62	Vote art. 74. They voted 123 MPs: 122, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u63	Under art. 74 a proposal has been made by Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 75: Art. 75. (1) The Standing Committees shall discuss the draft bills no earlier than 24 hours and no later than three weeks after receipt by the members of the committee concerned. They shall submit to the President of the National Assembly and to the Chair of the committee responsible a reasoned report in due time, in accordance with the legislative programme and the adopted one-week or two-week programme for the work of the National Assembly. (2) In the discussion of the bill of first voting, the committee responsible may, before examining it in substance, assess its compliance with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts and the Decree on its implementation and, in case of discrepancies, recommend to the importer to bring it into line within 7 days. (3) The reports on the draft bills shall be submitted to the National Assembly by the leading committees for the first vote no later than two months after their submission and shall be published immediately on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u64	Statements? I won't. Vote art. Seventy-five in the commission. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u65	Under art. 75 has received a proposal from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 75, which becomes Art. 76: Art. 76. (1) The bills, together with the reasons for them, the reference under art. 73, para. 1 and the report of the committee responsible to which they have been allocated shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting in which they will be examined. The same period, if the National Assembly does not decide otherwise, shall also apply for the consideration of the bills for the second vote. (2) The Chair of the committee responsible shall require an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the respective minister. The Council of Ministers or the relevant minister shall deliver an opinion within two weeks of its request. (3) Under bills governing employment and social security relations, the Chair of the committee responsible shall request an opinion from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. (4) Under bills governing the rights of persons with disabilities, the chairman of the committee responsible requires an opinion from the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. (5) The President of the committee responsible shall, under bills relating to the judiciary, request an opinion from the Supreme Judicial Council. (6) Citizens may submit written opinions on the bills. (7) The opinions under para. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 shall be published on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly and distributed to the members of the committee. (8) The lack of opinions under para. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 does not stop the discussion of the bill. (9) The report by the committee responsible for the first vote shall also include an assessment of the expected consequences of the implementation of the future law, including the financial law, as well as a summary of the opinions received and a summary opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u66	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am speaking not to make a proposal for change or against this text. I'm speaking to get on the record what I'd like to say. In para. 9 and the previous texts require the reasons and reports on the expected results of the legislative initiative concerned. I would like to declare that we from the Patriotic Front, and I think all of us, when we look at these motives and the consequences of implementing the laws, will pay serious attention to the expected demographic consequences of one law or another. This is supposedly contained in this text, so we do not make any editorial changes, but we have to say it from this tribune to make it known that one of the focusses of our attention must be on the demographic consequences of each legislative initiative. Moreover, yesterday a good undertaking failed to obtain a majority in the National Assembly, namely the establishment of a subcommittee on demographic problems. Otherwise, we support, of course, this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u68	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. We're going to vote on art. 76 in his version of the committee's report. They voted 119 MPs: 100, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u69	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 76, which becomes Art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 78. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u70	We vote members with numbers 77 to 79 inclusive. They voted 114 MPs: 112, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u71	Under art. 79 a proposal has been made by Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 79, which becomes Art. 80: Art. 80. (1) Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendments and additions to the bill adopted at the first vote or the joint bill under art. 78, para. 2 within 7 days of its adoption, respectively from its submission to the Members of the National Assembly. The proposals shall be made through the President of the National Assembly to the Chair of the Committee responsible and shall be entered in a public register of the National Assembly. By way of exception, the National Assembly may decide that this period shall be extended by a maximum of three weeks or reduced but not less than three days. (2) The draft report for the second vote shall be published on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly within one day after the expiry of the term under para. 1. (3) On proposals submitted by MPs, the chairman of the committee responsible may request an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the respective minister. (4) Within 14 days of the expiry of the term under para. 1 the committee responsible shall submit to the National Assembly a report containing: 1. made within the term under para. 1 written proposals of Members of the Parliament and the opinion of the Committee on them; 2. the proposals of the Committee on the Draft Discussions when it adopts such proposals on the occasion of a proposal made by some of its members during the meetings. (5) The report under para. 4 shall be published immediately on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 80 in the Commission's version. They voted 111 MPs: 104, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u72	A proposal has been made under art. 80 of the MPs Atanasova, Karayancheva, Tsipov, Kirilov and Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and 3, and times t. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 81: Art. 81. (1) The National Assembly shall discuss and vote on the draft laws of the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section or text by text. Where no written proposals or objections are made, the texts shall not be read in the plenary. In this case, the texts shall apply to the stenographic protocol as part of it. (2) In the second vote shall be discussed only proposals of Members of the National Assembly which have been received in accordance with art. 80 as well as proposals from the committee responsible, included in her report. Editorial amendments are also eligible. Proposals which are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote shall not be discussed and voted. (3) A Member of the National Assembly may justify proposals made within 3 minutes for each proposal. (4) The vote shall take place in accordance with art. 66. No speeches or new proposals are allowed during the vote. Only the proposals of Members of the National Assembly, which have been adopted in accordance with Article 1, shall be voted on. 80, the proposals of the committee responsible, the editorial amendments made during the discussion, as well as proposals to reject or postpone a text. (5) When the rapporteur, when reporting the second vote bill in plenary, read a text with content other than the proposal in the committee responsible's report without an editorial amendment to the order envisaged, the text proposed in the committee's report shall be put to the vote. Honourable Members, we withdraw the proposal made in art. 80, t. 2 and we offer an editorial amendment in para. 3 of art. 81 in the Commission's report, the number
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u73	To make it clear to the Members of the National Assembly, it is said that the current rule of second reading each Member of the National Assembly should be able to develop its thesis in a specific text within five minutes and not as adopted by the Commission within three minutes. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Atanasova's editorial proposal in art. 81, para. 3 the number "s' to be replaced by the number "s' followed by the word "s'. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the full content of art. 81, along with the newly adopted decision by the National Assembly. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 82. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 83: Art. 83. (1) The President shall announce at the first meeting of the National Assembly the receipt of a decree of the President under art. 101 of the Constitution, with which the Law adopted by the National Assembly comes back for a new discussion. (2) Within three days of entry, the President of the National Assembly shall instruct the committee responsible to report to the Members the President's decree and the reasons thereto. (3) The law returned for a new discussion shall be included on the National Assembly's agenda within 15 days of the entry of the decree. (4) The National Assembly shall repeat the law by a majority of more than half of all Members of the National Assembly. (5) If the returned law does not receive the necessary majority and is contested in principle, it shall be subject to consideration in accordance with the procedure laid down for the discussion and adoption of bills. (6) If the returned law does not receive the necessary majority and only separate texts are challenged, the procedure under art. 81 by voting only the contested and related texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u75	Report and art. Art. 83, which art. 84.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 84.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u77	Are there any statements on the three texts? I won't. Anblok we vote art. Art. 82, Art. Art. 83 84 on the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u78	A proposal has been made under art. 84 of the MPs Maya Manolova, Philip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 84, which becomes Art. 85: Art. 85. (1) A draft decision, declaration and address may be submitted by the Members of the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Groups. (2) The drafts of decisions, declarations and addresses shall be submitted in paper and electronic form and shall be registered immediately in a public register. (3) The draft decisions, declarations and addresses shall be distributed by the President of the National Assembly between the relevant Standing Committees within three days of their entry, of which he shall inform the Members of the National Assembly in accordance with Article. 74, para. 3. (4) The Standing Committees shall discuss the projects under para. 1 no later than 15 days from their distribution and submit their opinions on them to the President of the National Assembly. (5) Decisions, declarations and addresses shall be adopted in one vote. (6) A draft decision, declaration and address may be withdrawn by the importer until he has been put to the vote at a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u79	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 85 in the Commission's version. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. Unanimous offer accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u80	Under art. 85 proposals have been made by the MPs Imamov, Kazak and Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 50, para. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 85, which becomes art. 86. Under art. 86 no proposals have been made. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 87: Art. 87. (1) Reports under art. 84, p. 16 and 17 of the Constitution contain a report on the activities of the law enforcement body during the relevant period, the problems and difficulties it encounters, including the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly in the discussion of the previous report. (2) Reports shall be submitted to the National Assembly by 31 March, unless another time limit is laid down by law. (3) Reports under art. 84, p. 16 and 17 of the Constitution shall be distributed by the President of the National Assembly to the relevant Standing Committee within three days of their entry, of which he shall inform the Members of the National Assembly in accordance with art. 74, para. 3. (4) The Permanent Committee shall discuss the report under para. 1 no later than 15 days of its distribution and submit its opinion to the President of the National Assembly and propose a draft decision on the report. The draft decision may also contain recommendations to the body whose activity is being discussed. (5) The report under para. 1 shall be included on the National Assembly's agenda within one month of its submission to the National Assembly and shall be dealt with no later than three months. (6) The report under para. 1 shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard the opinion of the committee and the presentation of the importer within 10 minutes. The discussion continues with the speeches of MPs, which may also contain questions to the importer who is obliged to answer them. (7) During the discussion of the report under para. 1 Members of the National Assembly may make proposals for amendments and additions to the draft decision proposed by the Commission. (8) The importer shall take account of the proposals and recommendations made. (9) The proposals of the Members of the National Assembly under para. 7 shall be voted in accordance with Article 7. 66. (10) A decision shall be adopted on the report. The National Assembly may accept or reject the report of the importer under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution. When rejecting the report, the National Assembly motivates its decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u81	Statements? I won't. We are voting for members with numbers 86 and 87 on the Commission's report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u82	Under art. 86a no offers received. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 86a, which becomes art. 88: Art. 88. (1) The National Assembly may require the submission of a report by an authority under art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution and on individual matters of its activity on a proposal from the relevant Standing Committee or one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The National Assembly shall determine the questions, the period to which the report relates and the period for its submission. (3) The discussion of the report under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 87.....................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u83	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 88. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u84	Under art. 87 a proposal has been made by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal came from the MPs Filip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u85	You're withdrawing the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u87	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I hope Mr. Georgiev feels the same way, because you are two importers. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u88	A proposal has been made by the MP Petar Slavov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 87, which becomes Art. 89: Art. 89. (1) The National Assembly shall elect under the legislation in force in whole or in part after a public procedure has been carried out. (2) The proposals for selection shall be published on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. (3) Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions on the applicant to the Commission no later than three days before the hearing, including questions to be addressed to the Commission. The media may send to the committee questions to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions shall be published on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. (4) The proposals for selection shall be examined by a Standing Committee of the National Assembly, which shall hear applicants who comply with the requirements of the law, and shall submit a report which shall summarize the results of the hearing. The hearing is public. (5) The report under para. 4 contains the Commission's conclusion on the fulfilment of the minimum legal requirements for taking up the post by each of the candidates, as well as on the existence of data which question the moral qualities of the applicant, his competence, qualifications, experience and professional qualities. The report shall also take into account the existence of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant concerned. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. (6) The report under para. 4 shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the start of the meeting at which the nominations will be voted and published on the website of the National Assembly. (7) The National Assembly shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the relevant committee, as well as the procedure for their election by the National Assembly. The draft rules shall be drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the committee responsible for each election.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u89	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u90	Colleagues, although this is an undisputed text, provoked by the fact that yesterday 30 minutes we wasted time on individual texts that were not so important, I would like to say a few words on this chapter because it is extremely important to us. First of all, it is extremely important because, believe me, the public hearing of candidates for positions on the high floors of the judiciary is being monitored by the European Commission. We expect an extremely important report that should say whether Bulgaria progresses in the field of justice and internal order, or remains in the same place, or is it falling behind. I think this is a step forward in this regard. Secondly, let us not forget cases like Veneta Markovska. People are still shaking, thinking of a case like Delyan Peevski as the head of the DANS. Let's not forget all this! We hope that, with the new paragraphs and members of this chapter, we will achieve the hearing of candidates within the National Assembly to become public, to be fair, to lead to the rise and approval of competent candidates who ultimately have an impeccable reputation and to govern the judiciary as they really should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u92	Honourable Members, Madam President! Since Mr. Delchev was given the opportunity to speak, I guess I'll have that opportunity too. Although the text is supported by the Temporary Commission, to clarify that both I and my colleagues Philip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev have submitted detailed procedures for the selection of bodies that are in the competence of Parliament and independent regulators. It's not our offer. It's a civil society organization. I have submitted the proposal to the Institute for Modern Policy. I would like to say this for correctness to this non-governmental organization. The two colleagues Philip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev submitted a proposal to the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives. These are all non-governmental organizations that have a cause for ensuring publicity and transparency in the work of Parliament. After all, the Temporary Parliamentary Commission adopted more laconical rules that did not write the procedure in detail, but there were statements from all parliamentary groups on political will about each procedure having additional Adhok rules to ensure sufficient publicity at all stages of the entire procedure. We supported the proposal of the Reformation Block, which was made during the meeting of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission. Even though it's made on the right, we think it's resonant, it's included in the final report. Yes, we must take into account the mistakes we have made in previous national meetings, including in the previous year and two months. Although there were a lot of public procedures, some of them could not complete successfully and because of the lack of political will to have a candidate elected. I give an example of the Chief Judicial Inspector, who GERB failed to choose in his mandate, which we failed to choose in the mandate of the government broadcast by BSP left Bulgaria. I hope that this Parliament will have more responsibility, more desire to finalise this important procedure, and also all the other elections that will be on the agenda before the National Assembly. After all, the texts of the Temporary Committee are correct. I think they can be supported in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. And I join the desire for this Parliament to succeed in making those personnel decisions that really weigh on us, especially with regard to the Chief Judicial Inspector. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! I think it's appropriate, since these hearings are public, in para. 4 to be added the text: The hearings are public and are broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio (Български National Radio) as it is a matter of publicity for the hearing of higher state posts. In order to avoid any speculation, this should be made public to Bulgarian citizens as well. So where-to-where less important texts for a hearing we put to be broadcast through the channels of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. He even claimed certain frequencies. When it comes to appointing senior officials, I think this will be the right thing to do, and I hope you will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u95	Mr. Bayraktarov, please formulate your proposal one more time. I couldn't write it down.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u96	The hearings are public. The point is removed and added.. are broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u97	Thank you. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! In fact, I take the floor for a reply, but I would like to state the principled support for Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. The line is in this. I have allowed myself in committee to say it.. however much we have reached consensus on the rules for public hearing, we should be relatively skeptical and I would say........................................................................................ In this situation, adding publicity, they are already broadcast. So far, they've been broadcast within the parliament or by the media they've said. They're broadcasting. Another question is what is the protection of data and the positions of applicants, which they would like us to say, not to be sufficiently public. We assume that this institute is primarily directed to the audience. I offer my support, but with these reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u99	Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u100	I'm not gonna use the back. I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u101	You're withdrawing him. Any other MPs? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 89 on the committee report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u102	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 90. Art. 90. (1) Where the Constitutional Court has designated the National Assembly as an interested party in a constitutional case to challenge a law or other act, the President of the National Assembly shall immediately inform the committee responsible. (2) The committee responsible may adopt an opinion to the Constitutional Court within 14 days. In this case, the opinion necessarily reflects the reasons of the National Assembly for the adoption of the act challenged before the Constitutional Court. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall forward the opinion to the Constitutional Court. (4) If the Constitutional Court, by its decision, declares a separate law or other act or part thereof unconstitutional, the National Assembly shall settle the legal consequences arising within two months of the entry into force of the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u103	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Vote art. 90. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u104	There has been a proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova, which the Commission has generally supported and is reflected in art. There was also a debate on it. Chapter 9 "Parliamentary control." The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Ninth.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u105	We're voting Chapter Nine. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. 91.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u106	Vote art. 91. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u107	Under art. 90 has received a proposal from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 letter (s) and for the rest of it it is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 90, which becomes Art. 92: Art. 92. (1) The questions shall be addressed through the President of the National Assembly in writing at the latest 48 hours before the beginning of the meeting to which the ministers should answer. The questions must be precise and clearly formulated, contain no personal attacks and insulting qualifications and be signed by the National Representative. Where a Member of the National Assembly asks a question summarised by meetings and requests of civil organisations and citizens, this may be noted in the written question. The answer may be oral or written. The answer is only oral when the people's representative has expressed an express desire to do so. The answer shall be written where the national representative has expressly expressed a written wish to do so or when a question concerning personal rights or interests is raised. The written response period is 7 days. A Member of the National Assembly who asks an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the reply shall be 7 days from the date of the request for the change and shall not be postponed by the Minister. The questions and answers to them shall be submitted in paper and electronic form and shall be registered in a public register without delay in Parliamentary Control and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section "Parliamentary Control." (2) The President of the National Assembly shall immediately inform the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister of the questions received and of the day and time of the meeting to which he must answer. (3) The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister to whom the question is addressed may request a delay of the reply, but by no more than 7 days from the time limit set under para. 1. (4) Where the national representative who asks the question is absent from the meeting for respectable reasons, the answer shall be postponed. The absence for respectable reasons shall be certified by a letter from the Member of the National Assembly to the President of the National Assembly by 18:00 on the day preceding the parliamentary control. (5) When a written answer to the question is received, the Chair shall communicate it at the next parliamentary control meeting and shall give a copy thereof to the Member of the National Assembly. The written questions, as well as the written answers themselves, shall apply to the stenographic minutes of the plenary sitting. (6) Members of the National Assembly may withdraw their questions in writing by 18:00 a.m. of the day preceding parliamentary control. The President of the National Assembly shall inform the relevant Minister thereof. (7) When the parliamentary groups have benefited from their right under art. 51, para. 6, parliamentary control time shall be extended by the same amount.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u108	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u109	My fellow Members, Madam President, during the meeting of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission, I have never heard an explanation from the importers as to what needs to change the principle of asking questions in parliamentary control, respectively why it is necessary for an oral reply from a minister to be explicitly stated by the Member of the National Assembly. The question is not insignificant because it is one of the main functions of the National Assembly, which is attached in art. 62 of the Constitution: The National Assembly implements the legislative power and exercises the control. As it became clear from yesterday's debate, the understanding that parliamentary control is issues from the MP to the minister and that this is a matter of relations between a separate MP and a separate minister is incorrect and does not have its foundations in the Bulgarian Constitution. Parliamentary control not the Friday with the half-empty hall in which the MP and the minister speak, this is the function, one of Parliament's most important functions, to exercise control over the actions of the executive. The point of this control is precisely in its publicity, in the possibility that the ministers' answers, of the prime minister to be made public by the parliamentary tribune. For citizens, otherwise, there is the possibility of getting information in writing from one ministry or another or an executive body on one or another matter that they are interested in. I have no explanation as to why one established in the 25-year history of parliament practice is to ask the MPs questions that are clear that they will receive an oral answer, in this Parliament it must be reversed. I'm putting aside the fact of what the Al itself sounds like. 1, but I do not understand the desire of the MPs from GERB to restrict parliamentary control, to limit parliamentary debates, to restrict legislative activity. At least until now, we haven't heard a reasonable explanation. I am making a formal proposal the sentence proposed by GERB and was supported by the Temporary Parliamentary Commission The answer is only oral when the people's representative has expressed an express desire for it to fall out of the final proposal of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission. I expect an answer from this tribune, I also expect this yet another attack against parliamentaryism, which is trying to push GERB, to find no support in the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u110	Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Manolova, nothing changes with the text as proposed by the Commission. The only thing that is meant is to be able to monitor a limit which is a little further in the Rules of Procedure, but it is also a 25-year tradition for the number of questions that can be put by the Members of the National Assembly. And in order for there to be no more speculation that this sentence reverses the parliamentary tradition, practice on Friday or on any day of control, I call on GERB colleagues to support Mrs. Manolova's proposal to drop the second sentence, the answer is oral when the people's representative has expressed an express desire to do so. Because there really was no other logic and there was no other meaning when this was done, only I repeat, to facilitate the administration when it has to ensure that the questions made by the people's representative correspond to the.. text - two below, which will be reported shortly in the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, I ask our colleagues from GERB to support the dropping of this sentence, so that there is no speculation that GERB reverses parliamentary control that GERB does not want to allow the MPs, Parliament to control the ministers, that GERB is doing something unheard of in the 25-year history of parliamentaryism so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u112	Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I, as an importer and other colleagues, will also withdraw this proposal on this point. In order to finally make it clear what is the text of art. 92, para. 1. I strongly state, as Mrs Tsacheva stressed, that never the parliamentary group of GERB intended to restrict in any way the MPs from oral or written question, such as interpretation, wrong and misleading plenary, media presence and society, has been trying to do Mrs. Maya Manolova for a week. I pay attention to you, Mrs. Manolova, that remains the order. I hope you have read our proposal several times and understood its meaning, all the more so that it has already been explained to you repeatedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. A hole? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u115	Honourable Members, Madam President! I would have saved myself the backdrop if the lines by GERB had limited themselves to the one pronounced by Mrs. Tsacheva. Yes, I am pleased that Mrs. Tsacheva has managed to persuade the GERB group not to support this proposal, but after Mrs. Atanasova's reply, I have no way to keep my mouth shut. Today we really see a reversal in GERB's position. They withdrew and gave up other proposals that were supported during the Temporary Commission. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u116	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u117	Let's hear it in plenary. For example, the reduction of speeches during a second reading from five to three minutes. GERB in plenary gave up this proposal. GERB did not support its own proposal to move personal explanations at the end of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u118	Mrs. Manolova, please do the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u119	I am expressing my satisfaction with this, and in fact there was clearly a sense of yesterday's speech by the chairman of our group, Mikhail Mikov, who explained to the plenary the functions and importance of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u120	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u121	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u122	My fellow Members, I hope you have understood the meaning of our motion's withdrawal. Madam President, my reply is to you in the manner of conduct, as it seems that in the left half of this House there are colleagues who cannot reflect on the text read several times.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u123	They're gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u124	Repeatedly withdrawn and requested by representatives of our parliamentary group, and I ask that you do not, in these cases, give the floor to such Members with such questions to the plenary. The time has been wasted on everyone, Madam President, with the opportunity for Mrs Manolova to recite already adopted texts from the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I take note. I give the floor to Mr. Hamid for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I will limit this speech only to expressing my satisfaction with Mrs Tsacheva's statement on this issue. I was heading in another direction, but we also believe that changing the principle of oral beginning in writing is a factual escape from parliamentary control. Although I am pleased with Ms. Tsacheva's statement, I would like to condemn the attempt made to hide the government, the ministers from society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u127	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Here's a line for you, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u128	Dear Mr Hamid, from whom to hide the ministers of government? Yesterday we listened to how on Friday we should attend parliamentary control representatives of the opposition, take away their word, take away their opportunity, cannot speak, can not ask, some tricks from evenings,. Look how many people BSP has gone, they're 7-8 people. Is that what you said yesterday? Since when do they hide them? The ones that aren't there? There is no way to hide the ministers from those Coalition Levia Bulgaria lawmakers who are not in plenary on Friday. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u129	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Second line? [[Noise and lines.]] Order, please. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u130	Madam President, my line is if it's such a big problem to write down what kind of answer you want from the municipality that I come from, it's okay to write down whether you want a written or oral answer. It must be very difficult for you to do this thing. Not to mention that, you opposition colleagues yesterday did not understand that we did you a service with the quorum for parliamentary control. Because if we go out and there's no quorum, how are you gonna ask the opposition questions? [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here's a third line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Hamid, I accept your arguments, although you also do not take into account the fact that we have withdrawn this proposal only and only not to sound in plenary the accusation that GERB is changing parliamentary traditions. I would like to make you a note regarding the opinion expressed by you that the Constitution in art. 90 enables the MPs to be entitled to questions and questions to the Council of Ministers or to individual ministers who are obliged to answer. Nowhere in the Constitution is the possibility of oral beginning, as you have expressed. The constitution is very clear in its texts. The questions are always written, Mr. Hamid, the answer is different written or oral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u133	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u134	Thank you, Madam President. I will start from the back, dear Mrs. Atanasova, and I have read correctly and expressed from here the consideration of this fact by saying that I condemn the attempt to hide, not the proposal. Mr. Lazarov, thank you for your reply, let us not forget that parliamentary control is communication between the citizens of this country and the ministers, not communication between MPs and ministers. In this sense, the direct transmission of parliamentary control on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio and the opportunity for all citizens to hear the answers, which is what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u135	Thank you. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Administrations for the opinion and for Ms. Tsacheva's call she has clearly understood what is hidden in this proposal. Ecclesiastes says that the wisest is time because it reveals the value of everything. For these, there are not two days the importers have clearly revealed that parliamentaryism has absolutely no value for them. Parliamentary control, according to their proposal here Mrs. Atanasova said only one intention that she would withdraw this proposal is good to stand up and do it here from this platform. Under this proposal, parliamentary control becomes written. You could have gone a lot further than that. We could have corresponded to a social network, set up a closed group, in Skype, in Facebook.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u137	I thought you said you were pulling him out. Why is that...?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u138	...or somewhere out of the public's sight, outside the direct transmission of BNT and BNR, to correspond with the executive authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u139	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u140	There is really no logical explanation yet as to why this proposal has been made. The only logic is to provide a limitless total comfort to the executive. Honourable Members, we are not talking about technology here, we are talking about a basic principle of the need for publicity in the work of the National Assembly. Along with the remaining package of measures directed against the opposition, Mrs. Atanasova let go and said that in general when the President of the National Assembly sees one of the opposition, immediately to take away his word from you in this direction was almost a statement, so along with the rest of the package of measures that you proposed and some of them were not accepted and others are subject to discussion about limiting the legislative activity under art. 93, para. 3, and para. 7 To limit parliamentary control with this proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u141	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u142	...about supervision...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u143	How exactly does it limit itself?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u144	You know very well how to limit it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u145	Explain to the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u146	I'll explain. If you want, I can give you a personal lecture on this matter. [[Strong noise and shouting from GERB's Parliamentary Group: "E-e-e-e!."]] You limit the possibility of parliamentary supervision of the activities of independent regulators. I address the other colleagues, colleagues from the Patriotic Front, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms from the ABB! Please, colleagues, do not remain in history by supporting such an absolutely antiparliamentary behavior and proposal. Thank you. [[Comments from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u147	Thank you, Mr. Popov. First line, Mrs. Tsacheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u148	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Popov, it is nice for the MPs to prepare their speeches in advance for the plenary. I remain with the feeling that you have prepared well. But the negotiator also needs to monitor how the debate is developing, because forgive me, but in the last two thirds of your speech you were simply not on the subject. I repeat, it has never, at any time, been a matter of limiting parliamentary control in its part in terms of the answers of the ministers and the Prime Minister. This always happens orally here in this room, in front of BNT cameras and the mic of the National Radio. Once again, you have not listened to me, Mrs. Manolova understood me, you do not understand me, the only reason why the importers have made this proposal is to be able to monitor the number of questions that are asked in a plenary week because there is such a limit in the text. That's the only motive. No one, in any way, has ever thought that parliamentary control could be limited. Because of this, by preparing, do not suggest to the media and through them to the Bulgarian citizens things that exist only in your mind and imagination. [[Replications of MP Maya Manolova, rapporteur Desislava Atanasova and MPs from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u149	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u150	My fellow Members, by congratulating Mrs. Tsacheva for her position with the call for colleagues from GERB to withdraw this proposal, I take the opportunity to fully support Mrs. Manolova's position. Mrs. Maya Manolova's position is absolutely correct, because this is a voluntary or involuntary experience, I stress, perhaps an involuntary attempt to reach Parliamentaryism. And parliamentaryism yesterday during the discussion of parliamentary control was already overrun. Last night, with the vote not to have a quorum during parliamentary control, parliamentaryism was overrun. I personally voted against this proposal, which is a lack of quorum during parliamentary control. That is why Bulgarian people, Bulgarian citizens have such low trust in us politicians. That is why the rating of the National Assembly is so low. Very please, colleagues from GERB, if this is really unconscious, do not repeat it again. Because it's not a perfectly small mistake. The ministers must be here, they must answer our questions orally with their presence. Thank you. [[Replications of MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Velizar Enchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u151	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Atanasov, here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. I'll take the floor for a third line. Mrs. Manolova, today's costume is very nice, but yesterday was better, you know. The light blue suits you better. [[Audience in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u153	Please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u154	I'm sorry, I'm sorry! I am surprised how such arrogance can arise from the people who are heirs of the former Communist Party? Mrs. Manolova, by the way, has just made a confession that you have not all heard, namely that there are 25 years of parliamentaryism in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u155	Mr. Atanasov, please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u156	... which is an argument from the contrary and means that there was no parliamentaryism before, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u158	So be humble, stop wasting parliamentary time here with...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u159	Mr. Atanasov, please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u160	...with petty bickering, with which you have a great sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u161	Thank you! Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u162	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u163	No, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, in your reply, you have only confirmed what I have said and my concerns. [[noise and lines]] that the importers and rulers have taken a package of measures to limit publicity, parliamentaryism, figuratively speaking, to silence the opposition. [[Noise and lines.]] You said yourself...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u165	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u166	Further, the Rules provide for a reduction of the possibility of obtaining oral responses from the respective ministers. Dear Mr. Atanasov, admirates for your knowledge "Aesthetics and fashions," apparently in DS there is such a branch and such a profile.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u167	Please, on the subject. Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u168	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u169	Mrs. Manolova is entitled to a personal explanation, then I will give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u170	How is she offended that they marked the color of the suit?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u172	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Atanasov, you have lost the right to be any judge of me or my colleagues with yesterday's conduct in plenary. You, Mr. Atanasov, have practically become an accomplice to GERB in the demise and eradication of parliamentary control. You, who have always been a judge for Parliament to exercise control over the security services and the use and application of special intelligence means, have become an accomplice to GERB in limiting this Parliament's opportunity. For the first time, a parliamentary committee that controls the services will be dominated by the ruling party. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u173	Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u174	Mrs. Manolova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u175	And you've become an accomplice to this! You're off the hook. [[Noise and lines from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u176	Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u177	You've gone against the principle you've been defending... [[Noise and lines from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u178	Please, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u179	... You betrayed the people who wanted more transparency on the street... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u180	Please, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u181	...and control of the services.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u182	Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u183	You were to become on this platform yesterday, when I repeatedly called on you to do so and explain to the Bulgarian citizens why you removed the effective parliamentary control of the security services. It's your moral responsibility, too. You have no right to speak from the parliamentary tribune on the subject of Parliamentary Control, because yesterday you were compromised.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u184	Mrs. Manolova, please! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please calm down! I give the floor to Mr. Atanasov. He's entitled to a personal response.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u185	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u186	Please! I'd like order in the hall and a little quiet. [[Extending loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u187	Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor for nothing else, but because for me personally it is extremely insulting, sir I did not remember your name, to claim that I had something to do with State Security. State security was an instrument of the party in which you are a member to violate the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens for 45 years. [[Loud noise, BBC applause.]] Mass of people don't know where their graves are. And that's shameless, you know?! And I ask you very much to know from now on that I am one of the people that I have been all along since 1989 an absolute opponent of the repressive regime and of the repressive authorities. You should know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u188	And before 1989?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u189	And don't let that happen. Otherwise, Mrs. Manolova, I compliment you, you scold me. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u190	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. [[Extending loud noise and lines.]] I give the floor to Mr. Mestan. Then I'll give you the floor for procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Replies from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Please! I'm asking for some peace and order. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u191	If I may, Madam President, if the request is under procedure, there is an advantage over the order of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u192	You asked for the floor before that, which is why I'm giving it to you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u194	Please, please, sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u195	Mrs. Chairman! [[Executing noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please don't be mad at me. I'm ready to take my turn, if that's what the Rules suggest. But because...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u196	The rules say otherwise, at least for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u197	...the chairman says it was my turn, I keep going. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I believe that this dispute is to a considerable extent unnecessary because I am stepping on the analysis of what is practically changing. According to the text in force, if the national representative has not expressed express will to reply in writing, the answer shall be given in oral form. There is now a text that says: "If the people's representative expresss the express will that the answer be written, it is given in writing. At the same time, there is a text that says that if the will of the people's representative is for oral response, therefore the answer is due in oral form. What's the problem? Who can overcome my will to respond orally in plenary? Then what are we arguing about?! However, there is one problem in the text, Mrs. Tsacheva, and I am addressing you because if there is something to be argued about in the Commission's version, it is in the Appendix that the answer is written when the national representative has expressed an explicit written wish to do so or, notice when a question concerning personal rights or interests is raised. There was no such text in the rules in force so far. I ask: who determines whether my question concerns personal rights or interests? Who is the President of the National Assembly? There's already a risk here. Mrs. Tsacheva, I'm addressing you, if you like, take advantage of the right to a personal explanation. Because very often the matter really does concern a personal case, but it, being personal, may be an example of a public issue. In this sense, please, if anything else needs to change in the text, everything else does not matter to us, because at the end of the day, the minister will respond in the form stated by the people's representative, who exercises his right to control. I propose in this part that we put an end to this unnecessary dispute and move forward, that we do not waste parliamentary time. Regarding the right of the President of the National Assembly, as the first among equals, to assess whether the issue concerns personal interests and rights and whether it is socially significant, there is already a problem here. Thank you. I propose that the expression.. or when a matter concerning personal rights or interests is raised..................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u198	Thank you. The line is Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u199	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mestan, it is my opinion that this text extends the possibility of parliamentary control by the Member of the National Assembly to the respective Minister. The general principle of parliamentary control is that MPs address to the Prime Minister, to his alternates issues of an up-to-date nature which are of public interest. If there is a question in which there are questions which concern the Member of the National Assembly and they are of a more personal nature, the answer should be refused at this time because it is assessed that it is not of public interest. My understanding is that the people's representative has the opportunity to receive a reply from the Minister, but with a view, if you will, and the personal freedom of the people's representative, it is correct that this should happen in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u200	If that's what you mean by personal interest, I'm withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u201	It is a written answer where there is a personal interest, because otherwise on the basis of practice, the rules that act should not be allowed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, come in, you asked for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u203	He withdrew his offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u204	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Mestan, I use the line to thank you for bringing reason into plenary and giving colleagues the opportunity to hear what we had in mind when we proposed this text. I understand that you are withdrawing the proposal you have made, although this text existed in the Forty-second National Assembly, possibly with Mrs. Maya Manolova. [[Noise and cheering: "E-e-e-e!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u205	Well, please, calm down! Third line? Mr. Mestan, you have the floor for the coat. You're giving up. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u206	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing a procedure to end the debate on this point. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u207	I put to the vote Ms. Karayancheva's proposal to end the debate on this point. They voted 123 MPs: 103, against 14, abstention 6. With this, the debate on this point is suspended. We can move on to a vote. During the debate the proposal was withdrawn by Mrs. Atanasova on the content of art. 90, except for sentence five: The answer is only oral when the people's representative has expressed a personal desire to do so. I put to the vote Mrs. Manolova's proposal, supported by Mrs. Tsacheva, for dropping this text from art. 92: The answer is only oral when the people's representative has expressed an express desire to do so. Vote 126 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Now I'm putting the whole text to the vote. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. Sustained. I'm calling a half-hour break at 11.45. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u208	I ask the MPs to take their seats. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u209	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking procedure the way it is. I insisted on taking it before the break several times, tried it for 20 minutes, raised my hand, called that I wanted a procedure. I was never given this opportunity by the President of the National Assembly at the time. Therefore, I would like to ask you to make a note to the Vice-Presidents that, when a procedure is requested in the manner of conduct, it should be given immediately to the relevant Members who want this procedure. Furthermore, before the break was accepted, I believe a gross violation of the Rules of Procedure by allowing for a personal explanation. And Mr. Atanasov took the floor for a personal explanation. In his personal explanation, he offended me. I also asked for a personal explanation, but I was not given the opportunity. I don't know why. If I were given the opportunity, my colleague Atanasov would understand that he kept me from thinking that God was part of the system of State Security. On the contrary, he is a major rider, a wrestler, a victim of this system. As such, however, he knows closely the primos, the activities, the structure of this system. This was expressed in my statement the address to him regarding his reply. It is as such that he should know this system, not as part of it. And last but not least, given his conformism in all these texts that concern publicity, responsibility, I believe there is Stockholm syndrome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u210	Mr. Popov, in the first part of your procedure in the manner of conduct, I declare that both the Members of the National Assembly and I, as Chairman, and the Vice-Presidents, are obliged to follow the rules which you violated with the second part of your speech. I understand that it can essentially be understood as giving an apology to Mr. Atanasov or specifying what you could say. However, it is not good when you ask the Presidents to respect the Rules on the ground of conduct in breach of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u211	Mrs. Atanasova, we are listening to you. 91.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u212	A proposal has been made by the MPs Delchev and Slavov in art. Reg. 91, para. 2 the number..2. to be replaced by.3................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. There has been a proposal from the MPs Atanasova and a group. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 91, which becomes Art. 93. Art. 93 (1) The Members of the National Assembly may register oral questions by complying with the requirements of art. 103, para. 1. (2) The time for the presentation of the questions shall be up to 2 minutes. (3) The response of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister shall be up to 3 minutes. The MP who asked the question is entitled to a reply within 2 minutes, and the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister, is also entitled to a reply within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u213	Statements? There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Delchev and Slavov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 102 MPs: 37 against 26, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the editorial of art. 93 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u214	Under art. 92 proposals were received from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports them in principle. The Commission supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version of art. 92, which becomes Art. 94. Art. 94. (1) Members of the National Assembly shall make inquiries to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or to the Minister. (2) The questions shall concern the main countries of the activities of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the individual ministers or the administration for which they are responsible. (3) Questions concerning the general policy of the government shall be addressed to the Prime Minister. (4) The Members of the National Assembly may register oral questions by complying with the requirements of art. 103, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u215	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u216	Thank you, Madam President. In relation to the texts previously adopted, I believe that in art. 94, para. The 1st sentence should sound as follows: The National Representatives are asking questions to members of the Council of Ministers, because in the previous paragraphs of the votes the Council of Ministers is thus written "members of the Council of Ministers.".....................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u217	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Honourable Members of Parliament, for symmetry in the texts of the Rules of Procedure, since previous texts have adopted not to specify the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister, and with the general concept of members of the Council of Ministers, I think that Mr Popov's proposal is correct. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's editorial proposal for editing para. 1 which takes account of general compliance with the terms of the Rules. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the full version of art. 94 with the newly adopted decision on para. 1. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u218	Under art. 93 was proposed by Atanasova and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn on the drop-out of the expression by 18:00 p.m. of the day preceding parliamentary control and is supported in the rest of it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 93, which becomes Art. 95: Art. 95. (1) The questions shall be answered within 14 days of their registration. The answer may be oral or written. The answer is only oral when the people's representative has expressed an express desire to do so. The answer must be written when the people's representative who made the question expressed an express desire to do so. A Member of the National Assembly having asked an oral question may request in writing a change of the type of response in writing by 18:00 of the day preceding parliamentary control. The time limit for the reply shall be 7 days from the date of the request for the change and shall not be postponed by the Minister. The requests and replies to them shall be submitted in paper and electronic form and shall be registered in a public register without delay in Parliamentary Control and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly in the section "Parliamentary Control." (2) The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers or the individual ministers may request a extension of the term, but not more than 7 days from the term laid down in para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u219	Statements? Mr. Popov, for a sentence third, you must make a request we will support it. We're listening, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u220	Thank you, Madam President. On the fact that we just voted on art. The answer is not accepted there only when the people's representative has expressed an express desire to do so, I suggest that the same change be made here. To drop sentence three.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u221	And al. 2 to become the members of the Council of Ministers............................................................................................... [[Definitions between MP Philip Popov and Chairman Tsetska Tsacheva.]] I get it, you're not doing it formally, there's no such proposal. Explain to Mr. Iankov why. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal, which is in systematic connection with the way in which we adopted the questions to be addressed; and as regards the questions to drop a sentence third of art. 95, para. 1, namely, that the answer is oral only when the people's representative has expressed an express desire to do so. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the full version of art. 95. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u222	Under art. 95 was proposed by Atanasova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 95, which becomes Art. 97. Under art. 96 The proposal has also been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 96, which becomes Art. 98.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u223	There is one text without suggestions on it. This is art. 94 by importer, which becomes art. 96. I put to the vote the members reported on the report with numbers 96, 97 and 98. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u224	Under art. 97 a proposal has been made by Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 97, which becomes Art. 99: Art. 99. (1) Once the National Assembly shall proceed to the examination of the questioning, the importer may develop it within 3 minutes. The answer to the question is in five minutes. (2) After the answer to the question, the national representative who asked him shall have the right to ask no more than two supplementary questions within 2 minutes in total and the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister shall answer within 3 minutes. In the case of written answer to the questioning, supplementary questions shall not be allowed. (3) No debate shall be held on the answer to the question and no lines shall be allowed. The people's representative who made the question may express his attitude to the answer within 2 minutes. There is no reply from the Minister under any preposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u225	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 99. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u226	Under art. 98 has received a motion which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 98, which becomes Art. 100. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 99, which becomes art. 101: Art. 101. (1) Upon the proposal of one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly on the questioning shall become debates and a decision shall be adopted. The proposals for a debate, together with a draft decision following the response to the inquiry and registration, shall be submitted to the President during the plenary session pending its completion. (2) Debates shall be scheduled for the next plenary session designated for parliamentary control. After the debate is scheduled by the President of the National Assembly, MPs cannot withdraw their signatures from the proposal. The debates shall be held in the presence of the Minister concerned in accordance with the procedure set out in Chapter 7 and shall last for one hour. The time for discussion shall be allocated among the parliamentary groups depending on their numbers, with 5 minutes for the smallest, and for the MPs not members of a parliamentary group, a total of up to 5 minutes. (3) Projects for a decision may also be offered by the Members of the National Assembly. Where there is more than one draft decision, they shall be voted in accordance with the order of their entry. The vote shall take place in accordance with Article 1. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u227	Statements? I won't. Vote art. Art. 100, Art. 101. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u228	There has been a proposal from the MPs Atanasova and a group that has been withdrawn. The Commission supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version of art. 100, which becomes art. 102: Art. 102. (1) The National Assembly shall hear questions, questions and answers on them for the last three hours of the meeting every Friday, unless it decides otherwise. (2) First shall be the Prime Minister, after him, the Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, with a rotational principle applied in the response of the ministers. (3) Questions and questions to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Prime Minister shall be asked in accordance with their procedure. (4) For questions and questions on the same topic the answer of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers shall be common, applying the provisions of art. 93 and 99. (5) The Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister who has not responded within the legal period shall be obliged to appear in person to the National Assembly within 10 days and to explain the failure to comply with his obligation. (6) The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister concerned shall respond personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u229	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 102. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u230	Under art. 101 proposals were received from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 101, which becomes Art. 103: Art. 103. (1) The Members of the National Assembly may register no more than two oral questions or questions for one plenary week. (2) A Member of the National Assembly may not ask a question or a question which has already been answered. (3) In cases where the questions and questions do not comply with the requirements of these Rules or are not addressed to a member of the Council of Ministers whose portfolio of management is the subject of the question or the question, the President shall inform the Member of the National Assembly of the non-compliance within three days. Within the same time limit, the notified Member of the National Assembly shall be entitled to challenge in writing the admissibility of the question or the inquiry. After consulting the Conference of Presidents on the contested eligibility, the President shall take a final decision notified to the national representative. In the case of a decision to accept a question or a question, the time limit for reply under art. 92, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 95, para. 1 shall be determined from the date of the final decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u231	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u232	Madam President, honourable Members! We object to GERB's proposal, which has been adopted by the Temporary Commission, to limit the questions that a Member of the National Assembly may ask to two questions or questions in general. We insist that the current regime be maintained because it did not create problems and enabled the MPs in a specific week, in which there are really topical topics that excite Bulgarian citizens to ask questions and questions to be answered in Friday's control. Since, through some complex references to texts, in this case, I could not make a proposal between first and second readings exactly in this text, what I propose is simply to formally increase the number of possible questions and questions or to record that the people's representative can register no more than two oral questions and two oral questions in one plenary week.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u233	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, you mentioned some time ago about the changes we have voted on in the former article. 90 that they were made precisely in order to monitor the possibility of asking oral questions. That's where we made a change. We should also keep the old rule here, now the rule in force. Indeed, in this way, the possibility of parliamentary control is limited more or less. I understand the opinion and motives of the importers. Please, let us really not restrict this right and this obligation, more precisely, to the National Assembly. You know that it has two main functions: legislative and parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u235	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A line? There are no lines. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me point out that the limit to the number of questions and questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u237	Lips! Lips!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u238	Yes, we are talking about the oral answers, as this is important at the moment, was introduced in the current Rules of Procedure in the last term to two questions and up to two questions within a week. This is explained in order to allow more MPs to participate, if they wish, in parliamentary control and not to shut down and deactuate, because we have witnessed this all these years. Now a double limitation of this limit is proposed to two questions or questions per week. I understand that in the larger number of parliamentary groups, arguments can be found, although the number of MPs implementing the parliamentary control is the same In other words, how will internal groups be organised is a matter of their judgment, but if we consider parliamentary control as the right of MPs to contact the government, to raise questions and to require answers, the situation remains unchanged. I offer your attention a compromise solution, if you will, of course, allow, Madam President, as this is a little more than a purely editorial proposal, in para. 1 The national representative may register no more than two questions and one question. Questions spend more time and if two questions are maintained and no more than one question, I think this will reflect both the current situation and will preserve, to a large extent, the possibilities of parliamentary control. If we accept this proposal as a procedural proposal, despite changing the content of the text and putting it to the vote, I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly to support it. I hope my colleagues will also accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u239	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u240	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stoilov, yes, you rightly said, the idea is to have more MPs participate in parliamentary control, as well as in the Regulations of the Forty-second National Assembly for the first time this restriction has been made. Your offer is reasonable as a compromise. This really gives the opportunity and yet time to somewhat limit itself. We'll support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u241	Thank you. A hole? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Stoilov, would you like to use the back? No. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposal made by Mr. Stoilov. We think it's reasonable, balanced. On the one hand, it sufficiently extends the scope and the opportunity for Members of the National Assembly to address questions and questions within the framework of Friday's parliamentary control and, on the other hand, does not allow abuse of this right, and we think that such a balance will be good. We accept this proposal and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u243	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mrs. Manolova's proposal, which proposes editing of para. 1, i.e. no more than two questions and two oral questions in one week. Voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: 33, Against 47, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal. 1 to read: The National Representative may register no more than two questions and/or one oral question for one week. Voting mode. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Cancel the vote. Colleagues, only with regard to the alliances, let's redefine the text. The National Representative may register no more than two questions and one question. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Do not interpret that the union must go on two questions with a question, so I said and/or. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] All right, I accept, Mr. Stoilov. Only the union remains. The National Representative may register no more than two questions and one oral question for one week. Voting mode. Vote 107 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full version of art. 103 with the just accepted change in para. 1. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u244	By the wording of art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 104, there is a proposal from the gentlemen Imamov, Kazak and Hamid: ???????? 102, para. 1, the words:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. There has been a proposal from the MPs Manolova, Popov and Georgiev: ???????? 102, para. In the last one and a half hours, the expression "In the last one and a half hours" is replaced by "In the last three hours" and the expression "the first Wednesday" is replaced by "the first Thursday" and "the first Thursday" is replaced by "the first Thursday." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 104: Art. 104. (1) In the last hour and a half of the meeting every first Wednesday of each month, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister shall appear before the National Assembly and shall answer up-to-date oral questions relating to the general policy of the government addressed by the MPs at the meeting itself. The questions referred may not contain requests for detailed numerical data. (2) The right to two up-to-date oral questions shall have every single parliamentary group, and Members of Parliament who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions in total. (3) The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister to whom a question has been addressed shall answer immediately after the question has been asked. In the event of the absence of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers for respectable reasons, the President of the National Assembly shall, in agreement with them, determine the meeting to which they will respond to up-to-date oral questions. (4) The order to ask topical oral questions under para. 1 shall be determined according to the number of parliamentary groups in descending order, the last in line being a Member of the National Assembly not belonging to a parliamentary group. Asking the second questions is in the same order after the procedure on the first questions is exhausted. (5) The provisions of art. 93, para. Two and three. (6) Parliamentary groups shall not avail themselves of their right under art. 51, para. 6 in time for answers to current oral questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u245	Statements? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u246	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the Patriotic Front, I would like to propose a change, as we believe that an hour and a half is not enough time. In addition, the procedure itself is clumsy, so we propose that a compromise option be recorded within two hours. 1. Not until one and a half hours, but until the last two hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u247	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u248	Madam President, honourable Members! And we have made a proposal on the duration of the so-called Blitz control. Since there are eight groups in this Parliament, on two issues, there are 16 issues, plus an opportunity for two independent "18 questions," 9 minutes each. That's how we calculate them every three hours. GERB do not want to adopt this proposal. In this sense, it is better every time, which is more than an hour and a half, because obviously an hour and a half will not be enough for 18 questions of MPs. In my opinion, the second part of our proposal, which has been made by other groups, by other MPs, is more important. And it's the time for blitz control to be moved on Thursday. I'm saying why. Every first Wednesday of the month is the only day on which the opposition, and smaller groups who are in the ruling majority, can put their important draft laws and draft decisions on the agenda without voting from the plenary, on the principle of rotation. That is, once every eight months BSP left Bulgaria, ABC, the Patriotic Front, Reformers will have the opportunity of their own point in the legislative programme of parliament. When it comes to eight parliamentary groups, if it stays every first Wednesday, it means that each group, in order to wait for rotation, will have to take eight months. That is, hypothetically, you are putting in your proposal this Wednesday, as the blitz control, which will be supported in two hours, starts at 12:00, the speaking time is greater for eight groups, does not come to a vote. Your bill is being discussed. In eight months your bill will be able to be voted at first reading. In another eight months, you will be able to offer it at second reading and if it is shorter, you will have a chance.. eight and eight are 16, so in 24 months, i.e. in two years you will be able to pass a bill that is important to your parliamentary group. This is one of the most serious proposals that GERB rejects, along with the other restrictive proposal, that every Wednesday each parliamentary group cannot offer a point in the weekly programme, which, however, notice, is included on the agenda with a vote. This is the only guaranteed opportunity on Wednesday a group other than GERB to score its point for discussion. It is not so scary, honourable colleagues of GERB! [[Reply of the National Representative Svilen Ivanov.]] Explaining. In order to rotate the parliamentary groups, it takes eight months.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u249	We don't want you to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u250	Well, you ask, and I'm explaining to you, it takes another eight months to get to the vote. To get to the second reading, eight more months! If the bill is longer, it takes another eight months to complete it. Either way, it is a very important right of opposition and of all parliamentary groups. Please support the proposal, which first appears on the list of proposals made by MPs from the DPS. Pretend we suggested it, both us and the DPS. Let us support him because it is important for all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u251	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is an important proposal that affects the organisation and activities of the National Assembly, especially its plenary sessions. Even I am paying more attention to this part of the proposal, which enables to divide the control made to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers from the initiatives of the parliamentary groups. It would be much better if on Wednesday there was a possibility that every first Wednesday of the month would be set aside for proposals by the parliamentary groups. They can be one, and if it runs out of more, but usually this time reaches to discuss and vote a bill proposed by one parliamentary group, up to two proposals at most. However, before this procedure has been exhausted, the time has come for this control, which is usually called more popular in our case These arguments, which Mrs Manolova put forward to take account of the time, correspond to the actual situation. That is why I think that it will be more convenient for the ministers themselves, because last year's meeting of the Council of Ministers is held on Wednesday. These meetings may sometimes have to last longer and it is not good for them to be interrupted. In addition, you have already made changes that save you some parliamentary time with limiting the possibility of points being submitted to the weekly programme and being rejected, not being able to be offered next week, but only next month. Also limited time for debates between 10 minutes and 30 minutes. Therefore, what is proposed here will not reduce the possibilities for majority legislative activity. We also support the proposals for more time for these answers if the content of para is to be fulfilled. 2 of art. 104 because if we recognise the right of each parliamentary group to ask up to two questions, this cannot happen within an hour and a half. But let the time be determined by the vote. Offers were made for a different period of three hours, two hours, an hour and a half. For me, it is more important to support the proposal that Wednesday remain as a day for the initiative of the parliamentary groups and that Thursday be the control of the prime minister and his deputies. I therefore note that in the vote you have the opportunity to support this separation of the two procedures in two consecutive days from the first week of each month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u253	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Imamov, Kazak and Hamid, which the Commission does not support. They voted 114 MPs: 43, against 52, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Revoting proposal please, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u254	Madam President, honourable Members! This is the proposal that I and the people representative Yanaki Stoilov argued. This is an extremely important proposal for us, because if it is not supported, it will in practice limit the possibility of parliamentary groups to submit their drafts to the weekly programme. I want you all to be aware of what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u255	We're aware of that! What are you questioning?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u256	The parliamentary groups may put their points on the agenda without voting. [[Loud noise and shouting in GERB.]] Will you put some order in the room?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u257	I'm trying to keep up, but it's hard to do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u258	Stop trying to convince us!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u259	It's a re-vote. They voted 115 MPs: 43, against 61, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Popov and Georgiev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 120 MPs: 36, against 62, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mr. Bayraktarov in art. No. 104, para. 1 to be recorded in the last up to two hours of the meeting. Mr. Bajraktarov, which he justified with the number of parliamentary groups and the time needed to have effective blitz control. We vote. They voted 114 MPs: for 83, against 5, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full version of art. 104. They voted 115 MPs: for 93, against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u260	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 105. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 104, which becomes Art. 106. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 105, which becomes Art. 107. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 106, which becomes art. 108.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u261	We vote members with numbers 105 to 108 by importer. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u262	There's been an offer from Mrs. Maya Manolova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 109: Art. 109. (1) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly a summary annual report on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and of the Court of Justice of the European Union in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The report under para. 1 shall be dealt with at a joint meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and in a meeting of the National Assembly within three months of its entry.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u263	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 109. Vote 101 MPs: for 98, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u264	Chapter 10th. "Parliamentary hearings, surveys and polls." The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 10a.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u265	We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u266	There has been a proposal from the MPs Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Article 107 is replaced by the following: 110: Art. 110. (1) The National Assembly or the committees selected by it may carry out hearings, studies and surveys on matters affecting state or public interests. (2) When the National Assembly shall proceed to the hearing, the proposer of the hearing shall make a statement of the questions within 5 minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within 10 minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to 2 questions and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within 2 minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to comment on the answers of the persons heard within 5 minutes of asking all questions. (3) Parliamentary committees may oblige ministers and officials to attend their meetings and answer the questions asked. Interested organisations and citizens may attend these meetings. Within 7 days after the hearing, the relevant committee shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a report on the hearing to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u267	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 110. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u268	The Commission shall support the text for art. 108, which becomes art. 111. The Commission shall support the text for art. 109, which becomes Art. 112. The Commission shall support the text for art. Art. 110, which becomes Art. 110. 113. There is also no objection to the name of Chapter 11 of Parliamentary Monitoring and Control on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u269	We are voting for members with numbers 111 to 113, including on the report and the name of Chapter 11. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u270	The Commission supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version of art. Article 114 125, Chapter eleventh, with the name already in place, "Parliamentary monitoring and control on European Union issues': Art. 114. (1) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union within 7 days of its adoption. (2) The President of the National Assembly shall distribute the annual programme under para. 1 of the Standing Committees. Within three weeks of its receipt, permanent committees, with the exception of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, shall prepare their proposals for the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs, taking into account the European Commission's Work Programme for the relevant year. (3) Within 14 days of the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, taking into account the proposals of the other Standing Committees, shall draw up a draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues. The annual work programme shall contain a list of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union on which the National Assembly supervises and controls. The draft annual work programme shall be discussed and adopted by the National Assembly. (4) The President of the National Assembly shall send to the Council of Ministers the adopted annual work programme under para. 3. (5) In recent circumstances, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds may propose, on its own initiative or on a proposal from other Standing Committees, additions to the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs, which shall be adopted in accordance with para. 3. Art. 115. (1) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly a framework position on the draft act of an institution of the European Union included in the annual work programme under art. 114, para. 3, within three weeks of the decision of the Council on European Affairs to the Council of Ministers to approve the allocation of the act. (2) In the event of circumstances requiring changes in the initial Bulgarian position, the Council of Ministers shall promptly inform the National Assembly of these circumstances and of changes in the position. Art. 116. (1) The President of the National Assembly within the term laid down in art. 74, para. 1 allocates to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and to the competent permanent committees the framework position submitted by the Council of Ministers under art. 115, para. 1 and the draft of the act. The draft act shall be provided by the database under art. 119 and shall apply to the framework item. (2) The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on its own initiative or on a proposal from a permanent committee may impose a parliamentary reserve on a draft act of an institution of the European Union included in the annual work programme under art. 114, para. 3. The Parliamentary Reserve shall oblige the Government not to comment on the draft act in the Council of the European Union until the National Assembly has given its ruling, but no later than the third meeting of the Council preparatory body examining the draft act. Art. 117. (1) The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds shall discuss the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union and the framework positions thereof, taking into account the reports of the competent permanent committees, if any. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds shall draw up a report on the draft act. (2) The Standing Committees shall examine the draft legislative act to comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, subject to the time limit laid down in art. 6 of Protocol (No 2) to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. (3) Where non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity is established in a draft legislative act of an institution of the European Union, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds shall draw up a reasoned opinion. (4) The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds shall present the prepared report or reasoned opinion to the President of the National Assembly, who shall send it to the Council of Ministers and to the Presidents of the European Parliament, to the Council of the European Union and to the European Commission within the time limit laid down in art. 6 of Protocol (No 2) to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Art. 118. The National Assembly shall make a reasoned request to the Council of Ministers to bring an action for non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in a legislative act to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Art. 119. The National Assembly shall organise and maintain a database of draft acts and other documents of the institutions of the European Union. Art. 120. (1) The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds shall hear candidates for positions in the institutions of the European Union proposed by the Council of Ministers. (2) The candidates under para. 1 are required to attend a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and to answer the questions raised by its members. Art. 121. (1) The National Assembly shall participate in the mechanisms for assessing the implementation of the European Union's policies within the area of freedom, security and justice, in Europol's political control and in the assessment of Eurojust's activities. (2) The National Assembly shall participate in the review procedures of the Treaties of the European Union. (3) The National Assembly shall examine applications for accession to the European Union. (4) The National Assembly shall actively participate in the process of interparliamentary cooperation in the European Union. Art. 122. The National Assembly may hold a hearing of the Prime Minister on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in forthcoming meetings of the European Council. Art. 123. The Council of Ministers, acting in accordance with art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution, informs the National Assembly on issues relating to the obligations arising for the Republic of Bulgaria from its membership in the European Union. Art. 124. The Council of Ministers, acting in accordance with art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution, at the beginning of every six-month period of Presidency of the Council of the European Union, submit to the National Assembly a report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union during the previous Presidency and the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria during the current Presidency. The National Assembly is listening to the Prime Minister's report. Art. 125. In the meetings of the National Assembly under art. 122 and 124 may participate without the right to vote Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u271	Speeches on this chapter? I won't. I put to the vote members with numbers 114 to 125 inclusive. Voting mode. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Unanimously accepted the contents of Chapter 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u272	"Chapters 12 and 12 of the National Assembly. " The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter twelfth. The Commission shall propose in Chapter 12 prior to Article 12. Article 123, which becomes Art. 126, to create "Division I.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u273	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of Chapter 12a and the establishment of Section I by the name of the Law. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u274	Article 123. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 123, which becomes Art. 126. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 124, which becomes Art. 127: Art. 127. (1) Members of the National Assembly shall retain their employment position in state or municipal establishments or enterprises, commercial companies having more than 50 percent State or municipal participation in capital or budgetary organisations, taking unpaid leave until the end of their mandate. This also applies to contractors under commercial management contracts with more than 50 per cent state or municipal capital participation, but not more than the end of the contract. (2) Where an act of a state or other body is necessary to restore the post held, the authority concerned shall be obliged to issue it. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 125, which becomes art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 126, which becomes Art. 129.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u275	Statements on the reported texts? I won't. We are voting in Articles 126, 127, 128 and 129. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Go on, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u276	Article 127. A proposal has been made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the draft, as para. 4 of art. 127 is reflected in its systematic place in art. 140, para. 2. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 127, which becomes Art. 130: Art. 130. (1) The Members of the National Assembly may not carry out any other public service or carry out an activity which, according to the law, is incompatible with the situation of a Member of the National Assembly. (2) The Members of the National Assembly shall not be entitled to participate in management or control bodies of commercial companies and cooperatives. (3) The Members of the National Assembly may continue to participate in collective management bodies and scientific bodies of higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, with the exception of sole management positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u277	Statements? Mr. Belemezov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u278	Thank you, Madam President. We, as a political party and a parliamentary group from the very beginning, have been claiming the creation of such an Ethical Code to sign each and every MP. In the course of the discussion, honourable Members, in the Temporary Commission for Drafting the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we unanimously agreed on a version in which no explicit and separate Code of Ethics was drawn up, but rather to create a separate section with ethical rules. That was the motive to withdraw our proposal. In general, the proposal finds meaning and realization in ethical rules, which you will have the opportunity to get acquainted with at a little later stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u279	- What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 130 in the version of the committee's report. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u280	I thought you said you weren't gonna sabotage it. What's going on?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u281	You don't have a quorum!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u282	Colleagues, please? Please show by groups who took part in this vote. [[(After the announcement of the result by groups of applause and shouting from GERB: Bravo, bravo! Maya, you're number one!]] Go on, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u283	Article 128. A proposal came from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the project, but proposes art. 128 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 143. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 129, which becomes Art. 131.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u284	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 131. Please cancel the vote. I shall put to the vote the motion of the committee to reject art. 128. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Now we're voting art. 131. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u285	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that we extend the working day until this item is completed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u286	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 94 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u287	Under art. 130 has a proposal from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. The Commission does not support it. It is as follows: in art. 130, para. 4 the word.. can be replaced by the words............................................................................................ There is a proposal from the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov in art. 130 to create a new para. 5 with the following editing: The Member of the National Assembly shall be subject once a year to a study for the use of narcotics. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the draft, as para. 4 of art. 130 shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 146, para. 3. The Commission shall propose the following version of art. 130, which becomes Art. 132: Art. 132. (1) The Members of the National Assembly shall attend the meetings of the National Assembly and of the committees in which he is elected. (2) A Member of the National Assembly who is required to leave the meeting before it is completed or late for a meeting shall inform the Secretaries on duty or the committee's management. (3) A Member of the National Assembly who is required to be absent for respectable reasons from a meeting of the National Assembly or from a meeting of a committee shall inform the President of the National Assembly in advance, respectively the Chair of the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u288	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal that I and my colleagues have made about once a year the MPs subjecting themselves to a drug text is not an accident. It was designed to open a debate, and also about the Election Code, which needs to be dealt with. We believe that it is not right for MPs who are addicted to drugs and also mentally ill to be in the National Assembly. After all, when we receive a driving licence, we show that we are mentally healthy, and when we manage the state, we are not obliged?! We are proposing this drug test because in recent years the rating of the National Assembly has fallen too low. People don't trust the National Assembly. We need to make sure that we show that we are mentally healthy people, we do not use drugs, and we are morally standing in this room. We are making this proposal for Members of the National Assembly to submit to such a text once a year, and we propose that it be adopted. I express my personal will that if it is not accepted, I will personally do so and will show what my result is, and I will call on everyone else to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u290	- What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u291	Thank you, Madam President. I'll take the floor for a line. The colleague is from the Patriotic Front. I have shared this opinion and opinion of the Temporary Legal Commission. You know that in order to fulfil an obligation, particularly concerning the forced removal of biological material by a person, by a citizen, this is done in a special order, under a special procedure and by special authorities. I do not see how much further the debate in the National Assembly needs to be reduced, and the authority itself. I think we've actually reached the bottom, hit the bottom with this proposal. It does not in any way soar, it gives no better commitment to call it, to the National Assembly, in respect of all our constituents, who have individually and individually voted for both the list and for the respective MP. Here the question is not whether who, when and how will take tests. Walking along this logic, it must also be good for us at the entrance of the National Assembly to place a Dreger and anyone who passes through there to do their sample. Colleagues, please don't let us get to these extremes so low on the highest authority in a parliamentary republic, as is the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u292	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u293	Madam President, honourable Members! I understand the noble motives of colleague Veselinov and all other colleagues. Of course, he is free, and each of us is free to undergo such a study of narcotics, prohibited substances and all such substances. In the present case, however, I, as an associate professor of chemistry, can say that if it wants to be comprehensive, it should also offer today a list of substances, how to take this biological liquid, biological sample, methods of storing the samples until analysed, how to analyse it, in order to have the results.. Therefore, things are more complicated than a noble opinion. I support the Commission's opinion. I said that because I happened to attend this meeting without being a Commissioner, and I think she made the right decision. I repeat: I understand the motives of colleagues, in a sense I understand them, but I do not justify them. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u294	Third line? I won't. You have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u295	However, as a specialist, you know that this is not as complicated as procedure and implementation. That's for you. To our colleagues on the left, it is a fact in politics and the left policy not only in Bulgaria, but also in Europe, in the United States, it is everywhere to go towards recognition of softer and harder drugs. And your position is understandable. [[Laughter at GERB.]] However, the runners of Poison Ivy once again show that they are not ready to produce biological material. Well you are chosen here to give your life for Bulgaria, and you are afraid to give yourself biological material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u296	Any other speeches? He has the word Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u297	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, on the subject that has just been discussed, I do not think that the speech of our colleague has contributed to the rating, the authority of the National Assembly to drop extremely low. I think it contributes to the presence of people who are under drug addiction. Mr. Velikov, I think that when a proposal can be improved, you could also contribute to this improvement and not just understand it and approve it. I think it is our duty to find, to perfect a solution so that it can be implemented. There's a way to apply it, there's a way to take this sample. I think this should be a moral obligation for everyone to give such a sample. So much for that. Your right to vote as you wish. I want to make an add-on in al. 1 of the old art. 130. Taking from last year's example, an extremely ugly and compromising example of the National Assembly, I propose in this regard and in relation to the desire to safeguard the health and life of all of us in the National Assembly to add a text to the first sentence of para. 1 which reads: "The National Representative shall be obliged to attend the meeting of the National Assembly and of the committees in which he is elected and to add a second sentence: "The President shall not be entitled to import into the building of the National Assembly cold or firearm, explosive or poisonous substances. This may sound funny to you, but there was a case like this. The cargoes from the Ataka can support this. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u298	- What's the line? To speak, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u299	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will personally support this proposal, we have not discussed it in a group, with the following motives. When you drive a car, there are certain requirements for not using alcohol because you are endangering the lives of others and your own life. What about people who write laws and can cause potentially much more serious damage to Bulgaria than a person who drives a car? And I remember, I would like to remind my colleagues from GERB, I remember at least twice, honourable colleagues from GERB, current Prime Minister Boyko Borisov rightly, in my opinion, in certain debates to say that a drug test is needed for the people who participated in them. I've heard it a few times from him, and I think he had reason. When one of these tests is done once a year, it's not a circus. If someone would propose every week, every month, of course, is unfounded, but this is about once a year. And as for my colleague Veliv for the finer treatment of the way this is happening, of course, it should be done in a way that shows whether a person can perform his duties as a lawmaker, or whether he is dependent on substances that make him unfit to write the laws of Bulgaria. This is a key issue. I don't think it would lower the National Assembly. On the contrary, he needs it. And right now, we can make this decision. Tomorrow, in another situation, someone from GERB will come out again, including Prime Minister Borisov and say that there is a need for this, but now that there is a specific vote and a specific opportunity for you not to support it. If that's the way it is, it's not fair. That is, if you today, colleagues from GERB, to you I address as the largest parliamentary group, do not support this text, tomorrow you have no right in the debates to demand it and to say: "Why is it not there? He's not here because it was suggested and was eventually not supported. Therefore, especially when it is done once a year, as is the mandatory profile review that people do once a year, I think it is appropriate to accept it and support it, all the more so that for many professions there are requirements if you want to perform them a psychotest and other tests. So this proposal I think is appropriate and that it can be supported and can be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u300	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u301	Mr. Veselinov, Mr. Dimitrov, I also very much like the proposal and I will support it if you explain to me what will happen when the test turns out to be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u302	And how we raise Parliament's authority. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u303	Thank you, Madam President. I liked my colleague's motivation, too. I'll even expand it. I propose that any Member of the Parliament who has reasonable doubts about himself or any Member of the parliamentary group concerned should support this proposal. However, I would be very interested in how the President of the National Assembly, perhaps through the use of force by the Quaestors, will force the MPs to go and give the appropriate sample. Please, fellow Members, once again, let us not call on the National Assembly to this extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u304	Third line, come in. Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what will be the consequences? Information to the citizens, awareness of our constituents. Who among us would give up people knowing more about us? This is our strength, dear Members of the House! The more people know about us, the better for us, because we are the best chosen ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u306	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u307	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Glauchev, you refreshed my memory with your line and I remember you calling for the same control as colleague Krasimir Velchev. And you were very persuasive. You were so convincing that now, with all your self-awareness, I will support this proposal with full conviction as to how right it is to be realised. Listen to me, it's enough for me to get the result of this test, if it's positive, to make it public. That's enough for me. That is, if it turns out that there are MPs who are addicted to drugs, it is sufficient that this information becomes public. Look at the trend of frequent elections. If people nevertheless decide to elect him back in Parliament, it is their right. But if they decide not to vote for such people, which I think is the likely development, the success of this measure will be very fundamental and very positive. So I call on all of you if we think that such a measure is necessary, or to vote for it now, or tomorrow, when we think we are witnessing such cases, just to be silent because it is not fair. It is not fair in some debates to use this measure, and when there is a specific vote, not to stand behind it. And I, Madam President, propose an editing of the end of the text which Mr. Angelov has proposed and his colleagues, namely to make public the names of the MPs who refused to pass such a test. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u308	Mr. Dimitrov, in the commission's proposed editorial for art. 132...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u309	It's about Mr. Angelov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u310	The creation of a new para. 5 with this addition.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u311	That's right, with this addition.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u312	It will be fourth, since the text does not have par. 5. Your turn will come, Mr. Veliv. The written Members of the National Assembly are now announced in the order of their stated wish to speak. Mr. Belemezov, after him Mr. Chukolov, Dr. Raynov, Mr. Lutvi Mestan and Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u313	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u314	You were mentioned by name?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u316	Okay, if you say so.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u317	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm going to tell Mr. Dimitrov that I would even expand the subject, because for three years I've been saying that he should have a psych test. [[Applause from PF]] And if you go to one of these tests, it's not bad at all, it's even necessary to go to a psych test on the same principle every year. Or if you decide, at least when entering parliament, to know in advance, and voters to know who is mentally normal, sustainable and so on. You can't ask for a driver for a psycho test, you drive a car, and here you're involved in the management of the state! I think it's perfectly normal to have a psych test. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u318	Mr. Belemezov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u319	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, since under art. 130 there are two proposals tabled, I will rather allow myself to comment on what we have done, in a very tight, short order, the proposal under art. 130, para. 4 which reads: The National Representative may announce on his website information about the schedule of meetings with voters, his speeches, statements, proposals and opinions on bills, as well as the names of the collaborators, telephone and e-mail address. Honourable Members, the proposal that we have allowed ourselves to bring and put to your attention is rather inspired by all the people who are in our electoral areas to seek maximum transparency in relation to our personal, extraparliamentary initiatives, in relation to our commitment to meet them in a regular manner. I believe that there is nothing unnatural and nothing provocative about announcing such information on the website of the National Assembly. Since there is no explicit text in the Rules in force so far indicating that the people's representative is obliged to maintain a personal page, I would suggest, if you permit, Madam President, restructuring the text with one supplement, as in art. 130, para. 4 we can add: The National Representative, who has a personal page on the National Assembly's website, is obliged to announce information about the schedule of his meetings with voters................................................................................. The proposal aims to work with greater transparency and each of our constituents in real time to know the programme of our meetings in the country, respectively to have the possibility of better access to us, questioning and proposing solutions that we should put to the attention of the National Assembly. I believe that our proposal is in the spirit of more transparency, more dialogue with our constituents and, again, I say, it is in no way provocative of the rules in force so far. I expect you to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u320	Mr. Belemezov, just one clarification. Under art. 146, para. 4 in respect of which the subparagraph is also yours, made in due time, proposal under art. 130, para. 4 in the report it is recorded that it will be reflected, its systematic place is in art. 146, para. 3's further back in the report. We're not there yet. So then I'll allow those votes that you want to change the wording. Right now, al. 4 is outside the scope of the commented art. 132, because the report specifically states... [[Reply from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov away from the microphones.]] Article 130 by importer, i.e. by the current Rules of Procedure. This text has an al. 4. You have made a proposal under this paragraph. However, the Commission says that all these proposals, which concern ethical rules and norms, with a new Section II, have been drawn slightly further back and we will come to them when discussing the content of art. 146, para. 3. So then I'll take your statement into account. A line to that statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u321	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I just want to say that no one has the right to do a forced examination of biological material, much less the results of the study carried out without the desire of the individual.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u322	Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u323	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a line from colleague Bellemezov. Colleague, it is strange that only now you cared about transparency yesterday, today and in the Temporary Commission I did not remain with this feeling. Secondly, such an obligation for every MP I consider inappropriate, at least because in the National Assembly's website all this is described for each MP. Log in, get acquainted, this practice has been introduced in the previous National Assembly, and now there are: the bills that the national representative has introduced, the opinions on them, statements. There are murals of the National Assembly. I consider it absolutely unnecessary and unacceptable to oblige the people's representative in this way to maintain the website, and its content is defined, framed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u324	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Belemezov? You won't use it. To speak, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u325	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We at Ataka are firm that the people's representative does not have absolutely no dependencies. Things have gotten a little mixed up here, and our Rules also concern the Election Code. You remember 2011-2012. If I am not mistaken when discussing the Election Code, I will be sure of that. We have proposed that every candidate for a Member of the National Assembly declare clearly whether he is a member of secret societies, because this is an addiction, whether he is a homosexual, because once again this can be used and used depending on the Member of the National Assembly, by somehow racketeering him, holding him and making him dependent. You rejected it, you didn't accept it. The colleague from the Patriotic Front is Angelov, Julian Angelov. Don't confuse him with Veselinov. You must know the MPs! We absolutely agree with him, but we will support this proposal. Our editorial proposal from "Attack" is four times a year to have such a drug test. So, from a common culture, what we know is that this is the case around the world, companies, organizations that check their employees do it every four months. That's our proposal for four months.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u326	Where do we cover it?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u327	In their proposal, if you can vote on four. Once to vote on theirs, once ours every four months. It must also be clear here that the authority of an institution is suffering when its representatives are dependent. I'll remind you of the mayor of Toronto. Do you remember his performances? There were videos like this on the Internet. It is widely discussed how simply the institution of the mayor in Canada has been erotic because of such behavior. If we see things here in Bulgaria, you know, there are politicians who say one thing in the morning, at lunch, another, a sharp change of opinion, of moods. The President of the Republic of Bulgaria.............................. those mistakes he makes:.........................................................................! He says it was a happy lifestyle. How many other mistakes he makes. Well, of course, this raises doubts about any dependencies, so our proposal is also one that corresponds to the proposals that GERB have seen to make. I remember at the end of the last parliament Mr. Glauchev, I think it was here you put in a box that said "Dreger." It was about someone from BSP, I think it was. [[Radio.]] Let's do what we do here... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I'm serious. We run the country. For the management of a car you have to take such a test, what remains for the management of the state?! Let's do here, when a Prime Minister comes, ministers when they come here, at the entrance of the hall or the Quaestor, may give him 20 leva a bribe, but he is the person to make such a test that he enters this room to make everything clear. Of course! As far as the gun's concerned. When people stand around the National Assembly protesting, brought in, threatening how they will pull out the throat and do everything possible to endanger the life, the health of a Member of the National Assembly naturally, that every person has the right to defend himself when the weapon is issued in the proper manner. By the way, that's where the tests are being run. Of course, it is necessary to protect a Member of the National Assembly. When he's a man, he brings a gun and leaves it to the guards before he gets into the Assembly. And when he's not a man, he'll come with a diaper. And now there are people out there chanting: "Boyko poodle found it, name it Valerie!" ♪ Well, they'll come with a diaper, I don't expect male behavior from you! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u328	Procedure, before that, however, the lines. I won't. Procedure in Mrs. Atanasova's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u329	Madam President, thank you. Honourable Members, we are currently discussing the section on ethical rules of the Members of the National Assembly. In a moment, there will be a discussion of the disciplinary texts. I appeal to you: let us not have to bring them into force as soon as we accept them! [[Heckling]] I think it is appropriate, at least in plenary, for each one of us to behave with dignity and be careful with the vocabulary he allows himself to use. [[Relations and calls from the hall.]] Because I hear calls, I have not commented on the words of one or another Member of the National Assembly. My call is for everyone. And to you, Madam President, to keep an eye on the order in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'll take into account my procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Kasabov, however, had requested a reply to Mr. Chukolov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u331	We've seen enough and listened to demagogy! There's no more demagogy than this! Fine, Mr. Chukolov, but when this is accepted, do not shine you from your group! Because a drug test means mostly a normality test, a adequacy test, a normal psychic reaction test. And here were words about how much this National Assembly could fall.! I ask you: how did the National Assembly fall a long time ago, so you cut up all of Bulgaria when your leader threw meatballs at Mr. Chukolov, the stewardesses in Luffthanza and threatened the lives of the passengers on the plane? [[(Strong noise, lines and calls ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u332	Mr. Kasabov, we're talking about suggestions for text.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u333	I'm asking: is that normal? [[Lowered noise, lines and calls.]] I also ask: Is it normal when in Brussels you were throwing corks at waitresses and waitresses serving staff and stuff?...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u334	Please don't go back! Don't force me to take your word for it. [[Strong noise in the hall, MPs from Ataka are becoming straight.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u335	Don't lie! Liar!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u336	Is that proper behavior? How did normal voters feel? I'm asking if it's normal...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u337	Don't lie! Liar! You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u338	Please, let the MPs calm down! Mr. Kasabov! [[Lowered noise, lines and calls.]] Mr. Kasabov, a reply regarding the Rules and texts contained therein. We want to develop such legal norms from now on so that events don't happen the way they used to. I think it's not good for the debate to sharpen the atmosphere in plenary. After all, we voted to finish our work today. Finish your line Mr. Kasabov asked for the word for a line, taking into account the notes I made you!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u339	Madam President, at the moment I am merely recalling part of the shameful history of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u340	You're lying! Liar, liar!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u341	This shameful story may be due to...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u342	Such a thing can happen through the media, not in the National Assembly. Right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u343	It may be due to the white wind breathing in the toilets of the National Assembly! And from time to time, some people come out with powdery noses! [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u344	Thank you. Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u345	I'm asking: are these normalities? It's good to undergo these tests!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u346	Time's up! Thank you. [[People's Representative Valentin Kasabov continues to speak on off microphones.]] Please, the Members of the National Assembly for more peace and quiet! There's no second line. Mr. Chukolov, you have the right to the back. I warn you in advance not to electrify the voltage in the room. I expect proper behavior from you!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u347	You should have demanded such proper behavior from the one who took the liberty of making a line for me! Mr. Kasabov, you are not on TV where you can lie and make up the shit that pleases you. You're not there! With lies and insinuations, with spitting of Ataka, your only true cause, you have reached this National Assembly. Yes, you have reached this National Assembly with your anti-GERB speaking. Now we just see what wonderful service staff you are of GERB. Enjoy! Congratulations, as they say! With your lies, engage your viewers in TV. It's on them, and it's on yours. It's on your conscience, too. [[Noise and lines.]] Those yellow shits you're talking about must seem like you're doing something great right now, don't you?! Something great! And just one day, if you will, you will answer to God's judgment! [[(Noise, lines, shouts: (E-e-e-e!)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u348	We're moving on to the next one who made a statement. Dr. Raynov. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, there are written before you the following MPs: Dr. Raynov, Mr. Mestan, Mr. Velikov, Mrs. Manolova, and then I will record you. [[Heckling]] There's no personal explanation for a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u349	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I'm here before you to say a few words as a doctor. Personally, I'm ashamed, I'm worried about this debate, the banning of the debate in this Parliament. This is where the subject of addiction began. For those who do not know, without questioning your competence of each of you, psychology has a whole chapter on Dependencies. Dependencies become psychotropic substances, become sexual addictions. [[Elevator bell dings]] , which are financial dependencies, they are other dependencies....... whether by consequence, whether by unsolved cases and so on and so forth............................... Colleagues, this is a very long topic. Prof. Veliv hinted that behind these words are many things that you do not assimilate them: the topic of the species material that wants to get genetic, but starting from biological, genetic, perhaps someone will be tempted to subsequently talk about the purity of the race, about DNA and so on. Dear colleagues, a little more serious! Each and every one of us entering this Parliament has signed under the affidavit. This is quite enough for his conscious responsibility. That's in Parliament. Otherwise, when parties, when coalitions are casting for MPs, they are entitled to demand whatever they want, bet them and control their affairs. Let's stop this circus. Believe me, the cameras and the public are watching if you think that this is how we raise the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament, you are bitterly mistaken. Finally, I propose an end to the debate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u350	- What's the line? First line.... I have announced before your procedural proposal, the MPs who wish to make a statement, so we will not take this opportunity away from them, Dr. Raynov. [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Then it will be done in a proper manner and order.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u351	Mrs. Chairman, Dr. Raynov, honourable Members! I am going out for Dr. Raynov's reply only to remind the people's representative Asen Agov two mandates ago, who said from this tribune the following: "If we all go out in front of the National Assembly, get naked, throw a sack over our head and beat ourselves up, a big crowd will gather and applaud us, will welcome us, but we will never get us involved. My word, Dr. Raynov, about these addictions is that self-destruction leads to nothing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u352	Second line? A hole, Dr. Raynov? No. Mr. Mestan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u353	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we had considerations against the proposed text, which, however, is of a nature which cannot come into line with the style of the debates that we have seen in the last half hour. I will therefore spare you the considerations on the substance of how such a debate eroticizes the authority of the National Assembly, how such a proposal would also eroticise the trust and authority of the National Assembly. I will not go into an even deeper analysis of the difference between electoral positions and other statuses, because we are all going through the strong assessment, the court of voters, and I think that he is the sovereign, should be the leader to decide who deserves to represent him and who does not. In the course of the discussion, I heard from colleagues who are present in the Chamber, a very interesting consideration. They said: Mr. Mestan, remember the maxim that comes from somewhere in the East: you are asking how much you want one thing, because it can really happen! If it really does happen, including with the support of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, bear in mind that last time we would be worried by such a provision in the Rules of Procedure, because we have to admit, Madam President, that the proposal on the Patriotic Front is in total harmony with the religious canon. All religions deny addictions, deny the use of tranquilizers. The Islamic canon is particularly strict, which is shared by the majority of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and my colleagues, because of the total compliance of this proposal with the Islamic canon, tend to support it. But before we proceed to a specific vote and before the debate is stopped, Madam President, I am making a very serious proposal. Let's hear, in addition to Dr. Raynov and the rapporteur and the Minister of Health, my proposal is really serious......................................................................... Please, test it, because the emotion of the Chamber is not the best advisor for making the right decision. If you do not do so, the parliamentary group will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u354	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u355	I understand, Mr. Mestan, your attempts to insert a religious substance into the entire mess that you've been creating for 25 years, only in the Qur'an, your prophet Muhammad has said that it forbids you-nos. Isn't that right? When we offer drugs, we don't mean wine, brandy, vodka, whiskey. [[Laughter and raging]] which you, by observing the canon, do not use. We offer very specific drugs that lead to permanent change of consciousness and degradation of consciousness. Here it is very inappropriate to intervene the Qur'an because, if we should quote the Qur'an, Sura 42 says: The woman stands below the man. And another Sura says, "If you see the unbelievers, and these are Christians and Jews: beat them, beat them, kill them, for Allah will reward you above." So very carefully with religion! Very carefully, Mr. Mestan, with religion! It would be nice to support this proposal of ours, but do not mix demagogical religion with something quite specific for common sense and that the authority of this Parliament should be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u356	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Second line? A hole, Mr. Mestan? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Sorry, I didn't see that. Mr. Bayraktarov, second line. It's in my quest with Mr. Mestan's backdrop to close the subject of religions, but apparently it won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u357	Madam President, after my colleague Kasabov, it is unthinkable for me to talk about religions. Mr. Mestan, after your high intellectual enlightenment, we should ask the question: are, when the authorities of the Ministry of Interior perform field drug tests on the drivers of motor vehicles on the roads, in accordance with European norms? Because what you're saying is, to say the least, untenable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u358	Is there a third line? I can't see. Now you have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u359	I'm taking advantage of my right to a replica to renew the responsible proposal. I will not comment on the statements I have provoked. Madam President, it is good to hear the Minister of Health will we be in agreement with international treaties with which Bulgaria has committed itself? If there is such a risk, now is the time to prevent it. I said, otherwise we'll support the proposal. As for what was the expression "degraded political consciousness" or "degraded consciousness," there is no brighter manifestation of the degraded consciousness, of the defects of thinking than xenophobia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u360	To speak, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u361	Thank you, Madam President. I must thank Mr. Mestan because he stressed and calmed the atmosphere a bit. You need to talk more business, without very strong words. Perhaps the proposal of colleagues Mitev and others was also related to the lack of a good parliamentary tone, a parliamentary culture of communication in the Chamber. In this way, their proposal may be more appropriate to the standards of good parliamentary communication and to the dispute in the name of clarification of truths. However, to be more cooperative, not necessarily to have outbursts of great spiritual energy, not always related to the nature of our work. As a chemist, I will tell you that the proposal so made is unfortunately not good, colleagues. It is not good, because once a year, a drug study will have a very low information value, except perhaps some value for people. Otherwise, if someone, whether in this room, does not believe that in this room, or outside the hall, he decides to use such substances, which are forbidden on the doping line, and knows that it will be controlled after some time, he will select such substances, which have low pre-life, that is, with low body life, metabolites and transformation substances, which relatively quickly cease their existence and are converted into other harmless substances. So if we want to have real control, even though I don't think it's necessary, we should undergo this kind of research on a daily basis. But isn't this too much for MPs elected by the people and people with a high sense of duty to the motherland?! This seems really too, really unnecessary for the moment. If it is accepted, here was thrown to my mercy, I am ready to coordinate a group together with colleagues from the Chemistry Faculty and from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and to create a method for rapid diagnosis... [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]] Yes, there are methods. They're right. They're the people who say they are. There are methods. They usually rest on chromatographic principles, with mass spectrometers if necessary. This can be done technically, but everything is not technique, colleagues. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] In this sense, I would suggest, when it is judged by the Presidency or when there is a procedural proposal for termination, that we put an end to these debates. They're really a little beneath us. But if it is accepted, I personally express my willingness to undergo research on any substances that may be contained in me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u362	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u363	Thank you, Madam President. What affected Assoc. Velikov, we were somewhat commenting on it in the committee. There I made an offer to consider purely technologically, because it would be very good if this check was not once a year, but at more frequent intervals, could it not be done with the devices with which we vote every day, purely technologically?! But obviously, there's no way we can come up with that now and do it. The issue is in the public effect of the will and the desire of the MPs to really show that they do not feel above the law and that as every Bulgarian citizen can and is subject to such checks, so are we. I think that this proposal in perspective could be reasoned. Again, colleagues, the public effect is important, the will and desire of the people's representative to show that he feels nothing more than the ordinary Bulgarian citizen. I conclude with this in order not to waste parliamentary time the proposal, which my colleague Dimitrov previously made, we could refine it with an addition relating to colleagues who have not submitted to such a test or study to state the reasons for this. Because fellow doctors have indicated that within a certain treatment, the substances that are used may provide a similar indication in the study. So if the relevant medical document is presented, I think it would not be a problem for a colleague to refuse to submit the document itself. Then there won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u364	I will put to the vote any proposal that comes to me in writing. It's a hole. Mr. Veliv won't use the back. Procedure Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u365	Madam President, you've devoted yourself long enough to this important subject. I agree that if the issue of dependences that affect political activity and governance were discussed, the discussion would be really serious and responsible because my colleagues had the opportunity to say that these dependencies mainly develop in 3-4 different directions. But since the discussion did not come to this real question, it focuses on a small element that brings more spicy than content, I renew the proposal to vote for termination. Because if this discussion continues, I will call on our parliamentary group to suspend its participation in the further vote on the Rules of Procedure, because we cannot subject ourselves to the humiliation that many people are offering us today in this sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u366	Come in, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u367	We do not agree to end the debates, even more to be reduced to some humiliation, because from now on we are only talking about raising the authority of Parliament, about mental health for each of us, about being not dependent and being fully adequate. And the fact that you do not agree is understandable, given that one of the groups in the last parliament has obviously used part of their dependence.. served you entirely while you were managing and doing a lot of shit, so you reduced the place of Parliament and the Republic of Bulgaria to the level of swamp. So we understand your pushes, kicks and jumps. But the debate is extremely important. If you have any concerns, do not say them so aloud from now on, because the concerns go into clear doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u368	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. There has been a proposal to put an end to the debate on this text. Mr. Kasabov expressed his view back on the matter. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debates under art. 130 by importer. They voted 115 MPs: 95, against 20, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which the Commission does not support. [[Heckling]] Its systematic place is in art. 146, para. 3, where he can do it in a timely manner. We've made it clear with him, but I can't go on the report any further since we don't have a vote on this point. We vote. They voted 112 MPs: for 7, against 76, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov for the creation of a new para. 5 with the content that was the subject of our discussion in the last hour. The Commission does not support this proposal. 110 MPs voted: 30, 27, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal to supplement the text of para. 1 in art. 132, where he proposes after the content the People's Representative is obliged to attend the meetings of the National Assembly and the committees in which he is elected. The same has no right to import weapons, ammunition and narcotics into the National Assembly building, explosive and poisonous substances, as you have said, is recorded in the stenogram. We vote on Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal. Vote 108 MPs: 81 against 13, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u369	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I call on you to take this vote seriously. Right now we're voting on something that I can't understand. Are we trying to prove to people that we don't deserve our place here, or are they right? Understand, we are currently voting on something that, of course, does not happen for a normal person who comes to work. I ask a second question: how many MPs come in here with security guards carrying guns? So please, let's introduce some normality, let's take it and do our job. Let's stop voting things that have nothing to do with our work and move on in the sense of what will help us to work, not what convinces the Bulgarian society that we are a group of people, and I don't want to insult anyone, and I include myself in this group of jerks who don't know what they're doing. [[Shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u370	I'm putting the appendix in para. 1 of art. 132. They voted 108 MPs: 50, against 15, abstention 38. The proposal is not accepted as the quorum is from 71 MPs. Mr. Martin Dimitrov proposed a new sentence in the new para. 5 which should be para. 4. Since his proposal is subject to the proposal of MPs Mitev, Vesselinov, Angelov, Kasabov and Ivanov, and since this proposal was rejected, there is no way I can put to the vote a new sentence in a paragraph that does not exist. I shall put the full version of Article to the vote. 132 on the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I think after this debate, we've earned a 15-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u371	Mrs. Atanasova, report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u372	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 131, which becomes Art. 133: Art. 133. The Code of Labour and the Code of Social Security shall apply to outstanding issues in these Rules, unless it is contrary to or incompatible with the situation of Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u373	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 133. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u374	Under art. 132 there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov in art. 132 paragraph (1) shall be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Iskren Veselinov, Julian Angelov, Valentinov Kasabov and Valentin Ivanov: The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 132, which becomes Art. 134: Art. 134. (1) Members of the National Assembly may not be detained and no criminal prosecution may be brought against them except for a criminal offence of a general nature, with the permission of the National Assembly and when it does not meet (Art. 43, para. 2) with the permission of its President. (2) Permission for detention shall not be sought in the case of a serious offence found, in which case the National Assembly shall be notified without delay, and where it does not meet (Art. 43, para. 2) the President of the European Union. (3) Where there is sufficient evidence that a Member of the National Assembly has committed a common offence, the Prosecutor-General shall make a reasoned request to the National Assembly and, where it does not meet the President, requesting permission to engage in prosecution. The request shall be accompanied by sufficient data. (4) Permission to arouse prosecution shall not be required upon written consent of the Member of the National Assembly. The Members of the National Assembly shall submit their written consent to the President of the National Assembly, who shall immediately inform the Prosecutor General and inform the National Assembly at the first plenary session after the consent has been made. The written consent may not be withdrawn by the Member of the National Assembly. (5) Outside the cases under para. 4, the request of the Prosecutor General and the data attached to him shall be dealt with by the National Assembly, which shall be delivered by a decision not earlier than 14 days after the receipt of the request. Upon request and appearance, the national representative shall be heard by the National Assembly. (6) When the National Assembly does not meet (Art. 43, para. 2) an authorisation to provoke prosecution against a Member of the National Assembly shall be granted by the President of the National Assembly. The authorisation granted by the President of the National Assembly shall be submitted for approval by the Members of the National Assembly at the first meeting of the National Assembly. (7) When the prosecution ends with a sentence imposing a sentence of imprisonment for a deliberate crime, or where the execution of the sentence is not postponed, the National Assembly shall decide on the early termination of the authority of the Member of the National Assembly. (8) In cases where the Prosecutor General has made a request for detention of the Member of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall rule by a separate decision taken pursuant to para. 1-7. It may revoke an authorisation granted by it. (9) The provision of art. 70 of the Constitution shall also apply in cases where prosecution against a Member of the National Assembly is aroused prior to its election.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u375	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which the committee does not support. Vote 81 MPs: 5 against 43 abstentions 33. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote art. 134 in the commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u376	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 133, which becomes Art. 135. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 134, which becomes art. 136. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 135, which becomes art. 137: Art. 137. The State and local authorities and their administrations shall cooperate with the National Representative and provide him, upon request, with information and documents relating to the performance of his or her powers. The Member of the National Assembly shall have the right of access to state and local authorities and organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u377	Statements? I won't. [[Reply from MP Desislav Chukolov.]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u378	Madam President, we are voting on texts that should have all the MPs here in this House, because it concerns all of us. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack, I would like a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u379	Here we go. Aidoan Mutalib Ali-here. Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Boyka Grozeva Marinska- here Boris Borisov Stanimirov- absent Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- here Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev-here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Those who have arrived here, front to record you, because this is how we will confuse the list from place. Gemma Grozdanova here to be recorded. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula- absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Zdravko Dimitrov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov- absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov- absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov- absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Cyril Andonov Kotev- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan-here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- here Mariana Georgieva Todorova- missing Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- absent Mehmet Umer Ataman is absent. Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin here Mihail Raykov Mikov- here Miho Dimitrov Mihov- absent Musa Cemal Palev- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Mustafa Fahri Ahmed is absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Nevin Halil Hassan- absent. Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov- absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolai Nankov Nankov- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pencho Stoyanov Penchev- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Petar Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- absent Radan Milenov Kanev- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rositsa Yordanova Yanakieva-Costadinova- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev here Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza-here. Saliha Hakif Emin is missing Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavcho Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev- absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- here Philip Stefanov Popov here Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Georgiev Todorov- absent Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- missing Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush is absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- here Ianko Alexandrov Iankov- absent There is a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. [[Applause.]] One hundred and twenty-four, except for the last page. I put to the vote Articles 135, 136 and 137 on the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u380	A proposal by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs for the creation of Chapter 12a. "Chapters 12 and The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 4 t. 2 of the CPNS: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the project in principle and proposes in Chapter 12a to create "Section II "Ethical norms of conduct with art. 138.. 148: Section II - Ethical norms of conduct Art. 138. The Members of the National Assembly shall exercise their powers in respect of the rule of law and the protection of public interest, guided by the principles of non-binding with private interests, openness, accountability and transparency. Art. 139. The Member of the National Assembly shall respect the citizens, regardless of their political bias, their position of office and opinion expressed by them. Art. 140. (1) The Members of the National Assembly may not consent to the exercise of their powers in the interest of natural or legal persons. (2) The Members of the National Assembly may not consent or use their position of office for advertising. Art. 141. (1) The Members of the National Assembly shall not be put into financial dependence or any other relationship with natural or legal persons which may influence the exercise of their powers. (2) The Members of the National Assembly shall exercise their powers without seeking or receiving any material or other benefit for themselves or for persons associated with it within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. (3) The Members of the National Assembly shall not take any action which prejudices the principle of separation of authorities and the independence of the public authorities. (4) The Members of the National Assembly shall justify their actions taken in the exercise of their powers. Art. 142. The National Representative shall declare property, income and expenses in the country and abroad under the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions. Art. 143. When submitting draft laws, statements or votes in plenary or in a committee, a Member of the National Assembly of private interest shall declare it in accordance with the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. Art. 144. The Members of the National Assembly shall be obliged to protect the confidentiality of the information obtained in the exercise of their powers and of the information concerning the personal life of the Members of the National Assembly. Art. 145. (1) The Members of the National Assembly may not use their positions of office to obtain special privileges or benefits. (2) The Members of the National Assembly may not accept gifts in this capacity unless they are minutes and worth up to one tenth of its basic monthly remuneration for the month concerned. Gifts over this value are handed over to the National Assembly and are announced in a public register of the National Assembly. Art. 146. (1) The Members of the National Assembly may announce an address and e-mail address for contacts. (2) The Members of the National Assembly shall hold meetings with voters, including in the electoral regions, outside the days referred to in art. 45, para. 1 and 3. (3) The Members of the National Assembly may announce on their website information on the schedule of their meetings with voters, their speeches, proposals and opinions on bills, as well as the names of the assistants, telephone and e-mail address. Art. 147. The National Representative shall be entitled to no more than three material collaborators. The National Assembly shall establish and keep a register of things collaborators. The register shall also include persons participating in the preparation, discussion and adoption of acts or documents in the National Assembly under a civil contract. Art. 148. (1) The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission shall establish the infringement under this Section and shall rule by a decision published in a public register of the National Assembly. The Members of the National Assembly shall have the right to comment on the decision to be published in the Register. (2) The Commission under para. 1 shall adopt rules on the application of this Section.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u381	Statements? Mr. Belemezov, after him, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u382	Thank you, Madam President. As importers of part of the text referred to in art. 146, para. 3: The National Representative may announce on his website information about the schedule of meetings with voters, his speeches, proposals and opinions on bills, as well as the names of the collaborators, telephone and e-mail address. I propose an editorial correction, with the following text: The National Representative announces information on his website in the National Assembly about the schedule of meetings with voters, his speeches, statements, proposals and opinions on bills, as well as the names of the collaborators, telephone and e-mail address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u383	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Popov wants the floor to be spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u384	Thank you, Madam President. I and the Commission, and here I express my basic agreement with the support of the entire Section II "Ethical Codes of Conduct " although, for the most part, the Members of the National Assembly are obliged to carry out these actions arising from other laws. I set an example with the proposal in art. 142 that the people's representative declares property, income and expenses in the country and abroad under the Law on Public Property of the persons holding senior state posts. I think this is an absolutely unnecessary burden on the Rules and on the text. But here I have a procedural proposal in art. Paragraph 146. 2 drop out, namely: The National Representative shall hold meetings with voters, including in the electoral regions outside the days referred to in art. 45, para. One and three. This means that if a representative of the people held meetings in these days, it would somehow not be ethical. I don't understand this thing! Indeed, the committee which is set up in art. 148 what will he be watching? He will see if the people's representative conducts meetings with voters these days and eventually if he catches him having an unethical meeting with voters these days, what would he impose on him for violating ethical norms? It really should be dropped in my opinion. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u385	Which text?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u386	Art. 146, para. 2 In the proposal for Section II, Ethical Codes of Conduct. I think it's really right for her to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u387	The only point is for the MPs to be here in plenary days, because apparently those who are currently absent hold meetings with voters in the districts.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u388	But the plenary day ends at 2:00 p.m., and here it is recorded beyond the days of art. 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u389	There are duties in the committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u390	If this article remains, time shall be fixed. If the people's representative held a meeting at 15.00, what wouldn't be ethical?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u391	Yes, until the vote is cast.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u392	It wouldn't be ethical to have a meeting. What if we invite the people's representative here?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u393	Are we going to measure which interest is greater to pursue or hold meetings? If you'd like to make a suggestion, I'd like to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u394	I'm making an offer. 2 to be dropped under art. 146.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u395	And your previous offer was?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u396	It's the only one. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u397	Under art. 142 you had a proposal for some clumsy text. Do you offer editing?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u398	No, no. I didn't offer anything there, I just said that I think that this is unnecessary, given that these obligations are governed by other laws, it makes no sense. But let him vote, I don't mind. But really for art. Paragraph 146. 2 I suggest you drop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u399	I get it. - What's the line? Mr. Lazarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u400	Madam President! Dear Mr. Popov, obviously the will in the second paragraph of art. 146 is not to hold meetings of any nature during the meetings of the National Assembly. If that's how we literally interpret what's written down, it's more than obvious. However, if it bothers you or disturbs you, we should correct the text: The National Representative shall hold meetings with its voters, except during the time for plenary meetings and committee meetings. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u401	Second line? A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u402	In the back, I declare that if there is such an editorial proposal as you suggested, I withdraw mine. It's more reticent, even though the question arises, if someone meets, what will happen, what is the penalty? But in this proposal, I withdraw mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u403	Any other MPs? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u404	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think it is good to include this section in the Rules, although when these ethical norms are included in the Rules, they become legal rules, not moral and optional, but I do not propose that we correct the title. I pay attention to certain surpluses in this text so that we do not say in positive and negative form the same things. This is the first paragraph of Article 1. 140. Note, Art. 138 correctly requires the national representative to exercise his or her powers in accordance with the public interest and so on. The first paragraph referred to in Article 2. 140 says: "The National Representative cannot consent to exercising his or her powers in the interests of natural or legal persons. " This text has to be dropped because it is said in the first text that I quoted you that it should not act in the private interest and that there should be a singleness with private interests. That's what it says. This does not mean that the national representative cannot declare himself in defence of certain citizens or support legal persons in their requests. The idea is not to do it in its own interest and only in the service of certain natural or legal persons. Usually, the people's representative will not actually declare: I work in the interests of Hicks, Igrek or Zet or several organizations. The problem is the text of art. 138, which is quite enough for me. Otherwise, there is ambiguity that if a Member of the National Assembly advocates the rights of certain citizens or requests of certain legal entities, it automatically conflicts with its functions. The same is the case with art. 141, para. 4. Notice: The National Representative shall justify his actions undertaken in the exercise of his or her powers. Can anyone explain why this nonsense here is given as a text? My last recommendation is to art. 143. It changes to some extent the actions of the MPs in conflict of interest. The current text wanted when submitting a bill or making a statement correctly here is added to the vote, the public representative with a private interest in the issue discussed within the meaning of the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest to declare it. This meant that he should make such a statement in the course of the discussion in the Commission or in the plenary and inform the MPs and the public about this conflict. In this case, we place the emphasis on the order to declare interests under the law, where a conflict should be declared in writing on certain grounds from the beginning of the activity. Not all conflicts of interest can be known at first. They may arise in the course of the activities of the National Assembly. When it comes to implementing the law, we obey the law without recording that we are implementing this law in the Rules. Here all we need to do is provide additional publicity so that this information can be provided. All other obligations remain under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. For me, the previous version of the Rules of Procedure, which corresponds to the numbering of this text, with the inclusion of the vote, gives more requirements to the MPs and affects precisely this element of parliamentary activity, and not at all their obligation to comply with the requirements of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. Madam President, I've taken the opportunity to take the whole section into consideration. Let me sum it up. That means they'll drop out. 1 of art. 140, para. 4 of art. 141 and possibly as a replacement text with this addition to use the said content for the content of the provision of art. 143. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u405	Please only specify how the text in art. 143.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u406	In submitting drafts, speaking and voting in plenary or in a committee, a Member of the National Assembly with a private interest from a problem discussed within the meaning of the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest is obliged to declare it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u407	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u408	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov, I agree with your arguments against the text of art. 141, para. 4. We can call on our fellow Members not to support this paragraph. In respect of art. 140, para. 1 it is clear to all that the people's representative we have had in mind, such as the Temporary Commission, when writing this text, cannot consent to exercising its powers in the private interest of natural or legal persons, because we are 240 MPs here and each of us can have such a private interest and protect it to a certain natural or legal person. So, if you agree, let's add the word "private" before the word "interest." I think it'll make it clearer. Regarding the correction you proposed in art. 143, and currently the Act in force to prevent and establish conflict of interest in its art. 12, t. 4 obliged public officials to submit a declaration of private interest on a specific occasion. I certainly know that there are colleagues who do so each time on a particular topic, discussion and voting in committee or in plenary and declare such a private interest. You are suggesting something else about them not to submit such a declaration, which I think would be contrary to the law. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw this proposal and share the arguments I have just put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u409	Second line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u410	Madam President, Mrs. Atanasova, MPs! The line, I think, proved to you the justification of my proposals. Under art. 143 The Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest has this content, which Mrs. Atanasova quoted the need to make this declaration in writing. But my proposal actually adds another requirement that this be announced in the holding of the discussions in the National Assembly. Because the Law of Conflict of Interest works, whether we wrote it down or not. Once again, if you accept my text, we do not revoke the Law on Conflict of Interest, which we could not do in this procedure on the way, so that, apart from the written submission of information, this information will be made available to the MPs and to the citizens. That is why I say that in the text so far, adding only the word "voting', as I quoted it, continues what has already been done and does not cancel any of the requirements that exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u411	Under art. 140, para. 1 do you accept its addition to the "interest" to record the "private" rather than to cancel the subparagraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u412	Look, individuals usually have nothing but private interests. What public interest does the physical person have?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u413	They could be representatives of civil society. So what if he's a natural?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u414	Okay, I accept that, even though I told you, art. 138 said in positive form what is being done. But in order not to seem to accept my texts, not those of the committee, I accept this addition of private interest. I support the proposal, which has already been supported, for dropping out of para. 4 of art. 141 and the replacement version of art. 143. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u415	Any other MPs? The discussion is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mr. Yanaki Stoilov to reject the text of art. 141, para. 4 of the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 105 MPs: 97 against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov initially proposed art. 140, para. 1 to be rejected, then agreed with Mrs. Atanasova's line to make an editorial supplement, and the text becomes as follows: The National Representative may not consent to the exercise of his or her powers in the private interest of natural and legal persons. We are voting on this editorial supplement. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov made an editorial amendment in art. 143. It is not only about the written declaration of the existence of a conflict of interest which we are legally obliged to do, but also about the introduction of a bill, a statement or a vote to declare this fact. I think the text is correct. I put to the vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal. Voted 101 MPs: 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. In the following texts there is a proposal, not by the order of the Members of Parliament, but by the numbering of the texts. Mr. Philip Popov spoke in art. 146, para. 2 concerning the timing of meetings with voters in the electoral regions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u416	I accept Mr. Lazarov's offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u417	You withdraw your offer. According to the same text, there is a proposal made by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, which I am putting to the vote. It is also accepted by Mr. Popov. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Belemezov proposed an amendment to art. 146, para. 3. I recall this is what the MPs' website should contain on the Internet. We are voting on Mr. Belemezov's proposal. Vote 98 MPs: for 7, against 42, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Section 2 of the Ethical Codes of Conduct and Articles 138 to 148 inclusive. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u418	..the 13th Parliamentary Behaviour. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the draft and proposes that the name Chapter 13 "Parliamentary conduct' be amended as follows: Section III. Parliamentary conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u419	We vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u420	Under art. 136 The proposal from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 136, which becomes art. 149: Art. 149. (1) The conduct of the Members of the National Assembly shall be based on respect for the authority of the National Assembly and respect for other Members of the National Assembly and outsiders. It may not interfere with the normal course of parliamentary work or order in the National Assembly building. (2) Members of the National Assembly shall not be entitled to interrupt the person speaking from a place, to make personal attacks, insulting words, gestures or threats against anyone, to disclose data relating to the personal life or damaging the good name of the citizens, to have indecent conduct or to conduct acts that violate the order of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u421	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 149. Vote 95 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u422	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 137, which becomes Art. 150: Art. 150. The following disciplinary measures may be imposed on Members of the National Assembly: 1. reminder; 2. note; 3. reprimand; 4. withdrawal of the word; 5. removal from the sitting; 6. suspension of up to three sessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u423	This is the same text of art. 137, but instead of the reversible form of the verb, it is recorded to be imposed. That's the difference.. otherwise it's the same text. Statements? I won't. Vote regime for art. 150. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u424	Under art. 138 a proposal was received from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 138, which becomes Art. 151: Art. 151. A reminder shall be made by the President of a Member of the National Assembly who has deviated from the subject matter of the deliberations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u425	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 151. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u426	Under art. 139 has received a proposal from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. Art. 139, which becomes art. 152: Art. 152. Note is made by the President to a Member of the National Assembly who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures or threats.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u427	Statements? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u428	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest that this point should be dropped for the simple reason that otherwise you should create a huge list of all insults in the Bulgarian language, which, as my colleague pointed out to me, professor. Stanilov, it's about 24,000. If I ask you now, Madam President, what does the dialectic Rhodope word mean, for example, and some MP is using it against another, do you know what that word means?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u429	I'm hoping someone in this room will give me a hint. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u430	Here, you do not know, and there will actually be no way to implement the Rules of the National Assembly. It means snot, which is offensive, but you don't know. Mr. Glauchev as presiding...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u431	But at the expense of this, I am fluent in the Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u432	So there won't be any way to follow the rules. There's something else I want to ask you. Here the insult is a matter of subjective perception, which is sometimes of misunderstanding and ignorance, which, of course, is not insulting by you as chairman or chairman. There's gonna be a lot of embarrassing situations. I'll give you a simple example, I'll ask you to bear with me for a second. If I call for example Mr. Simeonov the President of the Patriotic Front, the Gypsy, most likely the President of the National Assembly will punish me because I have called him a Gypsy. At first Mrs. Tsacheva will think that I called him that because of the color of his skin or his behavior and will punish me. [[Radio.]] But at the same time, listen to me... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u433	Mr. Todorov, there is no such version of the text as you speak, if you hold such a vocabulary from the stand, I will still punish you, but not on that basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u434	You're speaking right now because you don't know what this is about and you're unprepared. With these exact points in the Rules you are proposing, we will fall into the same cases. The root of the word "gypsy" means untouchable! Is that an insult? Is it an insult? It's a pun. It's not an insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u435	Come on, cut the crap!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u436	Yes, Mr. Simeonov now serves power, serves GERB... [[Strong noise and lines in the center and on the right.]] Let's not forget that the same guy is spreading porn on his cable!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u437	Mr. Todorov, I'm officially giving you a reminder... [[(Reply:) Take his word for it!]] for deviating from the text discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u438	No, Madam President, I'm sorry, I'm not straying...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u439	Yes, Mr. Todorov. Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u440	... and I'm giving you elementary examples to understand that you can't judge what's an insult and what's not. You just proved it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u441	If I can't, there are 8 Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly who will handle it, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u442	I ask: if by any chance I will give you one more proof, I call the Minister of Transport Mr. Moskovski, tell him that he looks to me like a mangal, you will immediately punish me and say that this is an insult! But that's not an insult, Madam President. [[Loud noise, lines and knocking on banks in the center and on the right.]] Mangal is a metal vessel! [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u443	Mr. Todorov! [[Extreme lines of the MP Ilian Todorov with microphones off.]] Mr. Todorov, thank you. - What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please don't enter into a dialogue regime. We have an assignment today to complete the Rules. They provoke you, and you succumb to provocation. Last thing you want is a line. Mr. Bayraktarov. Then the other colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u444	For a statement I came out not for a line. If it's for a line, no, I want a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u445	Okay, you have the floor. We're listening. [[(Reply:.) There was a request for the reply.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u446	The coworker gave up the line. [[Radio, lines from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u447	She'll make a statement. There's nothing to replicate. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] All right, let's hear it. You haven't been on the air since last night. Here you go. [[Reply from "Attacka": "You" too.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u448	Of course, we're walking in a package.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u449	Mrs. Tsacheva, your experience in the air lords is much richer. I would like to ask Mr. Todorov to explain, after all, to the people's representation what the word "mangal" means because I do not know. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] PRESENT CECK TSACHEVA: Well, educate yourself, Mrs. Balabanov! Educate!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u450	Madam President, honourable Members! Literally, the word "mangal" means a metal or ceramic vessel used for carrying and burning coal or other solid fuel for different purposes. [[Lowered noise, lines, calls.]] Is there anything offensive about that?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u451	I won't, Mr. Todorov. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I gave the floor to Mr. Bayraktarov. Order, please! I'll call the meeting off!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u452	Madam President, honourable Members! I regret that all present MPs should witness such a misunderstanding, but now I remind you that this is why we wanted a drug test! [[Radio, laughter and shouting.]] Because you see what happens when you don't test certain people! [[Applause on the right.]] Otherwise, I should go into the rhetoric and tell the gentleman in question that he's not a gypsy at all, so he's not untouchable at all. He's not a poodle at all. At least he's a king's poodle! But I can't afford this rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u453	Mr. Bayraktarov, I address everyone who takes the floor! Control your emotions despite fatigue. [[Noise and lines.]] There are no lines. Procedure. [[Heckling]] First a procedure is requested, then I will give you the floor and in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u454	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest we call off the debate on this text. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u455	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u456	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am making a reverse procedural proposal, as indeed, although we are starting in this way, the point contains quite specifics. From this point of view, a little further in the texts, Mrs. Atanasova and respectively the Temporary Commission have written that the sanctions are much stricter when there is an insulting address to the Council of Ministers and so on. And I will tell you where the incision in this is in the Constitution Bulgaria is a parliamentary represented republic, i.e. the highest authority is really parliament. It cannot be approached with such arshin that against the MPs be one sanction, for members of the Council of Ministers and for all others to be radically different. [[Noise and lines.]] If we really want to raise, to be able to raise the rating of the National Assembly, not only to lower it, this point is extremely important from the point of view of the debate itself. And it's not normal to want to break the debate on it so you can just shut us up. [[GERB lines.]] Come on, Mrs. Atanasova. That's pretty clear to you, too. Am I right about this thing? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u457	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to end the debate on this article. They voted 91 MPs: 77, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Procedure in the manner of conduct, but before that, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u458	I will challenge the result, as I have told you, and I will argue again about the revoting. Indeed, we are voting on something extremely serious, albeit very short. It's very serious! [[Relations from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] With the argument: Come on, come on! Don't come out here for a re-voting! Therefore, please, Madam President, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u459	I am re-voting the procedure for ending the debate on this text. Vote 92 MPs: 78 against 9, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u460	Madam President, I also believe that the old Rules of Procedure, which are in force, do not allow such speeches. When a Member of the National Assembly speaks in such a language and with such disrespect to other Members of the National Assembly, you should simply turn off his microphone and be expelled from the Chamber! [[Noise and lines.]] What these people are doing today, it wasn't a coincidence that we wanted to have a drug test, that there were even psych tests and that we couldn't come in here with guns! [[Loud noise and lines.]] It's not a coincidence! [[Applause on the right.]] 'Cause imagine these coming in with guns, right?! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u461	I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 152 on the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 79 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] You were speaking on the ground... [[Noise and lines, calls.]] He made a counteroffer because before his wish to speak, he had said so. Mr. Alexandrov is right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u462	Thank you very much, Madam President. My fellow Members, I hope you understand why I voted against. I voted against it because you have just decided to do so to actually divide the government and protect your government more. I understand it's sweet on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u463	We didn't get to that text, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u464	Yes, we have. We'll get there and it's pretty clear to me...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u465	You'll say it when we get there!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u466	It is very clear to me that with Ms Karayancheva's threats: you will see! And with the servants you have in the hall... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u467	If you take a personal explanation, we'll get into an explanatory regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u468	I won't ask for a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u469	We heard the negative vote. Report the following texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u470	Under art. 140 proposals were received from Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports them. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 140, which becomes Art. 153: Art. 153. A reprimand shall be imposed by the President of a Member of the National Assembly who violates the order of the sitting or has created disorder in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u471	There are no speeches. Vote art. 153. Vote 88 MPs: 85 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u472	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 141, which becomes Art. 154: Art. 154. The President shall take the floor of a Member of the National Assembly which shall: 1. During his speech there are two of the provided in art. 150, t. 1-3 disciplinary measures; 2. After the end of the speaking time, the presentation continues despite the invitation of the President to terminate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u473	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 154. They voted 84 MPs: 82 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u474	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 142, which becomes Art. 155: Art. 155. The Chair may remove from one meeting a Member of the National Assembly who: 1. object to the imposed disciplinary measure in a rude and indecent manner; 2. continuously does not allow for normal work in the plenary; 3. vote with someone else's card outside the cases under art. 63, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u475	Statements? [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] It was in yesterday's texts, Mr. Stoilov. There is a hypothesis in which previous Rules of the National Assembly act until the new is adopted and this text is then up to date. Yesterday, Mr. Kazak offered to drop out in several places, but it's better to stay. This is the same text that has always acted in previous regulations. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Until the biometrics are in place. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] But it's the same text, Mrs. Manolova. The exact same text that acted in forty-two, in forty-first and forward. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Tonight at forty-three, it became absurd. He wasn't absurd during the forty-two. It's the same text, exactly the same text. [[Replications from the MPs Maya Manolova and Yanaki Stoilov.]] Okay, make an offer. Mrs. Manolova wants the word to make the text unabsorbed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u476	Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't mean to take the floor at all, but right now we're getting into an absolutely pointless argument. Since we are witnessing in the Rules how it is corrected by commas, departicipations, there have been absolutely unnecessary texts just because the reference has been corrected by the new Rules, leaving open nonsense that existed in the previous parliamentary regulations really makes no sense. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u477	If you offer to drop out, I'll back you up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u478	Therefore, we offer the text out of the cases under art. 63, para. 3s to fall because the construction itself means that there are hypotheses in which the MPs have the right to vote with foreign cards. If you follow the reference, it forwards in the hypothesis of introducing biometrics. We all know that biometrics, if a person keeps his finger on the board longer, can vote with someone else's card.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u479	That's what you do, and from experience you say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u480	In any case, foreign card voting is prohibited and sanctioned, so any exceptions here must not be introduced.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u481	- What's the line? The line is Mrs. Atanasova. No fatigue for the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u482	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Manolova, the text of the exception, i.e. the third paragraph of art. 62 is for the computerised system to be done by means of biometric data of each Member of the National Assembly. Until the National Assembly is formed and the biometric data has not yet been removed, it is possible to vote with a foreign card. So this text is repeated repeatedly by several... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Since several Rules of Procedure follow this text. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] I understand your arguments, Mrs. Manolova, but I don't know where you were for three weeks and you didn't offer it to the Commission, and you didn't come up with all the arguments at the Commission meetings?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u483	A hole? I won't. Any other suggestions? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Manolova's proposal in art. 155 When a Member of the National Assembly may be removed from a single meeting, e.g. 3 Let it be: he is voting with a foreign card. It shall propose the conclusion of the sentence other than the cases under art. 63, para. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's I accept, in any case, that there is a possibility of such a sanction of a Member of the National Assembly. We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 86, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] We are now voting on the full version of art. 155. Vote 89 MPs: 88 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u484	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 proposals were received from Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports them. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 143, which becomes Art. 156: Art. 156. (1) The President may suspend for more than one meeting, but not more than three meetings, a Member of the National Assembly, who shall: 1. insult the National Assembly, the members of the Council of Ministers, the President or Vice-President of the Republic or other bodies of government; 2. call for or commit violence in the hall or in the building of the National Assembly; 3. re-voted with a foreign card outside the cases under art. 63, para. 3. (2) The MP who has been removed from the meeting under para. 1 and under art. 155 shall not receive remuneration for the meetings from which it has been suspended. (3) The Members of the National Assembly shall have the right to challenge the disciplinary measure imposed before the President of the National Assembly within three days of its imposition. I'm making an editorial proposal to drop the item. 3 of art. 156, para. One, which was... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u485	Not all of the... has once again voted with a foreign card.................................................................................................... 63, para. That's out of the question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u486	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u487	Okay. First request to speak, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u488	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! This text, which will now be voted on, is one of the first steps of the regime. [[Radio and laughter in GERB.]] Borisov mode! So far there have been requests from GERB to close TV stations. I, my colleague Volen Siderov, prof. Stanislav Stanilov, Magdalena Tasheva, cases against us. Why? Keep our mouths shut! [[Radio and laughter in GERB.]] No, don't laugh, because there are no cases against your convenient opposition. Only against us from Ataka there are cases. I can see why. Because you clearly realize that we don't keep our mouths shut, and when there's something to be said and exposed, we do it. And now what do we get here in plenary? You can't express your opinion anymore! I'm giving you an example. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov in the management of GERB said: "We will not raise the minimum wages. If I from this tribune then vote that this is genocide to the Bulgarian people and accordingly that Borisov is a national traitor [[cheering and cheering in GERB]] Then Mrs. Tsacheva will tell me that this is an insult to Mr. Borisov, you're kicking me out anyway. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Of course it's for us at Ataka. We express our opinion and say it. Let's go. What exactly does insult mean? Isn't that what you're saying? Me, for example, tosses, lines, dots and all the things that come from the Patriotic Front can't offend me. I do not, for example, hold Mrs. Tsacheva or who is presiding to punish someone when she behaves as she behaves. He can't insult us. There must be some text here that those who are listed, if they feel offended, inform the Presidency and take appropriate measures. [[Loud noise and lines in GERB.]] Don't call from the gym. And what does insulting really mean? And imposing sanctions? Then give whoever praises the Prime Minister, the members of the Council of Ministers, the President and so on, to receive 5% on salary because he praised them. [[Arrival in GERB.]] Let's do it this way if we have to get there. It all depends on whether a person feels offended or not. In the case Borisov brought against me, I understand that he has a fragile mind. Because I said certain things that your Minister of Justice shared, he felt depressed, screamed, threw, did things like that. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] When you're in charge, it's natural there'll be reactions against you. Naturally, you need to be told some things in your eyes so you don't forget yourself. Previously on National Assembly and the President... Let's assume that the President, without personalizing, but his institution should be depoliticized, should represent the entire nation, the unity of the nation. When it comes to this institution, think right or wrong. But we're already talking about political figures here. Naturally, we are opposition and we are against the government, against the mistakes they make.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u489	That's good, but don't let them get hurt.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u490	Should I say words to Botev about how political speech is being held? Of course you're gonna have to hyperbolicize. You didn't understand the fellow who just said these things here. Ilian Todorov and Nikolay Alexandrov used a technique called hyperbola to exaggerate something to make sense of it. Because when you exaggerate, you immediately think about the other side. You compare things and you find the truth. [[Loud noise and lines in GERB.]] When a political speech is held, it is natural that you will expose. It's natural you're going to mock me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u491	It's a political satire.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u492	Of course you're gonna mock, of course you're gonna point. And satire you will. Thank you for what you said. Of course it is. If a person has a more fragile sensitivity, he'll get offended. We didn't come here to be offended and offended. We came here to tell the truth to each other. I list them again: the members of the Council of Ministers, the President, the Vice President and other bodies of government. Who are these other organs, I don't know. If these people are not ready to bear the truth in their eyes, if they think they are infallible, let us leave this text. But they're not flawless. None of us are perfect.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u493	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u494	Mrs. Tsacheva, I know that even if I suggested it, you wouldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u495	You guys do it anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u496	Well, I can now suggest in the tone of the subpoenas: And as the most extreme measure, the most severe measure you can impose is to give a match to GERB, so that a person will light himself up if I have to go down to the level of pitfalls. [[Noise and shout in GERB.]] Otherwise, what I am proposing is that it grieves the National Assembly, the President or the Vice President of the Republic. Let's just keep these. " Other authorities of the state authorities" "Who are these other authorities?" Let's get these things straight and then let's vote. [[(GERB lines:]] I'm graduating. We have no right to defend the Prime Minister and the members of the Council of Ministers in this way. There will still be a great need for protection, but let this protection not be here in plenary, but to do it with their actions and to achieve a positive result.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u497	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Manolova. We're taking turns. Then you, Mr. Todorov. And then Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u498	Madam President, honourable Members! Since you are very keen to compare with the provisions of the previous Rules of Procedure, let me make it clear that until now the text has included among the institutions which should have been kept by the parliamentary President by attacks by the Members of the National Assembly and the Head of State. The inclusion of the members of the Council of Ministers and all other bodies of government is a proposal of the GERB Parliamentary Group. Let me say seriously that the institute of disciplinary action has its meaning in really protecting and increasing the authority of Parliament, as well as of the Head of State. With the inclusion in the guarded institutions of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, the members of the Council of Ministers are really reaching for a right of the MPs to carry out parliamentary control. I will certainly not use the words "mangal" and "gypsy" in relation to the ministers of the cabinet Borisov, but what should I say to a minister who openly perverts the truth? I can give examples of the latest parliamentary controls with the Deputy Prime Minister and with the Deputy Prime Minister Georgi Bliznashki. Asked what extraordinary expenses the government had made, he replied that no extraordinary expenses had been incurred. What was I supposed to tell him he wasn't lying?! Well, the fact that he's lying, that he's being arrogant, that he's distorting the truth, that he's betraying the interests of the people who sent him to executive power...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u499	That's not an insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u500	Do you understand that the subjective assessment of the President of the National Assembly here has its consequences.. removal from three plenary sessions. In the way my relations with Mrs. Tsacheva are developing, this means that I will spend this Parliament in the parliamentary couloir! [[Laughter and shouts: "Rightly, correctly" in GERB.]] Because at the very least, as you have been convinced by today's plenary session, the archin at the leading meetings is not the same. Something that Mrs. Atanasova is allowed to make whatever lines you can think of in relation to me from the parliamentary tribune is immediately attached to the corresponding penalty for me. Excuse me, but I have been repeatedly involved in parliamentary control, and I can tell you that the language of the ministers is no less peppery than that of the MPs. So the Minister can tell me that I'm lying, that I'm talking nonsense, that I'm committing betrayal with regard to my constituents and everything, and he won't be sanctioned, and I can't answer him!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u501	In the towers, you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u502	Dear colleagues, this really GERB tries to stretch an umbrella over Prime Minister Borisov before he enters parliament. What are you protecting him from?! [[Reply of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] What are you trying to save it from? From the questions of the Bulgarian MPs? Well, these evaluations will give him both the citizens and the people who are on the street. We are the transmission of civil society, of citizens, of voters, of people. [[Loud noise and lines in GERB.]] Next. I would like to ask: in cases where a Member of the National Assembly has obtained a claim of suspension from three consecutive plenary sessions, to whom can he appeal this measure if it is unfair? So after Tsacheva suspended me for three sessions, I have to complain to whom? In front of her!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u503	To whom, until now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u504	This is the only case in which the person imposing the penalty then decides on its objectivity. I'm making a second suggestion. Instead of the................................................................................................ 3, the body assessing the fairness of the punishment shall be the Presidential Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u505	What was your first proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u506	My first proposal is for dropping the words: the members of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u507	It's the same as Mr. Chukolov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u508	I suggest it clearly so that you do not escape as Mrs Tsacheva escaped from putting the vote to my specific proposal. Let me get this straight. And here I will say that if you enter this text about the MPs, you will really take a step towards returning the second regime of Boyko Borisov. Here the colleagues are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u509	Mrs. Manolova, please end this so we don't have to make things worse with you, except with Mrs. Tsacheva. The line, Mr. Chobanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u510	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Manolova, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the example you set with the office. I think he was very successful and he's right on the subject. Secondly, I would like to ask you, as I appreciate your opinion, to interpret the following case: here is the record of other authorities of the state. If I, as a judge of sound public finances, say that another body of government is unnecessary, meaningless and merely waste public funds, should it be removed from three meetings?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u511	Any other lines? You tempt me, Mr. Chobanov, to tell you what the content of the reply procedure is. I do not know whether before anyone who wants the procedure a reply should repeat that the reply is an expression of opinion other than what is in the statement. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u512	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chobanov, yes, certainly according to the new rules that GERB has introduced, you will be sanctioned for such behaviour above all because of the fact that you are from a parliamentary group which is not tolerated by the leadership of this Parliament. The Arshin will certainly not be the same because if any representative of GERB says that the Finance Ministry, headed by you, has wasted government money, it will certainly not be punished either by removal or otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u513	Of course, it's a current minister. Of course!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u514	Here the problem is another one of you, and I will be sanctioned. But if you allow yourself to do so in relation to a state institution now headed by GERB, you will surely be sanctioned and have no one to feel sorry for. Just as in cases where I allow myself to make fair accusations against Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and tell him, for example, that he is lying, I will not be able to complain to anyone because the imposing punishments Tsetska Tsacheva will certainly not cancel his disciplinary measure. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Then I will have to complain to Boyko Borisov, who, as party leader of Tsetska Tsacheva, will have to give justice in relation to the insult that Tsacheva said was done to him in plenary. [[Comments from GERB. Communicating.]] Do you understand how absurd this situation is? You give to the President, broadcast by you, to remove MPs from three plenary sessions. This is the first among the equal, not the despot of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u515	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Procedure Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u516	Mr President, honourable Members, I propose that we put an end to the debate on this article and move on to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u517	A counteroffer? [[National Representative Mihail Mikov wants the floor of speech.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u518	Why won't you give me the floor? Mr. Glauchev, if you're tired, there are enough deputies or the chairman to come.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u519	I haven't been to the chair to get tired.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u520	I asked for the floor. You are leading this meeting in an absolutely incorrect way! [[Noise, shout, comments from GERB.]] I believe that the speeches should continue because this text returns the National Assembly in the time of Stamboliyski and Ferdinand. This text shows an absolute misunderstanding of the Constitution, which has foreseen criminal negligence for the MP to ensure the freedom of his speeches. This is where disciplinary responsibility is introduced. So the people's representative has no criminal responsibility for insulting and slandering, but will have disciplinary responsibility for calling a criminal minister if he really is a criminal. [[GERB lines.]] This indicates the final Bolshevik mentality required in the Forty - Third National Assembly. I suggest we continue the discussion. If we don't continue the discussion here, it will continue outside this room! And then you'll find out what's going on. Read the history of the group of farmers who have sat in the hall with craps to show the self-forgotten monarch. Looks like you want the Prime Minister Borisov to look like what attitude he should have to have to the National Assembly. Come to your senses! Read art. 69 of the Constitution. For what re-vote with someone else's card? So you can vote with someone else's card...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u521	Mr. Mikov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u522	I'm asking you not to end the discussion. I've made a statement, and I'd like to speak, or I'll speak outside.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u523	You are going to speak out anyway, the point is that before the procedure there were statements made by Mr. Alexandrov from Ataka and Mr. Philip Popov from BSP LB. Mr. Mikov's request came with his entry into the room. Before that, there was a request for a procedure, so I will do the right thing. I will give Mr. Alexandrov and Mr. Philip Popov an opportunity to speak. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u524	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members, the debate is indeed extremely serious on this subject. I'm gonna ask you something else. I consulted with my colleague, Notev. An insult, as a legal term, from here the lawyers can anyone tell if there is a legal definition? This thing is a subjective factor that will be taken by the President of the National Assembly. I raised the question to Mr. Notev to explain the following thing to me. If a no-confidence vote is tabled on a minister for failing to deal with his duties for a portfolio, can the minister take it as insulting that we have signed up for the request of his resignation that he cannot handle his duties, come to complain to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u525	What you're saying is not serious! You do realize you're saying some serious things.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u526	You do realize that more or less this thing is pure as a hypothesis. You do realize that more or less you are trying to actually isolate the MPs from being unable to respond to any statement at their address. Mrs. Manolova said very correctly And if you answer that, that is, the real people's representative, if he goes to answer that, he will be sanctioned. If Prime Minister Boyko Borisov comes and says: If you really believe that with such texts and with such measures you will raise the rating of the National Assembly, you are cruelly mistaken. This measure is only for the purpose of being able to keep your office so much because it's such a short life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u527	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? Mr. Mikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, no one will be able to explain to you what this is about. This is an insult or slander for which the people's representative is not criminally responsible under the Constitution. [[GERB lines.]] And this is a sacred right given in the Constitution of the People's Representative in defence of freedom of speech and expression here, by this tribune, of what he thinks. Otherwise, he'd have been punished for insulting and defamation. If that's... [[Relations from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] Velchev, I'm not explaining to you and I'm not going to do such an impossible task. [[(Laughter) Loud noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u529	Do not engage in dialogue with the House, Mr. Mikov. [[Relations from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u530	Even if I told you, you wouldn't understand. I'm talking to Mr. Alexandrov. [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u531	Don't engage in dialogue, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u532	Mr. Alexandrov, in second place, the National Assembly can hardly be offended because it has no will in itself. There can be no insulting, there can be desecration, there can be some other statements, there can be no defamation. Will must have one who must accept insult and slander. This is creating an opportunity in the Rules of Subjective Judgment, repressive measures, intradisciplinary, administrative measures in the National Assembly. Twenty-five years hasn't happened, let it happen. This will not improve the authority of the National Assembly, nor will it improve the relations within or the work of the National Assembly, because this type of nonsense can be born only in fascisoid heads. Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "A-A-A-A-A-A-A!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u533	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Next line, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] I shouldn't have given anyone the floor for a line until now. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u535	I ask you to stick to the reply procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u536	I'm hanging in there.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u537	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u538	My fellow Member, you are right in your speech, but you missed something. He's right, Mr. Mikov. [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]] By what logic is the authority of the executive in a parliamentary republic over the authority of the MP? Because in the article in question. 156, para. 1 For insulting the Council of Ministers or other authorities of the state the most severe penalty is imposed, and for insulting the individual representative of the National Assembly is not the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u539	Where is your consent to Mr. Alexandrov's statement? A little more if you continue in this direction, I will take your word away if you do not say what your disagreement with speech is.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u540	I have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u541	Don't doubt it at all, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u542	I note that he has made a significant omission in his speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u543	Yeah, and he's...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u544	That's my line. Thank you for the reminder and for the constant interesting comments. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u545	Third line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, perhaps what you had in mind with regard to the respect and respect that the citizens would have had is the MPs to representatives of the executive, including ministers, if there were no ministers who did not use, for example, the social system of France and lived on social benefits without having that right. Is it an insult from a MP if he says that? Maybe that's what Mr. Mikov tried to explain. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] By the way, in the text of the Rules, we are talking about disciplined measures that apply to insults and insulting words in the National Assembly. With regard to the application of the Constitution, there is another text and this is art. 69 in the Constitution. Yes, indeed, the people's representative does not bear, only criminal responsibility. I think there's a difference between the two and it's not bad instead of making such infertile speeches, educating yourself a little bit more. I really recommend it. [[Replys from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u547	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. A hole, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u548	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm not so much a lawyer, but thank you, I'm gonna look for a fourth high-level lawsuit to record, especially for you. Thank you very much for your guidance. Only what I read in the text of art. 156, para. There's no writing anywhere. I'm talking about grieving as a legal term. I asked you and you as a lawyer did not answer me about the grieving. And it's completely different because it already exists in the legal dimension, isn't it? I gave you a few examples because this thing is starting to turn, you know, into a simple form of dictatorship. Indeed, at least personally in my opinion, if you think that this way we will actually raise the rating of the National Assembly, it will not work. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You know what I mean. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Andonov.]] Mr. Andonov, I've been to the gym and you can check the transcripts. The rest that comes from here, you begin to explain the punishments from where they will be taken. I mean, if someone said it in the lobby, in the hallways, how would they define themselves, on what principle? Aren't we going to have at least some fictitious rules of this subjectiveism that you're trying to introduce into this article? Because it is one thing to say from place and if it is from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front to be heard from the other side of the Chamber, but not to be heard by the President and to say: "I have not heard, there is no charge! [[GERB lines.]] However, it is another to speak in the media and finally say that this MP will be sanctioned. If he makes it out of work, will he be sanctioned?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I mean, how would you define them, because the National Assembly, Mr. Dobrev, is meeting from Wednesday to Friday, including if he said it on Monday at the address... [[Reply of rapporteur Desislava Atanasova. Loud noise and lines.]] He removes you from a meeting, however, if you take it on the basis of a judgment of outside a meeting... [[Replications of rapporteur Desislava Atanasova outside the microphones. Loud noise and lines from GERB.]] On the contrary, you know very well what I'm talking about. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u549	I'm very curious what's going into the transcript now, colleagues. I am very curious what the stenographers of this dialogue are able to record, which goes between you not on microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u550	Thank you very much. I'm telling you, I'm not a lawyer, and I'm asking you because to me, it's a simple form of dictatorship and nothing more, and you can't just run away from it. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u551	Thank you. Mr. Popov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u552	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, a great deal of my presentation, which I wanted to make in the speech, has already taken place here. However, for the first time in these Rules, there is also a presumption of a foreign card vote. It's in t. 3 to para. 1 of art. 156. Besides... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Give me a line. In addition, I wonder how a government body will take offense. The next step will perhaps be that the state authority will be put in jail.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u553	Very original, Mr. Popov. Are you suggesting it?! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u554	Yeah, I'm putting it in the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u555	In para. One... [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u556	As you set out in these Rules, he will clearly arrange the entire structure of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u557	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: One, I understand, I'll put it to the vote. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] You want a line, Mrs. Manolova? We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u558	Dear Mr. Popov, you ask really interesting questions because these texts besides writing must be applied and there must be some predictability about how they will be applied. You are rightly interested in how these penalties will be imposed in respect of the abuse of authorities of the state, quoting precisely GERB's proposal. I also think you should have asked, and you didn't, something more important. As the text is written: The National Representative may be suspended up to three plenary sessions if he inquires the members of the Council of Ministers. Here comes the question of whether the members of the Council of Ministers should be gathered here, whether if you insult two of them you have to sanction... [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] That's the lyrics. ... Can you do it in relation to one, should you do it from the parliamentary tribune, if you do it in the couloirs, will you be sanctioned, if you did it in your public speech to the voters, can you be sanctioned? The disciplinary measures you put in the Rules should be sufficiently specific to enable them to be implemented. If it's a dictatorship, it's a dictatorship. From GERB you can, at least sign it in detail to know in which hypothesis what awaits us.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u559	A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u560	That's right, dear Mrs. Manolova. I absolutely agree, I have nothing more to say to you in the duplicate, but I will say that this so formed new majority will remain in history, only with a negative sign of these changes that you are proposing in the Rules. Congratulations! Furthermore, the Constitutional Court will obviously have a lot of work to do during your reign. [[Noise, excitement and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u561	Let us also enter history, Mr. Popov, not only your majority of the forty-second National Assembly. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? [[Loud noise, excitement and lines.]] What's wrong? [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] What did you vote on? I don't understand. [[Heckling]] There is a decision to end the debate. Is there such a solution? [[GERB lines.]] There is a procedural proposal made by Mrs Karayancheva for those who have been in the Chamber after it has been made must be put to the vote. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] I understand Mr. Mikov is willing to contribute to this debate. Ms. Karayancheva, withdraw your offer so I can give the floor to Mr. Mikov. [[Strong noise, excitement and lines. A line from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Who made a reverse offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u562	Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u563	If Mr. Mikov of the requested procedure for the termination of the debates has made a reverse proposal as I am informed in the Chamber, the procedural proposal must be voted on. [[Heckling]] I put to the first vote Mrs Karayancheva's proposal, on which Mr. Mikov has taken back a proposal. Vote 108 MPs: 85, against 22, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u564	I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u565	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u566	You go straight out and take your word for it. Come on in, you've reached your own stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u567	I raised my first hand. Mrs. Chairman, I'd like you to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u568	Are you questioning the outcome?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u570	Okay. I would like to reschedule the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. They voted 106 MPs: for 84, against 22, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mikov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u571	Dear Madam President, honourable peoples representatives! We are about to vote on an extremely anti-democratic and anti-parliamentary text which limits the freedom of speech of the MP guaranteed by the Constitution. It brings us back to the times of darkness for Bulgaria. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to check the quorum. [[Noise and lines.]] When there is a quorum, we will also ask for a roll-call vote so that those who are happy, who are shouting to sign up even more clearly in this action, which brings Bulgaria back about a century ago. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u572	Please, the list of MPs. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danailov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova is absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Nankov Nankov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pencho Stoyanov Penchev - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rositsa Yordanova Yanakieva-Kostadinova - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavcho Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Honourable Members of the National Assembly, according to art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure which we are still applying, the President in connection with an upcoming vote may carry out on his own initiative or only once in a single meeting at the request of a parliamentary group to verify the quorum by roll-call reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly or by counting the Members of the National Assembly's Secretariat. In today's plenary session, a little earlier today, in the early afternoon, a roll call was called for by the Parliamentary Group of "Attacka" which is why what I have just finished is unacceptable under the Rules of Procedure. [[(Loud noise, applause and cheering: Bravo, bravo!) by the Parliamentary Group of GERB.)]] I did not realize that such a request had already been made by the Parliamentary Group of "Attack." The hearing is ongoing. Let's move on to the vote. I'm putting it to the vote... Mr. Mikov's procedure. I was fooled by the Rules of the Forty-First National Assembly, where we had given two parliamentary groups an opportunity, but because the forty-second National Assembly was most democratic, there they limited it to one. [[Applause from GERB and the Reformation bloc. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u573	Thank you, Madam President. However, your delusion remains in the transcript and the background, of which it is clear that the National Assembly does not have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u574	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u575	Therefore, I offer you on behalf of a parliamentary group a break to collect a quorum because the Bulgarian citizens watch and listen to what is happening in the National Assembly and do not excuse the error of the National Assembly type to meet without a quorum. The Stenogram stands and from now on it will be attached to the request to the Constitutional Court. Gather your quorum, check after the break and meet with the quorum. We are not against the National Assembly meeting, but must sit in the event of a quorum. You have four groups of governors, gather in the Chamber and accept any texts you want. [[Noise and lines from BDZ.]] Take a break, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u576	As a result of the roll call check of the quorum requested by the Parliamentary Group of "Attack', a quorum has been established and the meeting can therefore continue. [[Applause from GERB and BDZ.]] However, as it is requested in due order rest on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria 15 minutes. rest till 5:30. [[Noise and lines.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u577	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The hearing is ongoing. We're going to vote on art. 156. A proposal has been made by the National Representative Mr. Chukolov in art. 156, para. 1, t. 1 delete the text of the Council of Ministers or other bodies of state. And et cetera. 1 will remain in the newspaper: The National Assembly, the President or the Vice President of the Republic. We vote on Mr. Chukolov's proposal. 100 MPs voted: 20, against 76, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mrs. Manolova in art. 156, para. 3, the final sentence, instead of the President, may confirm, revoke or modify the disciplinary measure imposed on him or her, to be the Presidential Council, may confirm, revoke or modify the disciplinary measure imposed on him or her. I support this proposal, because otherwise there is no such procedure as the authority which imposes the penalty on the chairman of the sitting, alone after that, to cancel it. We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's proposal, which I support. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The abstention is from the group of BSP LB. It's funny why you're holding back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u578	Because the Conference of Presidents is put over the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u579	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u580	There is no procedure during the vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u581	Madam President, honourable gentlemen, since it was a matter of an important vote, I have not to interrupt the vote, I will propose that when a vote comes on the entire text of the paragraph, once we accept or reject the individual proposals, given the importance, attitude towards parliamentaryism, this vote should be taken by becoming and stating clearly the will of each Member of the National Assembly for................................................................... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u582	I get it. I'm going to propose this procedural motion on a vote. Mr. Mikov did it too. I remember. I now put to the vote Mrs. Atanasova's proposal in art. 156, para. 1, t. 3 drop the text out of the cases under art. 63, para. 3 and to stay only by t. He has voted again with a foreign card. Please vote. Cancel the vote. Ms. Atanasova's procedural proposal is to drop the whole item. 3. There was such a statement, far enough back in time. I put to the vote Mrs. Atanasova's proposal to drop the item. Art. 3 of art. 156, para. 1. That's what we're voting on right now. Vote 97 MPs: 97. The motion is accepted. As there is a vote to be taken on the full version of art. 156, I put to the vote the procedural proposal made during the first time by Mr. Mikov and then by Mr. Ermenkov to hold this vote by roll call. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: 19 against 82, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the full version of art. 156, along with the decisions already adopted on the e.g. 1, para. 1 which dropped out, and in the proposal under para. 3. Please vote art. 156. Vote 105 MPs: 85 against 19, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u583	Madam President, honourable Members! You may recall from the past the National Assembly that I was one of the people for pure language and did not use insulting words from the stands of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u584	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u585	I'm still a judge of that. However, this cannot become a reason, a reason or any reason for introducing a text which limits at all the right to any critical opinion of certain executives in the country, even more so against those we have chosen. What does this grievance of the Council of Ministers or other bodies of state mean? Excuse me, the government is divided into central and local authorities. This means that throughout the chain covered by the Law on Administration, you have no right to tell anyone that he's incompetent, that he's lying if he's lying, that he's stealing, if he's stealing, and so on. Or God forbid you tell him something that relates to his behavior in terms of insolence and other things that we have witnessed here in the National Assembly. I believe that in this way you, who voted for the Council of Ministers, have put a shield against attempts to place some self-forgotten state authorities, including members of the Council of Ministers, if this happens. I don't know exactly what democratic and reformist you saw in this thing. Perhaps this point should still have been postponed and redacted in a better form, which would really protect cleanliness and upbringing in parliament, but not restrict the rights of the MPs in expressing their opinion, whether it was critical or a little more acute, was a little, as colleagues have said, hyperbolised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u586	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Atanasova, report the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u587	There has been a proposal from the MPs Atanasova and a group of MPs for the creation of art. 143a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish art. 157: Art. 157. Information on the disciplinary measures imposed by the Members of the National Assembly under Article shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 150.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u588	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 157 on the committee report. 90 MPs voted: 87, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u589	Under art. 144 was proposed by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in Articles 157 and 158. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 144, which becomes Art. 158.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u590	Vote art. 158. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u591	A proposal has been made by MP Chetin Kazak: A new Chapter 14 is created with the following content: "Chapter 14" ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL Art. 145. The Administrative Board shall be a specialised body of the National Assembly for the management and control of the activities of the administration of the National Assembly. Art. 146. (1) The Administrative Board shall be composed of the President of the National Assembly and fourteen Members of Parliament elected according to the principle of proportional representation. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to a representative at the Administrative Board. (2) The Chairman of the Administrative Board shall be the President of the National Assembly. In individual cases, he may authorise a Vice-President of the National Assembly to replace him. (3) The Secretary of the Administrative Board shall be the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. (4) The Chief of Staff of the President of the National Assembly and the secondary officers with appropriations under the National Assembly's budget may attend the meetings of the Administrative Council. Art. 147. The Administrative Board shall: 1. prepare and adopt a draft for a single classification of the positions in the National Assembly and the state of the services to it and propose it for approval by the President of the National Assembly; 2. draw up and adopt draft Rules on the work of the administration of the National Assembly and propose it for approval by the President of the National Assembly; 3. lay down the rules on the internal order in the buildings of the National Assembly and the use of the material base; 4. issue an opinion on the draft budget of the National Assembly; 5. give an opinion on the appointment, release, reduction or promotion of employees in the National Assembly other than the cases under art. 8, para. 1, t. 12, as well as competitions; 6. supervise the conclusion of contracts between the National Assembly and other natural and legal persons; 7. determine criteria and limits in relation to the expert information, social-bit and transport provision of the Members of the National Assembly and monitor their compliance. Art. 148. (1) The Administrative Board shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly at his initiative, at the request of the Secretary-General or at the request of one third of its members. (2) The Administrative Board may meet when more than half of its members are present. It shall take decisions by a majority of those present. (3) Each member of the Administrative Board shall have one vote. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u592	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal, which is not supported by the committee. Vote 95 MPs: 10, against 69, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u593	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the draft name. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u594	We are voting on the Anblok name "Additional provisions" and paragraphs with numbers from 1 to 6 inclusive. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u595	A proposal has been submitted by Atanasova and a group of MPs for the establishment in the Additional Provisions of § 6a and § 6b. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 7 and 8: .................................................... The distribution of all the projects, documents and other materials necessary to the Members of the National Assembly for their work in the Chamber shall be carried out through the service e-mail. The day and hour of distribution shall be the day and time at which they are sent. The President of the National Assembly may, if necessary, order the distribution of the materials in paper form in plenary during a plenary session or in parliamentary groups. § 8. The time limits under these Rules shall be calculated in accordance with the Civil Procedure Code. The last day of the term expires at 18.00
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u596	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the committee's proposal to create new paragraphs with numbers 7 and 8 and the content of the committee's report. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u597	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the draft and proposes the following wording for the name:
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u598	We are voting on the committee's proposal for a change in the name of the section They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u599	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the draft and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The order of Art. 48, para. 1 on the transmission of open meetings to the National Assembly by a parliamentary television channel (BNT) shall apply from the moment of the provision of technical and financial opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u600	Statements? I won't. We are voting for § 9. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u601	The Commission does not support the text of the draft and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u602	He's out of action, guys. The current Rules of Procedure § 8 state that the provisions of art. Art. 26, Art. 102 of the current Rules of Procedure shall enter into force on 1 September 2013. This text shall be of no relevance. I shall put to the vote the motion of the committee to dismiss § 8. We are voting on the committee's proposal! They voted 93 MPs: 91, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u603	There has been a proposal from MPs Mitev, Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... These Rules shall be adopted on the basis of art. 73 of the Constitution and revokes the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (prom., SG No. No. 53 of 2013, amended, No. 62 and 97 from 2013) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u604	There are no speeches. We are voting § 10 on the committee's proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u605	Madam President, I propose that we first move to discuss and vote on the Financial Rules on the budget of the National Assembly, which are an annex to the Rules of Procedure. And there are offers made on them too. Then let us vote § 10 on how long the Rules of Procedure have come into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u606	I shall put to the vote this procedural motion to postpone the vote on § 10, which shall become § 11, following the vote on the full Rules of Procedure, as the order of this paragraph shall determine the time of entry into force of our Rules. Voting regime for Mrs. Atanasova's procedural proposal. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Unanimously, the proposal was adopted without the opposition and the abstentions. We're listening, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u607	Under the Financial Rules of the Budget of the National Assembly were received proposals from the MPs Aliosman Imamov, Cetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. There has been a proposal from the MP Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports them. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the draft and proposes the following version of the Annex to the Rules of Procedure: Application to the Rules of Procedure Financial rules on the budget of the National Assembly Art. 1. (1) The separate budget of the National Assembly is part of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The budget of the Economic and Social Council shall be part of the budget of the National Assembly. (3) The budget of the National Assembly shall include all revenue from the activities of its secondary officers with budget, administrative and economic costs, the maintenance of the parliamentary groups, the expenses of the committees, the Members of the National Assembly, the international activities and the interparliamentary organisations. (4) Specific projects and programmes related to the formation of democratic civil culture, leadership skills and democratic practices in the decision-making process can also be financed from the budget of the National Assembly, as well as courses for qualification of MPs and leaders from all parliamentary represented parties and coalitions with a view to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. (5) The secondary officers with a budget for the budget of the National Assembly shall be the heads of the Economic and Social Council, the editorial office of the State Gazette. The National Centre for Public Opinion Study, the Regional Secretariat for Parliamentary Cooperation in South East Europe at the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Medical and Rebuilding Base of the National Assembly. (6) The budget of the National Assembly shall provide funds for the Programme of the National Assembly. Studies are published on the program website of the National Assembly. (7) The budget of the National Assembly shall provide an annual reserve for unforeseen and/or urgent expenditure. Art. 2. (1) The President of the National Assembly or a person authorised by him shall establish a budgetary procedure setting out the order and time limits for drawing up a draft medium-term budgetary forecast and draft budget of the National Assembly on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers to adopt the budgetary procedure for drawing up a three-year budget forecast and state budget for the following year. (2) The Parliamentary Budget and Finance Directorate shall coordinate and prepare the projects of the medium-term budgetary forecast and of the National Assembly's budget and the draft of the accompanying reports. The summary draft budgetary forecasts and budget shall be drawn up on the basis of the drafts of the senior and secondary authorising officers by budget. The Standing Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Budget and Finance Committee shall discuss draft budget forecasts and budget drafts and deliver opinions on them. The draft estimates, draft budget, draft reports and opinions of the subcommittee shall be made available to the President of the National Assembly. Art. 3. The use of the reservation for unforeseen and/or urgent expenditure on the budget of the National Assembly shall be carried out by order of the President of the National Assembly. Art. 4. (1) The Parliamentary Budget and Finance Directorate shall draw up the annual cash statement for the implementation of the National Assembly's budget on the basis of the accounts of the authorising officer responsible and the secondary authorising officer with a budget and shall present it to the President of the National Assembly, who shall provide it for an opinion of the Standing Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Budget and Finance Committee. (2) The report on the implementation of the budget shall be adopted by the National Assembly on a report by the President no later than six months after the end of the year. Art. 5. The Members of the National Assembly shall receive a basic monthly salary equal to three monthly salaries of employees by employment and service in the public sector, according to data from the National Statistical Institute. The basic monthly remuneration shall be revalued each quarter, taking into account the average monthly salary for the last month of the preceding quarter. Art. 6. (1) The President of the National Assembly shall receive a monthly remuneration of 55 per cent higher than the basic monthly remuneration under art. 5, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly with 45 per cent, the Chairs of the Parliamentary Committees and the Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups under art. 9 of the Rules of Procedure with 35 per cent, the Vice-Presidents of the Committees with 25 per cent, the members of a Standing Committee with 15 per cent, and the Secretaries of the National Assembly with 10 per cent. (2) In the co-chairship of the parliamentary group, remuneration shall be paid for one chair. (3) A Member of the National Assembly who holds more than one post shall receive only the higher remuneration from among them. (4) For participation in subcommittees, temporary committees, as well as for working groups selected by the Standing Committees, the Members of the National Assembly shall receive remuneration in proportion to the time of work, but shall not exceed 5 per cent of the basic monthly remuneration. In the event of an extension of the duration of the temporary committees and working groups, it shall be decided whether or not those involved receive additional remuneration. Art. 7. (1) To the basic monthly remuneration set out in art. 5 and 6, additional monthly remuneration for service and professional experience shall be charged for each year served, for the scientific degree of Doctor and for the doctor of the sciences and 15 per cent of the basic monthly remuneration for the national representative. (2) Members of the National Assembly may receive additional remuneration in carrying out priority tasks for the country. (3) From the accrued remuneration under art. 5 and 6 and by para. 1 and 2 shall be deducted at the expense of insured persons for insurance contributions under the Social Security Code, the Health Insurance Act, tax under the Income Tax Act of natural persons, other deductions determined by law, as well as deductions under art. 13. Art. 8. Members of the National Assembly shall be provided for all insurance cases with a percentage of the third category of work and shall be insured under risk insurance. Art. 9. All additional costs of accompanying and assisting a national representative with disabilities shall be borne by the budget of the National Assembly. Art. 10. (1) The transport costs of a national representative shall be recognized when travelling with the state and municipal inland transport, rail, road and water transport, first class, and sleeping space for the entire internal transport network. (2) The transport costs of the Members of the National Assembly on private bus lines shall be recognised in relation to their activities as Members of the National Assembly. (3) The transport costs of the Members of the National Assembly, selected in areas with which there is an airline connection and located more than 250 km from Sofia, up to a total of 40 airline tickets per year, shall be recognised as one-way or two-way tickets, and of the other two-way tickets to a total of 12 aircraft tickets per year, one-way or two-way, in relation to their activities as Members of the National Assembly. (4) Members of the National Assembly who do not own a family home in the territory of Sofia Municipality shall be provided free of charge by the National Assembly's Residential Fund, such as the costs of major repairs, type furniture, security through signal security equipment or otherwise, taxes and fees under the Local Taxes and Fees Act shall be borne by the budget of the National Assembly. (5) Members of the National Assembly shall be entitled to accommodations and daily expenses on behalf of the National Assembly when visiting the electoral regions. The size of accommodations and the limit of travel when travelling by your own car shall be determined by the President of the National Assembly. This issue is governed by an internal act issued by the President of the National Assembly. (6) The National Representative shall be entitled to a working room in Sofia, provided by the National Assembly with the necessary technical and communication means, as well as to an official web page on the Internet maintained on the server of the National Assembly. (7) The National Assembly shall ensure, if necessary, that Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria have a working space in their buildings with the necessary technical and communication means. Expenditure shall be borne by the Member of the European Parliament concerned. Art. 11. The National Assembly shall bear additional expenses of the Members of the National Assembly organised in parliamentary groups and of the Members of the National Assembly not members of a parliamentary group, amounting to two thirds of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly under art. 5. The amount shall be made available to the parliamentary groups which determine how it is distributed and to the Members of the National Assembly who are not members of the Parliamentary Group. These funds are used for the payment of assistants, consultations, expertise, premises and other activities related to the work of the Members of the National Assembly and their electoral regions. Members of the National Assembly shall inform the Parliamentary Group every three months of the expenditure which may also be announced on their website. Members of the National Assembly, not members of a parliamentary group, shall announce every three months on their website information on the expenditure spent. Art. 12. The budget of the National Assembly shall include the means of representative expenses of the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups, the Chairs of Standing Committees, and the means of welcoming guests invited by the National Assembly. Art. 13. (1) In the event of undue absence from a plenary session of the Member of the National Assembly, a retention equal to its daily remuneration shall be made. (2) In the event of undue absence of a meeting of a parliamentary committee, subcommittee and working group of the Members of the National Assembly, a maintenance shall be made equal to the corresponding addition for participation in the meeting. (3) In the event of undue absence of three consecutive or total 5 plenary sessions for the respective month of the Member of the National Assembly, a maintenance shall be made equal to two thirds of his monthly remuneration, and the National Assembly shall not bear more than one third of his additional expenses under art. 11. (4) Where, due to the absence of a quorum, the meeting of the National Assembly is not opened or terminated, the Members of the National Assembly who have been absent for disrespectful reasons of the meeting shall be held at the same time as two thirds of the daily remuneration. (5) The data shall be taken from the registration and voting records, references from the Chairs of Parliamentary Committees, subcommittees and working groups and from the stenographic protocols. Art. 14. The amounts set out in art. 13, refer to the budget savings of the National Assembly. Art. 15. (1) The wages under art. 5 and 7 are charged from the election day and for the additional Members of the National Assembly from the day on which the People's Representative has been elected by the Central Election Commission. Under art. 6 remuneration shall be charged from the date of election of the Members of the National Assembly to the relevant posts and to members of committees. (2) Ministers elected as MPs in the next National Assembly shall declare from which state body they wish to receive their due remuneration for the period until the election of a new Council of Ministers. Art. 16. (1) A parliamentary official who has acquired the right to a retirement pension and age shall, upon dismissal, be entitled to one-off monetary compensation of as many basic salaries as there are years served in the National Assembly, but not more than 10. (2) The parliamentary staff shall be paid each year an amount of clothing up to two months' salary per employee in the budget area. Art. 17. The National Centre for Public Opinion Study publishes on the website of the Center of the National Assembly its work plan, the research carried out at the request of the National Assembly or a parliamentary group financed by the budget of the National Assembly, the publications and archives made by years and topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u608	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Statements? Mrs. Atanasova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u609	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I propose an editorial in art. 6, para. 3 to the Financial Rules and I propose that it be amended as follows: A Member of the National Assembly who holds more than one post shall receive the higher remuneration from among them for one position and shall receive remuneration for the other posts as a member. As well as an amendment to art. 11: Art. 11. The National Assembly shall bear additional expenses of the Members of the National Assembly organised in parliamentary groups and of the Members of the National Assembly not members of a parliamentary group, amounting to two thirds of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly under art. 5. The amount shall be made available to the parliamentary groups and to the MPs not members of a parliamentary group. Parliamentary groups shall determine how funds are distributed, reported and controlled. These funds are used for the payment of assistants, consultations, expertise, premises and other activities related to the work of the Members of the National Assembly and their electoral regions. Members of the National Assembly shall inform the Parliamentary Group every three months of the expenditure which may also be announced on their website. Members of the National Assembly, not members of a parliamentary group, shall announce every three months on their website information on the expenditure spent. The additional costs are subject to the Law on Corporate Income Tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u610	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I shall put to the vote the editorial proposal of Mrs. Atanasova to supplement art. 6, para. 3. It's actually an addition to the text. The edited amendment and addition, as text is supplemented after comma. Voting mode. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of art. 11 as Mrs. Atanasova suggested. Vote 94 MPs: 90, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full contents of the Annex to the Staff Regulations of Financial Rules on the National Assembly budget, together with members from 1 to 17 inclusive. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. There's still #10 left.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u611	Under § 10, the Commission shall support the text of the draft § 10 which shall become § 11. I will allow myself to make an edit: after § 11 to be added: 11th sentence of the Annex to the Staff Regulations of Financial Rules of the National Assembly's budget, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-21.u612	In other words, the law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, after it a comma shall be placed and added to it, with the exception of art. 11th sentence of the Annex to the Staff Regulations of Financial Rules of the National Assembly's budget, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2015. This is about a change in regulation. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstain 1. Now that we have adopted Mrs. Atanasova's editorial proposal, we are voting for the full version of § 10 of the project, which becomes § 11 of our new Rules. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The proposal is accepted, and thus the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Forty-third National Assembly! [[Applause. Everyone gets right.]] The next regular plenary session is next Wednesday, 9:00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
