ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u1	[[PHONE RINGING]] There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. On the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure I propose as a t. 2 the programme for today to include a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. The Committee on Agriculture and Food on the day yesterday "17.08" has deposited a report on a necessary amendment, which should be in force from 1 January 2015. This requires the urgency of including this bill in our programme for this week. Please vote. Vote 163 MPs: 162, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Therefore, for today's programme t. 1 is the Bill for the Ministry of Interior. Point 2 is the first vote on the Bill amending the Special Intelligence Means Act. Like a t. 3 will be discussed this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that the Prime Minister be invited today or tomorrow, depending on the commitments he has to inform the National Assembly on the case that arose yesterday, that the government has adopted a decree that refers to a law not adopted by the National Assembly. The issue has to some extent been shifted in another direction, but this is the main topic and let the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy be here as the original importer of this proposal to give the necessary information to the National Assembly. We are not proposing a hearing procedure, as it would not be until next week, and the weekly programme has already been adopted. I therefore ask that we vote on this proposal, or if you wish to do so as an invitation to the two representatives of the executive power, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy, who will inform the National Assembly about this problem. I limit myself to the general name of such an unprecedented case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u3	Mr. Stoilov, which of the two possible procedural actions do I invite the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy, or are you doing a procedure that I should put to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u4	Madam President, if, in response to my proposal, you are willing to invite them, I do not want to vote, but if you are not going to show that will, then all I have left is the opportunity to ask the National Assembly to vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u5	Is there a reverse opinion on the proposal to invite the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy? I won't. I put this procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 166 MPs: 66, against 49, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Apparently, the majority think that everything is fine. Well, to order the chairman, let's get the case straight. I'm asking for a re-election procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u7	Didn't you manage to vote, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u8	No, the co-workers failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u9	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u10	That's why I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. The case is second for Bulgaria, second for the management of GERB and precedent for the forty-third National Assembly. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u11	It's a re-vote. Vote 168 MPs: 65, against 62, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! The reason for this declaration are the recent cases of violence in Bulgarian schools and the insolence of the responsible persons and institutions regarding the rights of children in the Republic of Bulgaria. Aggression against children has been imposed as one of the vices of today. More than 15 million children living in war conflict countries have become victims of severe violence and are homeless in 2014, UNICEF's analysis said. In Bulgaria there is no war and there is no conflict, but aggression, unfortunately, there is. Unheard perversions with children who cause severe traumas and personal and social. It is unacceptable for violence against adolescents to become statistics only. This is the vice of today. What happened two weeks ago in Burgas village of Debelt raises once again the question that never finds an answer: where are the institutions in the most important period of human life, the development and growth of children? Why are these children left to fight on their own, to experience traumas that brand them for life? Recently, the case of violence in the capital school of a girl autistic, who was abused by her educator, became sadly famous. Within a few months, two children were exposed in an educational environment. And how many victims they didn't share, whose rights have not been sought, we can only guess. Both recent victims of child abuse are children with social and educational needs. They are vulnerable children and, as such, should enjoy the special care of the state, as Article enjoins. 51, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. They are full members of our society and should not be the convenient sacrifice to satisfy inferior passions, to mercantile interests, to violate human dignity and the most sacred personal human rights. Children's life, physical and mental health should be safeguarded, not turned into an object of defamation or uncontrolled auctioning. The school, the homes for children deprived of parental care, the half-day and full-time schools are the places that together with the family must educate, must discipline and build values in Bulgarian society. On days of reckoning, given the events that have taken place and at the end of this calendar year, we need to ask ourselves: what do we require from the Bulgarian institutions responsible for their care? Let's ask ourselves: "Who cares about the children of Bulgaria?".................... because these are obviously not the institutions. Where is the responsibility of Protecting the Child who hasn't done her job, and why hasn't she done her job? We should also ask ourselves who is responsible for the inaction of these same institutions. The answer is very simple: we, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We who make up the authority of the highest authority in the Republic of Bulgaria the legislative one! We are the ones who make the rules in this country and appoint with our vote the authorities of the executive power, and the executive power is the one to which it must be taken into account why it does not comply with the orders of the laws which we, as a collective legislator, have forged! I would also like to add the question: when will the authorities and institutions responsible for the protection and realization of children's rights begin to comply with civil society? Recently, I was contacted by a non-governmental organization to protect the rights of the child, which showed me facts and documents from which, as a parent and a responsible citizen, gave me the creeps. It is about a form of ugly distortion the application in the Child Protection Act, which points not to the pursuit of child protection and its upbringing in a family environment, but to its distance from it for mass, unjustified transmission of children into foster care. I have seen for myself how important parts of the law concerning measures to assist the family and validating the will of the legislator to raise each child as a priority in its natural environment have been ignored in order to move directly to the ultimate measure of expropriation from his family. Then I asked myself: since this is not the will of the legislator, then whose will is applied and in whose hands are the economic rights granted to the Bulgarian children and their families? How conscientious and competent are those who deal with this most fragile and delicate human matter, such as children's psyche and child's health? I couldn't help but wonder, where is the role of the state, where is its special care for the children? People with what specialties, qualifications and experience work with children who are authorized to deal with these issues? Why did the state abdicate from its leading role, leaving this in the hands of the municipal services? Why, instead of helping families in difficulty, they are further punished by taking away their children, and selectively because it is evident from the materials received.. no children are taken away from really risky families, such as those living in the slums, but from families who live as 40% of Bulgarians, in short and insufficient funds. The last such case is in the town of Plachkovtsi. I find it unacceptable in the conditions of democracy to allow the devastation of children's fates and the destruction of the foundations of the Bulgarian family. Public and our energy must be directed towards forcing institutions to enter the working regime and ensure that our children, raising and learning in the middle, will not be harassed, humiliated, but will not be taken home by police and placed in a foreign environment. I believe that it is possible that the state institutions supported by the taxes of the parents to protect the children of Bulgaria. I believe that aggression against children is rooting out, but we need a special and careful approach, political will, consistency, determination and responsibility. At this point, I also believe that we need our intervention, fellow Members of the National Assembly. A debate is needed with the participation of representatives of all the countries concerned from directors, teachers, social workers to parents. Along with the commitment I have made, we will propose the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry to examine those who have submitted to the National Assembly and the committees of the Forty-third National Assembly complaints by citizens and NGOs concerning the rights of children. We will address the competent authorities for carrying out checks, and on this basis we will come up with a proposal for legislative changes in this direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Let's move on to what we're looking at today as point one: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Reports have been received from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, the Legal Affairs Committee and the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I use the possibility of a procedure because the proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act concern not only the regulation of the specific departments, but also the whole society. My first procedure is for a direct broadcast on National Television. I will use the possibility of a second procedure, as in the "Transitional and Final Provisions" are changing members in the State Agency Act "National Security"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u15	A reverse opinion? I don't see any. I put to the vote the first proposal for direct broadcasting, and then I will put to the vote the proposal for admission to plenary. We are voting on the proposal for direct broadcasting. They voted 165 MPs: 99, against 29, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u16	Madam President, we'd like a re-vote. You can't hear what's said in the stands at our end. There's a ruckus in the hall, order. We want to re-vote on this base because it didn't make any sense what was actually voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u17	I'm putting in motion Mr. Iankov's procedural proposal for a direct broadcast of the debates and the vote on the point that we're starting to discuss. They voted 170 MPs: 105 against 34, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u18	To be invited.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u19	Excuse me? To be invited, and then to let them in? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] In order to be invited, they must be admitted if they are not admitted... who should we invite? I put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber... Who is it, Mr. Iankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u20	The two presidents of the DANS and the DATO.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u21	Do they have names? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u22	Pinchev and Kitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u23	To be admitted to the hall Mr. Pisanchev and Mr. Kitov. Voting mode. Vote 172 MPs: 124 against 9, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Please enter in connection with the persons admitted to the Chamber and invite them to attend the plenary in the debates and voting on this point. Are we ready to move on to the reports? Report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 454-01-34, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 31 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I'll ask you on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote to be admitted to the Chamber: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mrs. Kristina Lazarova, Chief Legal Consultant at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u25	Voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: 152 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u26	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Act for the Ministry of Interior, No 454-01-34, submitted by the National Representative Petar Slavov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 31 October 2014. At its meeting held on 10 December 2014, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the bill cited. Mr. Krasimir Tsipov attended the meeting, Deputy Minister, Kristina Lazarova, Chief Legal Consult at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities and Nina Chimova State Expert at the Directorate of Legal Affairs. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Delchev. It offers employees of the Ministry of Interior to guard events under the Law on meetings, rallies and demonstrations, sports competitions and other mass events, to wear a personal identification number on top of their clothing, allowing subsequent identification of their identity. There is also a penalty for failure to comply with this obligation, both to the police officer himself and to his direct supervisor, if the obligation is not fulfilled. During the discussion some of the MPs united around the proposal that the numbers for each individual event be different. The Ministry of Interior supported the bill and said that at present there are road police officers who wear their badge, photo and identification number on their uniform. Using this existing model, there is no obstacle to describing the relevant texts, with a large part of the questions regarding where this identification number should stand will be settled in a sub-legal regulation, namely in the Ministry of Interior Ordinance on uniform clothing. After the debates, a vote was held. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, with 11 votes for the House of Interior, 4 votes against the House of Interior, and no votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 454-01-34, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 31 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u27	And a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 454-01-39, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u28	At its meeting held on 10 December 2014, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined that bill. The Ministry of Interior attended the meeting: Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister, Kristina Lazarova, Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities. From the State Agency "National Security" attended: Vladimir Pizanchev "President," Nedyalko Nedyalkov "Deputy Chairman," and Vanya Stefanova "Deputy Vice-President." On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov. In his exhibition he focused on the main accents on the proposed changes: First of all, restore the balancing role of the President of the Republic, both in the appointment of the senior professional position at the Ministry of Interior, the Secretary General, and in the appointment of the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security. Secondly, the restoration of the General Directorate of Organized Crime in the system of the Ministry of Interior. As a main argument Mr. Tsvetanov pointed out that SANS is a specialized body for counter-intelligence and therefore the elimination of such non-functional activities for this agency is completely understandable. Thirdly, restoring the competition start for career growth in the Ministry of Interior. Restoration of the Directorate General of the National Police as a single structure in the Ministry of Interior. The transitional and final provisions of the bill provide for amendments to the Law on State Agency "National Security" and to the Special Intelligence Funds Act. Regarding the amendments to the State Agency Act, National Security and other changes are being made to the Ministry of Interior to focus its activities on its counterintelligence, as well as on its information-analytic activity. The specialized Technical Operations Directorate of the SANS is proposed to be closed and its activities to be transferred to the State Agency for Technical Operations to the Council of Ministers (DATO). Changes are also made in the SRS Act, since the Technical Operations Directorate in the SANS is shut down and the powers regarding the application of the SRS are concentrated in DATO. In the subsequent discussion on the draft took part the MPs: Atanas Merdjanov, Krasimir Yankov, Ivan Ivanov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Plamen Nunev, Lubomir Hristov, Mustafa Karadayi, Svetoslav Belemezov and Atanas Atanasov. People's representatives from BSP left Bulgaria are against the changes. They insisted on detailed opinions on them by the Ministry of Interior, DANS, MFF and trade unions. They disagreed that the transitional and final provisions of the bill offer substantial changes to the SANS Act. According to them, a separate Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act is needed. They objected to the finding to remove the competition start and clarified that it existed when entering the Ministry of Interior, asked for a comparative analysis of the functioning of the SANS through the various governments, rejected the allegations of lack of parliamentary control over the SANS and the security services, as well as the balancing role of the President. According to them, the changes aim at the rapid change of the current Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. From the Political Party GERB as importers defended the proposed changes with the reasons for their submission and declared against the introduction of political speculation on this bill. They agreed that leading should be the police's request for a change in the system. People's representative Svetoslav Belemezov said it is extremely important the opinion of trade union organizations and the return of confidence in the Ministry of Interior system. After meeting with them, the majority of employees are worried about the cooked changes, and at the forthcoming public discussion everyone will have the opportunity to get acquainted with their views on the bill, he said. Mustafa Karadaye stressed that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and in view of this it is good for the President of the National Assembly to be elected by parliament. He raised the issue of appointing minority members of the Ministry of Interior system and announced that he would request such information from the ministry. To express an opinion from the Ministry of Interior, Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov took the floor. The Ministry of Interior gives its principled support to the bill. Deputy Minister Tzipov noted that numerous proposals from the Ministry of Interior for change of the law have been received. The proposals show some weaknesses and the need for changes to overcome these weaknesses. With regard to trade unions' opinions, the ministry has called them for activity. Mr. Tzipov pointed out that there are no texts in the bill that would involve changing the social rights acquired under the new law or regarding the status of civil servants. With regard to career growth Mr. Tzipov stressed that until now there has been no acceptance and promulgation in the Official Journal............................................................................................. With regard to the texts relating to structural changes, the Ministry of Interior expresses its support and will give concrete proposals to the Commission between first and second readings. Deputy Minister Tzipov noted that in no Member State of the European Union there is a model of service that combines counterintelligence, police and investigative functions at the same time. From the State Agency of National Security, an opinion was presented by its President Vladimir Pizanchev, who said that DANS does not support the changes and will deliver a detailed opinion on the bill, which you could then all read on the Internet. In conclusion, the President of the Commission Atanas Atanasov also expressed his views on the proposed bill. According to him, it aims to remove gaps in the current arrangements and to achieve greater efficiency in the activities of the anti-crime authorities. He identified as unconventional for a service the mixing of counterintelligence officers with police functions and reported as a mistake the removal of one of the police structures from its natural environment, such as GDBOP. According to Atanasov, the removal of the competition beginning has negatively affected the motivation of the ministry's composition, because in this way the career growth of the employees in the system does not depend on the results they have achieved. Regarding the appointment of the Secretary-General of the Interior and the Presidents of the SANS and the DATO, he explained that only a decree of appointment entered into the President's powers, respectively, for an exemption, and he could not, on his own initiative, appoint or fire one of those persons. The initiative and the proposal for appointment and dismissal shall be made by the Council of Ministers, which, according to art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is responsible for order and security in the country. The National Assembly should not have any bearing on the election of the President of the SANS. Atanasov expressed reservations regarding the closure of the Technical Operations Directorate at the DANS and its transfer to the DATO and asked for a mechanism to be found between the two readings to keep part of this technical unit working only on a certain range of activities. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 13 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour and no votes in abstention, supported the submitted bill and proposed to the National Assembly to accept it in the first vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we will have a constructive debate, because the subject is extremely important not only for the institutions but for the fight against crime at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u29	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u30	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u31	Here you go. We're listening, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am using the opportunity for a procedure, as I expected today's discussion to be attended by Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva. I ask that she be invited to attend today's debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u33	Thank you. A reverse opinion? The offer is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, to read a report on behalf of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Commission, control of security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act No 454-01-39, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 November 2014. The Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act at its regular meeting held on 11 December 2014 examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act, No 454-01-39, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Vladimir Pisanchev, Chairman of the Ministry of Interior, Nedyalko Nedyalkov and Vanya Stefanova. During the debates during the discussion of the changes in the SANS, the way in which the legislative changes were made was outlined by changing the Ministry of Interior Act or the SANS Act, the President's balancing role in the appointment of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, the competition beginning in the career development of the employees of the Ministry of Interior and DANS, the effectiveness of the Agency and its removal from non-existent functions, the passage of the Specialized Directorate of BOP to the Ministry of Interior and the associated problems, as well as the police powers of the SANS. Two opinions were formed in the discussion. The first in support of the proposed changes, in support of which Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Dimitar Lazarov, Atanas Atanasov, Metodi Andreev, Lyubomir Hristov and Valentin Kasabov spoke, and the second in favour of rejecting the amendments to the law by Dimitar Dubov, Atanas Merdjanov, Kamen Kostadinov and Ayhan Etem. From the guests regarding the proposed changes took Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov, the Chairman of SANS Vladimir Pizanchev and Vice-President Vanya Stefanova. Following the closing of the debates in the 11 votes vote, 5 votes against and 2 votes abstentions, the Commission approved the proposed Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act, No 454-01-39, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 454-01-39, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014. At its meeting held on 12 December 2014, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Bill. Colleagues attended the meeting as mentioned in previous reports The bill was presented by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Mr. Tsipov expressed the principled support of the Ministry of Interior. The description of the bill has also been heard in the two previous reports. People's representatives Mr. Filip Popov, Mr. Svilen Ivanov, Mr. Yavor Haytov, Mrs. Yanakieva-Costadinova, Mr. Chetin Kazak, Mr. Petar Slavov, Mrs. Desislava Atanasova, Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Mr. Christian Mitev, Mr. Danail Kirilov, Mr. Cyril Kalfin, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and Mr. Yavor Notev took part in the discussion of the bill. In the course of the discussion Mr. Popov expressed his opinion that the envisaged amendments bring back the previous regime and that the focus of excessive powers in a ministry does not correspond to the democratic understanding of the structure of a state. Mr. Kazak pointed out that a draft amendment to a state-of-the-art law of a ministry should not be submitted by a Member of the National Assembly without going through a conciliation procedure in which all the institutions concerned should express their views and opinions. He stressed that the amendments provide that the Chief Secretary of the Interior will not have a mandate. Mr. Slavov expressed his opinion that since the proposed bill restores the previous regime, it is not necessary to go through a conciliation procedure. He also pointed out that where there is no mandate of an authority, it may be released at any time by the authority which appointed it in the event of legal grounds. Mr. Tzipov reminded that for this position there was no mandate until the changes in 2014. Mr. Dimitrov expressed his support for the bill and pointed out that there is no confidence in the current regime and believes that the changes should be implemented quickly. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 13 votes for the House of Interior, 4 votes against, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior No 454-01-39, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Tsvetanov, on behalf of the importer you have the opportunity to express your views within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Today, we will accept or reject at first reading the legislative changes provided for in the Ministry of Interior Act, in the SANS Act and also for the State Agency. The achievement of these motives is a fact of the public discussions that have been made over the last few months. I can give an example of the discussion made on 30 July 2014 in Sofia, where we had the opportunity to actually hear the opinion of a developed democracy such as Germany and the MPs who attended the Bundestag in order to say their opinion on the legislative changes that we are proposing today with the relevant motives. I would like to make some clarification before I state exactly the reasons in the bill, such as a historical review of all the legislative changes that have been made in the Security Sector. Since 1991, all structures that have police functions, all structures that have been involved in their different names, such as abbreviations over the years, against serious organised crime, have always been in the structure of the Ministry of Interior until 2013, when this radical proposal and vote was made here in plenary. I would also like to remind you that, by 2008, even the structure of the State Agency for National Security was part of the Ministry of Interior under the name National Security Service and, of course, other names that it had during the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. It is very important to know that with the reasons that I am going to put before you today, we want to create a better working environment, as for all structures dealing with the fight against serious organised crime, but also to have a forecastability and consistency of everything that has been done by 2013. Because from 2009 to 2013, the changes that have been made in the Ministry of Interior Act, I can assure you that they have been made in constructive dialogue with the European Commission. There were positive findings in the European Commission's reports on integrity, which was introduced by the restructuring of the structures involved in pre-trial proceedings. You know that there was a directorate, also Criminal Police, Security Police, who were already united together by 2011 and so became actually the integrated structure of the police, the so-called National Police Service. Dear colleagues, what happened in 2013 The GERB Parliamentary Group knew that it should not have the same approach. We therefore waited for all committees to be constructed in the activities of the Forty-third National Assembly so that the relevant proposals and relevant discussions could be passed through the relevant committees, which would be made both in the Internal Commission, in the Security Services Control Commission and in the Special Intelligence Means Commission, as well as in the Legal Commission. I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the President of the Commission for controlling the security services, because just two days ago, we had another public discussion where everyone had the opportunity to speak their opinion and hear the different views. I am convinced that from the discussion held two days ago, some of the proposals made will be taken and between first and second reading to optimize the texts that we are going to adopt today. I'd like to focus my attention on a few points of motive. First of all, it is a restoration of the balancing role of the President of the country. Dear colleagues, in the turbulent times at the beginning of democracy you know that political consensus was reached and the President was the one who issued a decree for the appointment of the senior professional figure both in the Ministry of Interior and in the other special services with certain competence for the national security of Bulgaria. When this is introduced or restored, I am convinced that it will be an additional guarantee that we do not fall into the situation in which we fell in 2013. I say these things because in the discussions we have come to such conclusions. I would like to recall that the adoption of the Act on the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency for National Security in 2013 were made on a politically strong approach without absolutely no discussion. I can assure you that even those who voted on this, and it was accepted, were aware that they were making a mistake. Some MPs in the committee's discussion said they were obliged to make the sample option a mistake. It was found that we were actually wrong, and the sample wasn't supposed to be done. The second in the main accents is the restoration of the Directorate General for Organized Crime. I can assure you that all reports issued by all Euro-Atlantic partners for the period 2009 - 2013 gave a very clear assessment of what the Directorate General did to fight organised crime and, of course, respectively, the Ministry of Interior together with colleagues from the State Agency. I would like to emphasise here that the security system employs extremely good professionals. The fact that the legislator has thus determined to develop the security environment and that there are guides that are unable to implement the country's main priorities for real protection of national security is not a problem for professionals working in the security system. In this regard, I would like to emphasise that always all the appointments that have been made when I was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior have benefited from what my predecessors have done with the respective appointments, of course, using this resource, which I consider important to the state because it has invested in them. With the reconstruction of the Directorate General "Fighting with Organized Crime" I assure you that we will indeed have the opportunity to concentrate their efforts and in an integrated approach to implement the objectives that could be assigned by the senior professional leadership and, of course, by the political leadership to implement the relevant specific policies. In third place, the competition begins again. I can assure you that the competition beginning was introduced into the system of the Ministry of Interior in 2006 and was a function of implementing a joint tuning project with the European Commission. You know that Bulgaria set its goal for entry into the European Union, but for this purpose it had to close the respective chapters and, of course, part of this was to make reforms in the relevant sectors. The bill with the changes that were made by the then parliamentary majority of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the National Movement Simeon II was submitted by Minister Rumen Petkov and was a function of a working group that worked for almost two years. The competitive start gives the prospect of forecastability and objectivity in the career growth of the relevant employees. We believe that the legislative changes made through 2013 have taken us away and brought us back in time, where there is actually a subjective factor, and anyone could appoint such a person as could carry out certain personal or backstage problems. I can also say that one of the main highlights of these legislative changes is the reconstruction of the Directorate General "National Police." If each of us has bothered to read the 2011 report of the European Commission, there is an explicit mention that the reforms made in the police are encouraging and there is a political will to do so, leading to integrity in the police system. Here I can only add that in 2009 we decided that the Directorate-General for Pre-trial Production would be transformed and the dominators would go to the Directorate-General for Organized Crime to work and concentrate their efforts on serious crimes; also the Directorate-General for Border Police to have knowledgeers working on their specifics for all crimes in the border area. The majority of those who were in the Directorate-General for Pre-trial Procedure went to the Directorate-General for Criminal Police. You understand that everything we have done has been done in dialogue with all those concerned with the security sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u39	To inform you that time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u40	Yeah. The last focus is on the technical operations at the State Agency of National Security, which must go to the created State Agency of Industrial Operations. I believe that in the debates we have been conducting throughout the period of the submission of the reasons so far, we have assured all participants that there is an opportunity and it would be right to leave a small, concentrated, well-functioning unit for technical operations to the State Agency of National Security and to guarantee that we will be adequate and that we can fulfil our commitments both to the Euro-Atlantic partners, but also to protect Bulgaria's national security. I'm done. I hope that in the debate we will be able to talk to specifics and facts. I would like to thank again the chairmen of the two committees, of course, for taking the changes we are discussing very seriously today. I'm sure they'll benefit the public. The sooner the law on the Ministry of Interior is passed, I assure you that this will give the Minister of Interior a greater opportunity to make the ministry itself more effective. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Petar Slavov, please, on behalf of the importer, state your thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to be much shorter. The changes we have tabled with colleagues in the Ministry of Interior Act are much shorter than the volume changes that colleagues from GERB propose. For me, however, they are very important, I would even say extremely important. They concern the personal identification number, which we suggest law enforcement officers to wear prominently on their uniform in the security of mass events such as demonstrations, rallies, sports events and so on. You know that it often comes to situations where employees wear specialized clothing or helpers. Their faces are not visible, and usually people who attend such events fear that intentional anonymity of police officers is sought, fear abuse. The proposed changes aim to eliminate this particular thing, that is, every police officer will have in plain sight an individual identification number on which, if necessary, it can be identified. I am in a hurry to say that the identity of police officers will be kept in the Ministry of Interior, that is, it will be able to be checked and identified on a specific signal and in connection with a specific violation. Therefore, the concerns expressed by some police unions can be calm. I myself make a commitment to bring between the two reading changes that regulate this thing, which is to change the identification numbers either for each event, or once a month, but not to be permanent, in order to protect the identity of police officers. I think these changes will be useful in both directions: they will calm citizens who protest and participate in rallies, but they will also be useful for police officers themselves, who will be able to concentrate on the task they have been assigned to them: they will not have to reason and answer questions: would you legitimise yourselves, would you show your service sign and so on? They will have a clear number by which they can be identified later and there will be no need to answer such questions. I am convinced that this will also serve as a disciplinary action for dishonest employees who may lose their temper in some situations. Knowing that they're practically unanonymous, they wouldn't do that thing. Finally, I take this opportunity to thank the new leadership of the Ministry of Interior, which in principle gave support for the proposed changes. I believe that this fits very well into the spirit, which has stated the new leadership of the Ministry, a spirit of openness and transparency in the work of the institution. We immediately saw this in the first measures taken in relation to the activities of the DMV and in other areas. This was also seen in the response that they kindly provided to me, to a question raised by me in view of last year's protests and the many signals of citizens about abuse committed during these mass events by police officers with unidentified identity, in masked clothing. In fact, what has been established by this response is that, unfortunately, the then leadership of the Ministry of Interior has largely aligned these events to events where security is equal to that of almost terrorist activities. This is something really very disturbing. I hope that it will never again be repeated and once and for all the Ministry will work in the service of citizens, not against them and in the service of power. I hope you will support the proposed changes. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. We're going into debate mode. I just remind you that at first reading the bill is dealt with in general and in general, basic situations are considered. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! According to parliamentary rules, the philosophy of the bill and the ideas of the importers is discussed at first reading. Unfortunately, today this is impossible because there is no philosophy in the bill we are considering. It's just a rematch, normalism in spite of destroying what others have done before us, that's his motto. Therefore, the first sentence of the reasoning states that this bill is a reaction to the new Ministry of Interior Act adopted last year. This majority was named after the Reformer, and it's actually reacting, it's taking us back in time. Yesterday you returned with the Law on the Court of Auditors its previous appearance, today you are preparing to do so with the Ministry of Interior. In fact, the only thing Borisov's second government does is to rehabilitate the first by returning the institutions to the state they were in before, and this condition was not good, especially in the Ministry of Interior. A supercentralized structure in which everything depended only on the minister, the ubiquitous DGBOP, whose director was also Deputy Secretary-General, eavesdropping and squeezing, that was the Ministry of Interior that you want to resurrect today. We at BSP disagree. We do not agree with the President being formally involved in the election of the Secretary-General in order to clarify the responsibility for his appointment. Who are you kidding, Mr. Tsvetanov, with your anchor point for the president balancer? A balance between who and who? The responsibility for the appointment of the senior professional figure in the Ministry of Interior is borne by the minister and the Council of Ministers on Constitution. Do they need a balancer in their relationship? Or maybe since you failed to broadcast a president unite, you want to replace him with a president balancer? At all, the idea of changing the assignment procedure has one purpose. You know it, and we know it, and we know it, and the citizens, and the expert community, you want to change the Secretary-General, to put your man, and by removing his mandate, to subdue him entirely to your will. You've done this before. This is also harmful to the security of citizens and to the state of the system. We also disagree with the return of the Directorate General to fight organised crime in the Ministry of Interior. And here our arguments are not political. I know you're going to replicate me with Delyan Peevski, with police authority, with the natural environment of the BOP, it's rhetoric. The truth is that the results of the fight against organised crime are better than those in the past years. They're better than when you, Mr. Tsvetanov, were Home Secretary. This is evident from the opinion of the State Agency "National Security" which you rushed to disprove on TV without even bothering to read it. But even if you don't accept this position, even if you don't accept the reform we did last year, don't you understand that it's crazy after such a large shift, with all its difficulties for the institution and for the employees, to go back in just a few months?! I'm putting aside those over 400 proceedings that will be threatened by your actions. Imagine how those employees we walk around like dancing bears from service! Imagine what a signal of fickleness we broadcast in the eyes of partners, but also of criminals! We do not agree with the return of the fake competitions, which have made career development difficult for years in the Ministry of Interior. Contest yes, but upon entry. Growing should be the result of constant work and sustainable results, not formal and pre-arranged exams. Here I demand to hear the opinion of the trade unions of the employees who inspired the deletion of the competitions last year. We do not agree with the unification of Directorates, nor with the withdrawal of powers of the State Agency for National Security in the area of the implementation of special intelligence funds. On the topic of the SRS, we are particularly suspicious of any change proposed by the current majority because it has proven its attitude towards them. What we think about all the texts of this bill is actually clear. We changed them thoughtfully and purposefully because we thought they were bad. We dismantled the Tsvetanov model. You want to restore it. And if this is to some extent understandable by GERB, they are still the primordial of this denied model, I cannot understand the enthusiasm of the other partners from the quadruple coalition. Is this the understanding of reformers for reform? That the components of the block were among the most critical of GERB, right?! What about the Patriotic Front?! In their election program it is written that they are for complete structural change and units that control the work of the police. There is no structural change in this bill. On the contrary, it returns the structure as it has always been. As for control, there's not a word in the bill. It is clear, however, that with a politically dependent Secretary General, there will be only the Minister and we all know what this means. But I really don't understand our colleagues at ABB. How will they support this bill? It is still a fresh example, the memory of our common battles, which we fought against that Ministry of Interior that you want to resurrect. After all, this is a matter that will weigh on your political conscience. But one must be very clear: the quadruple coalition is the policy of GERB from the period 2009 - 2013, and you, their partners in today's government, are not a corrective. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Opportunity for lines. I don't see anyone wishing to replicate. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The careful reading of the contents of the bill shows a clear discrepancy with the accents that the importer just presented to us. The first focus, which led Mr. Tsvetanov to claim recovery of the President's balancing role by assigning the power to appoint the Secretary-General of the Interior and the Chairman of the SANS, is in fact a convenient way of diverting attention from perhaps the real objective that is being pursued to replace people who are currently occupying these positions. It is achieved not by changing the order for their appointment, but by changing the requirements for the occupation of the position of the project, in its part of art. 36, para. 5, on the increase of the required internship for the occupation of the Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior and § 42, etc. 3 concerning the requirements for the Chairperson and Vice-Presidents of the SANS. In the same context, the proposal for a change to the requirements for the President of the DATO, § 43, item 43, may also be discussed. 6 of the project. There is no way not to notice the discrepancy in the will of the importers in this part of the project. The Act on Special Intelligence provides that the President of the DATO is appointed by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Prime Minister, but the draft does not contain a proposal to appoint him by decree of the President. This leads to the logical question: why is it not necessary in the field of implementation of the SRS that the President has a balancing role which the project importers express in relation to the other two appointments? The determination of which civil servants will appoint and dismiss the President himself in art. 98, p. 7 has given the assessment, as appropriate, to the legislator, that is to say, where a law expressly provides for such a function of the President. Now, within a project, the one we are currently discussing clearly shows the lack of such consistency in the will of importers for the role of the President in the process of appointment of various civil servants. A difficult similar approach can be justified by the importance of the relevant structure within the state authority, i.e. that the Ministry of Interior and the DANS are more significant than the DATO, at least because each of them has its own specific subject-matter of activity which cannot be compared with the subject of activity of the other structures. The reasons of the Project explicitly stress that the changes to the other laws contained in the Transitional and Final Provisions are intended to achieve detailed synchronization in the regulatory framework, so it is not clear why the mandate of the office of Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior is removed, but the mandate of the posts of the President of the National Security Agency is maintained. Most likely the answer to this question will be formulated by the importers in the direction that this was the tradition until the adoption of the Ministry of Interior Act. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The second accent, which led Mr. Tsvetanov, of the proposed changes, he formulated them as a recovery of DGBOP in the Ministry of Interior system, due to the unapproachable criticism of its move to the National Security Agency. Moreover, the projecters explicitly stress that, as an up-to-date political imperative, there is the need for SANS to be reformed, first and foremost, by removing DGBOP from its composition and injecting it into its natural police environment, the Ministry of Interior. The careful reading of the proposed changes in this part of them suggests that the reform of the SANS does not remain only at the stage of the removal of GDBOP from its structure. In § 3 of the Project concerning the change in art. 6 of the Ministry of Interior Act is proposed as the main activity of the Ministry to determine the protection against terrorist activities................................................................................................ 6, para. 1, t. 4. The project does not offer an understanding of exactly what this main activity of the Ministry of Interior will be expressed in, as is done for the other main activities in the current Law and the proposals for an addition to this part contained in § 10 and § 11 of the Project. At the same time, § 19 of the Project, dedicated to the powers of DGBOP, proposes to be an operational and search structure for the prevention, crossing and detection of organised criminal activity of local and transnational criminal structures related to terrorist activities, the use of common means and substances, the use of fear, hostage-taking, the abduction of persons in order to obtain material benefits and violent actions. Finally, DGBOP in the Ministry of Interior system must be defined as a security service and not as a public order service within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, such as the other structures of the Ministry of Interior § 50, t. 1 of the Project. At the same time, § 42 of the Project dedicated to the SANS Act empowers the Agency to organise and conduct operational, information and analytical activities for monitoring and control of persons, objects and activities under this Law. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the same paragraph, dedicated to the activities of the Agency, states that such activities are to protect national security against violations aimed at the national interests, independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria, territorial integrity, fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, the democratic functioning of the state and civil institutions and the constitutional order established in the country relating to international terrorism and extremism, as well as their financing and those relating to the application of force or the use of common means for political purposes. If the regulation becomes a fact in this form, it will cause a serious practical problem to distinguish powers between DGBOP and DANS, i.e. there will be duplication of powers, and hence a difficulty in determining which structure should work on a particular case. The argument that such an interpretation is incorrect because the SANS will have a bearing on international terrorism and the GDBOP on that of the country is untenable. If DGBOP will also work on the activities of transnational criminal associations, what will the SANS work on, because there is no way that a structure belonging to the system of the Bulgarian state authorities should be empowered to operate outside the territory of the country? In summary, the proposed changes appear to be the first steps towards limiting the powers of the SANS, and this also raises the question: what is the purpose to which they are directed? However, this objective is certainly not in line with the desire of the importers to unload the Agency from non-existent functions and to focus its activities on its information-analytic activity. The powers of DGBOP proposed in the project will also cause difficulties in implementing the Law within the framework of the Ministry of Interior itself. The other structure with operational and search power is proposed to be the Directorate General of the National Police. It is true that in the proposal for art. 39, para. 1 explicitly states that it is excluded from the powers of the Directorate General "National Police" the activities related to organised crime, but it is a fact that there is in practice an organised criminal activity can be understood in the course of a criminal investigation already under way and not before. This will restore the practice of the authorities of the Directorate-General of the National Police and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior to start working on the detection of a criminal activity and subsequently to seize the development in order to implement it. Finally, in this part, it is interesting to hear an answer to the question: is the lack of power to carry out and investigate due to a technical failure or is it purposely removed? In the motives, of course, information in this direction is missing. At the same time, the project proposes that DGBOP be given the power to ask for disclosure of banking secrecy. § 51, p. 1 of the Project, although the Credit Institutions Act requires.... for the purposes of the detection and investigation of criminal offences................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The third focus, which was expressed in the motives, is that the project restores the competition for career growth in the Ministry of Interior. It is true that there is a proposal in this regard..................................................................................................... The effect of this change would be to provide the Minister of Interior with exclusive operational autonomy to decide by acting on which positions a competition will be held and for which positions will be held not, as well as what the form of this competition will be. If importers really wanted to return the competition start, they should have offered at least that framework, which acted under the repealed Ministry of Interior Act, the types of posts for which competition is being held, those for which it is not being held, and the possible forms of these competitions. Serious amazement challenges the proposal in § 42, t. 8 of the Project on the introduction of publicity in the conduct of competitions for civil servants in SANS. This publicity implies that the types of positions and the structure of the SANS are to be made public. I don't know what's forcing it. There's no record of that in the motive. And how does this proposal relate to Part II? 4 of the List-Annex to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information turns out to be an even more difficult issue. The fourth focus in the motives is the restoration of the Directorate General of National Police in the structure of the Ministry of Interior. It is recalled that it was established on 1 July 2012, but the new Law closed it in the summer of 2014, without any motives. The review of legislation shows that such a structure had been in place until 2008, and its removal was the result of structural reforms in the security sector since 2008. Whether there will be such a structure in the Ministry of Interior is an assessment as appropriate. The idea of not being there is mainly dictated by the effort to facilitate the movement of information flows from and to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, on the one hand. On the other hand, anti-crime and security activities are quite different as content and it is more logical to administer them by two separate directors, as was the logic of the current Law. Individual attention should be paid to the declared will of importers all the activities of the application of the special intelligence means to be carried out by the DATO. The project proposes that the DANS Directorate's technical operations should move to the DATO, which we also discussed when the DATO was created. There is some logic in this proposal and whether it will be supported is also a matter of appropriateness. However, there is a deviation from this declared will in § 19 of the project as powers of the DGBOP the activities of carrying out trust transactions through an undercover employee and carrying out controlled supplies (Art. 39a, para. 2, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. Most likely this has occurred by rewriting the old powers of the repealed law on the Ministry of Interior. Finally, honourable Members, but not least as a matter of importance, attention should be paid to a finding that is required by the analysis of the proposed arrangements. In § 1, by which an amendment to Article 1 is proposed. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act, related to the policies of the Ministry of Interior, does not contain that part of the current version of art. 6, para. 1 which defines as an independent policy of the Ministry of Interior for the protection of the European Union's financial interests. At the same time, the Minister of Interior is empowered to coordinate the fight against offences affecting the financial interests of the European Union and to participate in the coordination and management of the European Union funds related to the activities of the Ministry of Interior. It's in § 12 of the project. Furthermore, the inclusion in the contents of the Law of the framework relating to the AFCOS Directorate. It is true that the lack of explicit reference to this basic policy can be justified as the lack of need to indicate, as it is clear, but if art. 2 is adopted in the proposed form, will broadcast a message of neglecting the protection of European funds. This will certainly also affect our country's image within the Union. Therefore, MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support the proposed project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u47	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u48	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! As a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, I have had the opportunity to hold a number of meetings with staff from the Ministry of Interior during the last month, former Ministry of Interior officials, qualified experts, internal meetings including participation in a closing conference of the leading trade union in the structures of the Ministry of Interior under the heading of "Professional stress," the biggest challenge for decent working conditions. It is also known to everyone that on 16 December 2014 a round table was held on the issues related to the Ministry of Interior. I use the occasion to thank the Minister and the President of the Commission that such a meeting was organised that each of us, including NGOs, had the opportunity to express their personal opinion on the issues that concern the reform of the Ministry of Interior and the proposed bills for amendment and supplement of the Ministry of Interior Act. All these meetings and consultations that I held aimed, in general terms, to crystalize the accents in the proposed bills. As is already very well known and from the declared motives of the importers, the main highlights in general lines are: Restoration of the President's balancing role in the appointment of senior professional posts Secretary-General and Chairman of the SANS. Secondly, the return of the Directorate General to the fight against organised crime in the system of the Ministry of Interior. Thirdly, honourable Members, something that has been strongly advocated by the trade unions in the Ministry of Interior...................... the return of the competition for career growth in the Ministry of Interior. The only concerns, honourable Members, on the part of the trade unions are that the competitions in question must be conducted in accordance with clear rules and their strict compliance with those procedures. In fourth place, the reconstruction of the Directorate-General of the National Police, which will unite the existing two main................................................................................................ All these motives to the bills amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act aim to improve operational processes and achieve more effective cooperation between law enforcement and law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Various expert opinions have been made, addressing the proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, demonstrating their solid arguments to be adopted or not to adopt the Amending and Supplemental Bill. In general, honourable Members, as has been known these days and from the published opinion of the SANS on the Internet, the SANS and their opinion is contrary to the so proposed changes. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior generally supports the project and trade unions support it on certain texts, expressing a particular opinion and opinion. The views of the political parties, as shown by the discussions so far, are also different from the round table held on Tuesday, 16 December. The ABB Parliamentary Group will support the Bill at first reading, as we believe it provides the necessary dose of operational reforms, clear regulation of activities in the Ministry of Interior and improvement of the Ministry's structure. Dear colleagues, we will support the bill also because of the idea implemented [[partial applause from BSP LB]] the projects we are discussing to become public and the plenary debates to be preceded by a broad public discussion, which, once again, was held this week on Tuesday. We believe that this is the right way for the key projects for society to find their realization by seeking assistance and consensus among NGOs, experts, stakeholders, associations, politicians and representatives of the executive power. A broad coalition is needed to support a long-term strategy for reforming the Ministry of Interior. Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Interior system is facing serious tests and challenges arising from today's dynamics. I would like to quote the leading challenges put to the attention of the Bulgarian public by the Syndical Federation of Ministry of Interior officials, who are, as I mentioned, the largest syndicate in the structure of the Ministry of Interior. I will refer to their words as I believe that they are one of the most important subjects in the process of validating and discussing the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act. Basically, there are five of them, and I quote them verbatim: Developing a vision and long-term strategy for reforming the Ministry of Interior. Identification of the tools for drawing up and monitoring the strategy and including citizens throughout the process, or, in other words, the preparation of a mechanism for consultation and civic participation. Thirdly, a risk assessment in the Ministry of Interior. In the fourth place the professional qualification of the employees in the Ministry of Interior was increased. In the fifth place, Increased the confidence of the citizens in the Ministry of Interior and promote pro-active behavior in this direction. The following heart attack questions, which each of us must answer in our own way, can be outlined through the defined guidelines by the officers of the Ministry of Interior. The first one is: does the system affect the individual employee, respectively, the stress of the work? There were two-way opinions here for the simple reason, honourable Members, that, according to trade unions, stress at work is dictated not by working conditions, not by the challenges, not by the problems in society, but rather by the system itself. Secondly: is civil trust undermined in the Ministry of Interior? Thirdly, in my opinion, one of the heart attacks that we need to answer is: are there and are the necessary prerequisites for close, stressing, close interaction between institutions and services? Fourth question: are there opportunities to improve working conditions? Question Five: Does the Ministry of Interior provide the necessary options for personnel development and growth? I'm opening a small clamp in terms of personnel development and growth in the Ministry of Interior system. This can also be realized with the introduction of the competition beginning, rather with the restoration of the competition beginning. And last but not least,.. extremely serious flexion of key positions in the Ministry of Interior, some of which are police attachés or our Ministry of Interior representatives abroad. In sixth place, honourable Members, a major serious issue, also raised by the trade unions - early retirement. And then where? The answers to these questions are of a polyvalent nature. The existing public confidence atrophy of the Ministry of Interior requires us to look at today's amendment and supplement bill inductively, namely to draw conclusions first of all on the general nature of the processes of the Ministry of Interior based on the accumulated characteristics so far. In this regard, honourable Members, we need to show visionaryism today and, through the changes voted, to boost a new beginning for long-term changes in the law enforcement system. The ABB parliamentary group will insist in support of the Syndical Federation of Ministry of Interior and other trade unions to build a broad coalition, I stress a broad coalition for a long-term strategy and reform of the Ministry of Interior. Because, honourable Members, employees at the Ministry of Interior do not worry so much about the fact that changes to their system and the legislation governing the system should be introduced periodically, but rather that these changes generally have a mandate of four years, as is the mandate of each government. The ABB Parliamentary Group will also again in convergence with the trade unions will insist on the establishment of the so-proclaimed public council, which will restore public confidence to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, respectively in the security system in Bulgaria, and not least, in which the public council will actively participate the Ministry of Interior, trade union organisations, NGOs, political parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u49	Would you like a time extension, Mr. Belemezov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u50	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u51	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u52	Which I'm graduating with, colleagues. Based on what has been said so far, I declare on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group that we will support the proposed bills at first reading. The bill introduced by the Reformation Block, I believe, is extremely up-to-date and reliable. My proposal in the discussions at first reading in the Internal Commission was: that these numbers, which were introduced, be alternated according to the events. As far as the big bill is concerned, it really aims to introduce operational reforms to increase the efficiency of employees and activities in the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u53	Mr. Belemezov, your group has made other requests. You didn't give her time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u54	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u55	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Minister Vuchkov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I feel obliged to take part in this bill because it is a reform of the Ministry of Interior Act, which is state-of-the-art and functional. It is natural that political leadership is closely involved with the reforms being carried out there, because it must set the relevant political impulses and accordingly have the necessary legal instruments when it will make some functional reform. I very much hope the debate is more professional. So far, I think it's been working. In all speeches so far there have been many constructive proposals of both Mr. Merdjanov, in my opinion, both Mr. Hamid and Mr. Belemezov. With interest we will listen to the other proposals, including at second reading, especially. Mr Hamid, I can immediately say that there have been remarks in your speech that obviously need to focus our attention on improving the base, for example, in terms of this Of course it has to have these functions. Otherwise, she won't be able to effectively fight organised crime. And if such a omission is contained in the bill, it obviously needs to be overcome. This was noticed by our experts about a month ago when the bill was submitted. This also applies to the explicit requirement for all positions that represent career growth for a competition. There will be no exception. It's basically a situation. I couldn't understand your concern that for some there would be, and for others there wouldn't be. When it comes to career growth, there should certainly be a pre-declared contest. I would also like to stress categorically, especially as a result of Mr. Merdjanov's statement that there are meaningful differences between the situation of June last year, the known changes from June 2013 and the current changes. These are meaningful differences. They're not formal. First of all, there is no lightning rush for the adoption of the current bill. I would like to remind you that a year and a half ago, everyone remembers this, including citizens who are currently probably watching us on television or listening on the radio. The changes to the Ministry of Interior Act and the SANS Act were made for no more than four working days, including the personal appointment of the President of the DANS. It's not like that now. I do not see before the end of January and February at second reading to adopt this bill. If you can disprove me, I think it would be interesting to hear arguments. There are now no temporary committees to see as the bodies of the National Assembly. Then let me remind you that a temporary committee, the first, albeit called the Legal Commission, but still temporarily, has made this stressful reform of the services of June 2013 a Temporary Commission! There are now three parliamentary committees with our participation, including trade unions. I think this is a serious guarantee against possible voluntaristic decisions of the Bulgarian Parliament. There are now meaningful public discussions. This is a third feature of the reform in June 2013. Not only by committees. Mr. Tsvetanov mentioned on July 31st with the participation of international experts, including many years of experience. The other day there was a new public discussion with the participation of the non-governmental sector. Former heads of the National Security Service participated in the debate. Former leaders of BOP, former professional leaders who do not have any political commitments, all supported this most disturbing reform in your opinion............................................................................................. Every single one of them without any political bias! I also very much hope that I can guarantee, as far as I have the strength, that there will be no scandalous personal appointments. At the very least, because the law will not allow it and I will set higher professional criteria for the leaders who will hold senior professional posts. There will be no concussion. I guarantee that to you, too. The concussions happened last year. Six months of DANS and BOP, which had flown there, didn't work. This is known by all our international partners, by all the ambassadors, by all the employees of the BOP, by all the employees of the DANS. Now we won't allow such a concussion! Besides, something that hasn't been mentioned so far. The June 2013 reform, which ended on 14 June with a very famous professional appointment of SANS, then had severe consequences in terms of our dialogue with the European Commission. That's definite. The European Commission's report, which followed these reforms, assessed these changes negatively, negatively on a number of points which could be fully shared. We maintain our position that the State Agency of National Security, which is also the subject of reform, at the very least because DGBOC, the idea is to be taken out of there, continues to stand as a mastodont, a hybrid with unclear how intertwined functions and powers. This is a flaw that the bill, I hope, at the moment, will overcome at least to a certain extent. I would like to remind you again: DANS is the Bulgarian counterintelligence and military and civilian. With such a fundamental idea was created on 1 January 2008 and currently its main activity is counterintelligence. It has information analytic activity in second place. There's the Bureau of Financial Intelligence, right, since 2008. He was in the Ministry of Finance until then. Did you do your job? Whether we should appreciate this work of this office, this directorate, at all of the Agency, after every Wednesday at the Council of Ministers billions of levs from the Bulgarian taxpayer we simply transfer to accounts because of this huge gaffe called the Corporate Commercial Bank. If there were serious institutions, especially a serious bureau of financial intelligence, we would probably save some and another billion to the Bulgarian taxpayer. At the moment, the DANS has police powers along with counterintelligence, which means she can arrest, search. DANS also has investigative functions under the PPC rules. She never had such functions historically. In June last year, without any debate, without any arguments, she also obtained the power to collect evidence under the PPC rules. I really shared it the other day at the public discussion. No one imagined that counterintelligence could be involved in police powers, gathering evidence from the PPC. Even in spy movies and novels that are really stuffed with a lot of science fiction, we can't face counterintelligence going around a crime scene with a prosecutor and a court and filling out evidence collection protocols. I think any of us can understand that. In some laws, such as in Germany, mixing such powers of counterintelligence, information and analysis, intelligence services, police powers and criminal procedure code is prohibited in view of the bitter historical experience. I think we should think about that. I respect the opinion expressed by the management of the SANS published on its website three days ago. But against each of your positions, Mr. Pisanchev, there can be very serious counterarguments. Especially one of the texts in your position is a great surprise to me. It is about the powers of the SANS to collect evidence under the PPC rules. About a year and a half ago, with the changes that were speedily pushed through, for the first time the DANS began collecting evidence and to have investigative bodies called, pay attention,.. investigators. What crimes do you collect evidence for? Who can say that? I remember the commotion in the plenary because the rapid changes did not answer that question. Until now, investigators have always known in the history of Bulgaria about what crimes they are investigating, police about what crimes, customs officers for what crimes. For the first time in the PPC last year was written a text, note that the investigative agents of the SANS collect evidence not for specific crimes of the Criminal Code, but with the general phrase: When the actions coincide with the powers of the Agency. What are these acts? The other day, in your opinion, I read the following: Next, the Instruction for Interaction between the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and SANS on 22 July. 2014 contains a comprehensive list of crimes with specified provisions of the Criminal Code, which will be investigated by investigating agents. This is absolutely not serious with an instruction which has not even been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, to designate the subject of the conviction of investigative agents from the DANS. My opinion is that the SANS cannot cope with this great challenge... investigating crimes under the PPC. And the reference that 400 pre-trial proceedings are in jeopardy is, in my opinion, not justified. If only 400 pre-trial proceedings are involved, this should not be any problem, because there are over 200,000 pre-trial proceedings in the Ministry of Interior. Four hundred more or less, I think it's okay for the Ministry of Interior to take over these investigations. Of course, it is very important to ensure that we do not interrupt the work on these pre-trial proceedings, something that was done quite deliberately a year and a half ago. Once again, I want to make guarantees in at least two directions: first of all, that this reform will pass without turmoil, and second of all, it is not an intuit persona in view of a particular person. There was a lot of talk about why the President should appoint the senior professional figure at the DANS. And in the Ministry of Interior, we have shared this many times, we can repeat it again. It is a balancing role and a function that has had for 25 years and is unclear why it was taken away. You have to keep this good decision. You will allow me to make a very final call to you for additional support on certain points, which obviously also come on the agenda in the interior ministry, in the context of the absolutely mandatory administrative reform, which, however, is subject to the budget that the Ministry of Interior will receive for spending next year. Once again, I'm putting my budget on the line. I hope we will have additional support from you, especially against the backdrop of the DATO budgets, which are over 40 million. BGN, and DANS, which is 110 million. lv. Given that the Ministry of Interior employs 47,000 people, you can see for yourself why other security structures should have such disproportionate budgets against the background of the staff working in them. In this sense, I can share that the Budget Act next year does not seem to foresee any serious reform, including on the topic of Security. Administrative reform is needed and we will try with my team to propose texts between first and second readings to ensure that it happens from at least 1 April. It is necessary for the State Staff Act to operate both in the Ministry of Interior and in the DANS and in the DATO and in other services in relation to the so-called............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is inexplicable to the public that all government officials in the DANS, in the Ministry of Interior, in the DATO work first category of work. That's not fair. It is necessary, in particular, to the so-called accountancy, lawyers, international activity, human resources and so on, explicitly referred to in the law, to work under the Law on the Civil Service. And in order for there not to be any extraordinary shocks, I would ask the law to record that from a certain date, for example, from April 1st. In 2015 only newly appointed employees of such administrative positions will work under the Law on the Civil Service Officer. This is a reform that has been postponed for 25 years and it is high time it happened. It solves a bunch of problems both in terms of the easy transition of one structure to another, and in terms of transferring a state service from one structure to another, and in terms of pension reform and so on. I say, no concussions and only for newly appointed administrative positions. In addition, it is high time to think about this: this specific state service, which performs firefighters and policemen who perform the staff of the SANS, in the DATO, in prisons and elsewhere, why there are so many differences between them. Why is the public service in the DANS different from that of the Ministry of Interior, compared even to the one in the DATO or elsewhere, including "Intelligence"? It must in the same way take place in all of these specific state structures and in terms of appointment, in respect of salaries, remuneration coefficients, in terms of retirement conditions, for exemption, leave and so on. These differences are absolutely inexplicable and constantly fuel tensions between the Ministry of Interior and the DANS at the beginning, now between the Ministry of Interior and the DATO. It is high time to develop a single type state service, I do not speak under the Civil Service Act, a state service just for firefighters, police officers, SANS employees and so on. By the way, the Civil Service Act should also enter into the administration not only in the Ministry of Interior, but also in the DANS, in the intelligence, in the State Agency of Industrial Operations (DATO) and in all other services. I would like to say very strongly: in respect of all working civil servants in the Ministry of Interior, mainly firefighters and police officers, but in respect of all this bill does not foresee any cutting of social rights. We, as political leadership, can guarantee it. There is neither a reduction in wages nor a limitation of benefits in the case of retired or leaving a public service. I can assure you that strongly, because there are concerns among the firemen and the police. In the end, some of the trade unions expressed concerns about the fact that the Bill provides for a reimbursement of the authority of the assignment.. this is mostly the minister, but not only him, to release employees of the Ministry of Interior before they are over 60 years old, but when they have acquired the right to a pension. I can assure you that this is not the biggest problem of the current Ministry of Interior Act. If there really are such more serious concerns expressed by trade unions or political structures, I am willing to make a discount. That is to say to maintain the current situation when an officer of the Ministry of Interior cannot be released before he is 60 years old, but at the same time I would like to note that such powers stand in relation to the DANS and I do not know why they should be there and that they should not be in the Ministry of Interior. In conclusion, once again, I call on us to isolate ourselves from serious political debates in the sense of extreme opposition and to adopt laws that will ensure that the services do their job, that firefighters and policemen will duly fulfil their obligations and ultimately ensure greater security for the Bulgarian citizens, for which we are actually elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Yesterday the National Assembly ratified without legal basis and without sufficient information Agreement with the German Government for undue payment of the company. It is a deal between the governments of Germany and Bulgaria in favour of a private company without any legal basis. A deal that damages Bulgarian taxpayers by 4 million. lv. and in no way raises the authority of foreign investors who come to Bulgaria. Today Bulgaria is in a monitoring procedure for the judiciary. Everyone supports and talks about reforming the judiciary in order for Bulgaria to be the rule of law. However, this cannot be done with an example of illegal acts of government and parliament. It is obvious that in this case the right falls victim to the private foreign business interest. If the German side protects its business by all means, nothing can justify the servitude of our government and parliament. It is ugly that the National Assembly is involved in this affair. The quadruple coalition has subjected the rule over the law of foreign private business interest. This discredits the 43rd National Assembly and its ability protects the interests of the citizens. We from BSP left Bulgaria and insist that the President of the Republic not become an accomplice in this damage to poor Bulgaria. We call Mr. Rosen Plevneliev on the grounds of art. 101 of the Constitution to bring back for a new discussion the adopted Law on ratification of the Agreement on mutual agreement on damage to the case. The affair will be an attestation for the Bulgarian institutions, their ability to protect national interests and citizens' interest, their ability to defend the law and Bulgarian interests above all, not the interests of foreign private companies. This attestation will be proof whether Bulgaria can be the rule of law or if only the talk of rule of law remains. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. We are continuing with the debate on the bills for amendment and supplement of the Ministry of Interior Act. To take turns between the different parliamentary groups, I will now give the floor to Mr. Dedev, then to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, because of these two groups there were no speakers, then Mr. Dubov and Mr. Miho Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u60	Madam President, honourable Members, I will be as brief as possible. I would like to call on my fellow Members to support the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act because we need to restore an injustice that is very arrogant, one year ago, my colleagues changed in just five days and I will remind you of that. [[BSP LB.]] Make it four. For so many more you gave access to classified information to one person, then a whole year they asked: "Who?" Then you gave some power to a counterintelligence function that you had 30 years ago, another service that you reject. It's a fact. We're walking in the years of democracy and we've rejected once upon a time. I think we all agree that in this kind of state agency can't stay. Justice requires the Office for the Fight against Organized Crime to return to the Ministry of Interior, where it belongs. Of course, we also have a claim to the management of the state agency, although there are some orders issued by this leadership that are contrary to the agenda of the public, but this is a topic that will be discussed within the committee. Regarding these 400 cases of which the management of the Agency speaks, I would mention that in most part they are in the prerogatives of the BSC and nothing would prevent them from being considered in the framework of the criminal process under which the Ministry of Interior is a party. I urge you to strongly disagree with the arguments of colleagues on the left, because they do not bring anything good in the fight against crime, but rather cover some such events. As an example of the last time I will give the case of CCB Financial Intelligence, Financial Directorate, and no information or at least no action. If there's a lack of information, it means one incompetence. If there's information and cover-up, it means crime. So there's no escape from this enchanted circle. I think that with the changes we will adopt with this law at first reading, it will be good for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u61	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Emil Dimitrov of the Patriotic Front Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u62	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try very briefly to express the opinion that we have on the issue of the Ministry of Interior Act and, in particular, the most difficult moment for all of us. As the previous spokespersons said, the DGBOP historically from 1991 to 2013 was in the Ministry of Interior. Suddenly, after 22 years at the Ministry of Interior in one year, reform is decided. He goes to DANS and we see that this is a failed and failed year. Now the question is: shouldn't we put it back where it is historically and where it has worked so far? At the same time, in one year I did not see any real facts about the main activity of counterintelligence. We've seen shows in psychiatry, big inscriptions, and we're chasing in there someone with three cans who didn't get his account at the warehouse, the cartel. We saw shares with a mayor for 1,400 leva; a show action by "Lesovo" where 36 people kept them on the ground, including sick women, six hours on the asphalt, not because they were guilty, but because of the photos, but at the same time caught two policemen with money nowhere understood and hid them. This isn't the way. The expression "mutes" in uniform came because the difference is that one is with bats and the other is with bats the real goons. That wasn't the look I wanted to see. When they came here and asked the other colleagues what DANS was doing, we heard that we have sleeping cells, we heard a re-story in a picture, and the DANS is currently costing us 2.6 billion this year, plus the DANS budget, because everything that happened at KTB, we're paying it. Money was asked for eavesdropping, external surveillance, information control, equipment, all this worked out. The goal of DGBOP to go is so that counterintelligence can also be the fight against terrorism. As a result, the functions of the Ministry of Interior were duplicated. We had two Ministry of Interior in Bulgaria. And the result is huge salaries, lobbying and construction. How many people were given access just because they didn't enjoy a certain political power? We're not talking about sleeper cells. Do we need reforms to get out of Bulgaria's image? I'll tell you what happened in 2001 in America. After that bombing, America, which is a land of historical overlays, values, traditions, where even the president is now the supreme commander, the world's largest chief, as they say, is being protected by the Treasury Department. The Treasury Department protects the chief of all armies. But what happened? In 2001, a terrorist act. They said: very good are historical values, givens, very nice live here, but this happened. And they've reorganized 18 services -- intelligence, counterintelligence, the Homeland Security Ministry, and they've re-created them just because it's obvious that the model so created doesn't work, and we need to make a new one that works. And after 22 years of moving, we see that it doesn't work, the argument is whether to bring it back. What happened at my place? We have three units dealing with economic crime in this office DANS: the NSA, the Financial Intelligence Bureau and the economic direction of DGBOP. And what happened, KTB. We have problems in energy, we have problems in BDZ, we have problems in smuggling. None of these problems have been solved this year. For me, therefore, the question of whether we need a reform must, because New Year is coming, and these challenges will not end with this one-time payment that we have made. In this form, the services that work, as they said in America, we really like them, and I like them all very much here. Are they working? No. Do we have confidence in this service? No. Do we have security? No. Are the challenges gonna pass us by next year? They won't pass us by. Mr. Minister, I am using this case not to get up a second time: I sincerely hope and will vote on this Law to be passed. I would like to move the service with you, along with the budget, along with the footage, but without the Trojan horses, which were re-entryed and replaced by the professionals from DGBOP in the transfer to DANS with all the property and all the equipment. I want to tell you that the only trust and security that can be obtained is if the service goes back to the Ministry of Interior and starts working effectively. We have a very difficult year ahead of us. I personally expect from you as DANS duplicates the functions of the Ministry of Interior and fails you to duplicate the functions of DANS, as it will not work for at least another year. DANS doesn't have real meters, it's betting on virtual ones. I would like to call on the other colleagues to know that this year will pass and leave, but in the next challenge Bulgaria will not be less than it has been before. We've got funds, we've got energy, we've got contraband and a budget to run. This can only happen with an effective judicial system and a system in which the SANS will cease to engage in non-military activities and the one for which it is called and the GDBOPP will return to where it has always been and be much more effective than it has been before and will not be scattered from meaningless shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u63	- What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u64	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current Ministry of Interior Act entered into force on 1 June this year. You could say that his life in practice is about five and a half months. Three governments and three interior ministers changed during this period in Bulgaria. The government of Oresharski works with this Law for about two months, three months the office and about a month and now the elected cabinet headed by Boyko Borisov. It can be concluded that this Law has not even been drilled by the current cabinet, but also within these five and a half months. It is logical, then, to ask ourselves why this haste to look at it even before we have adopted the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria? Is the law on the Ministry of Interior the most important law in Bulgaria? Is that the stumbling block we're supposed to be dealing with this month? Well, then it's good to look for the reasons. This is being done stubbornly or do we have a rematched partyation, or is it another purge in the Ministry of Interior and DANS for favouring the Ministry of Interior and the Office of BOP and a final complication of the work at DANS and DATO? I will not speak throughout the bill, but only on this part, which concerns DANS and DATO, where the proposed changes in my opinion have nothing to do with the world practices and even with those features that are characteristic of Bulgaria. It's about counterintelligence and intelligence not being dependent on the police. She shouldn't be leading among them. The very fact that the changes to the DANS and the DATO are made in the Ministry of Interior Act through the transitional and closing provisions and not in the special Law concerning these services shows one attempt to subordinate them to the Ministry of Interior and to the police. We just heard the Home Secretary's speech. Most of it was dedicated to the work of the DANS and not to the Ministry of Interior. There is a power deputy prime minister who has to deal with the DANS and DATO services, and the Interior Minister, of course, has to deal with the work of the police. In the transitional and closing provisions there are several things that are serious. First of all, the argument for balancing the sector management system by returning the President's right to appoint the President of the SANS and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior. We had a well-established practice when the President of the SANS was validated by the Bulgarian Parliament. After all, Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic. There is nothing illogical here, representatives of the various political forces, eight in number, to validate the President of the SANS. The President of the SANS, together with other contenders for this position, had the opportunity to answer questions last year, to express his views on how the SANS should work and then, of course, to receive the support of the Bulgarian Parliament. The transfer of DGBOP back to the Ministry of Interior on the grounds that they are not working well does not correspond with the actual results for the period when BOP is located in the system of SANS. We have 270 operations, of which 38 with partner services. These operations are not a legacy of BOP, which was previously in the Ministry of Interior system, but independent, carried out after they passed into the National Security Agency. The bill also provides for the closure and the Department of Industrial Operations in SANS, which violates the principle that there is no excessive concentration of powers and resources in an institution, to be able to compete in the implementation and of special intelligence resources. A competitive start has been proposed for the appointment of staff at the SANS, which, in my opinion, does not correspond to the functions and character of the Agency. It is hardly necessary when announcing the competition to say that this is a position that will be in the so-called Russian department, or the department that will work on the problems of radical Islam, what are the requirements, what languages should be known. This is information that definitely does not need to be public. For this reason, I consider it inappropriate to start a competition when appointing and starting a job in the SANS system. There are, of course, things that bother in the practice imposed in the last 10 or 15, perhaps 20 years in the selection of employees at the SANS. In my opinion, this is becoming quite subjective, on very vague criteria, but it is not the competition start that will open up and allow for better selection and recruitment of staff in the SANS system. In general, both I and my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria and we will not support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u65	For the first line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Dubov, there are too many things I could say in your speech, but I'm only going to say one moment because it's quite annoying what I've heard: how successful were the shares of the National Security Agency? By the way, I mean, you BSP guys, when it comes to DANS, you gotta shut up. Because, ever since the DANS was created, it's been accompanied by blunders that only you create. It is true that whoever is responsible is hiding somewhere in Brussels, but have shame. With regard to cooperation and common operations between the SANS and our partners. I did my best here to gather as much information as I could in the short time. I've asked the various institutions to provide me with meetings. There is a reference here, which was prepared for a meeting between the Prosecutor General of Bulgaria Mr. Tsatsarov and the Director of Europol Wainwright, and this meeting was held on 4 April 2014. I'm not going to read it all to you, just a few paragraphs. One of them: Mr Wainwright stressed that cooperation with Bulgaria over the past 5 years has made serious progress, with the information exchange increasing twice. Sadly, for the past 9-10 months, please consider this in April 2014. This trend marks a serious decline, especially in three areas: counterfeiting of euros, terrorism and drugs. Europol is ready to provide its assistance to improve cooperation in these areas. The following paragraph: The Director of Europol stressed that he would not want this to be seen as an accusation in relation to problems in the field of information exchange. He knows about the structural changes undertaken and understands that it takes time to start the normal functioning of the system. He pointed out, however, that in terms of counterfeiting of euro currency, where unlike the period 2009 - 2013...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u67	Your cue time is up, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u68	...there are several successful stocks in which printing houses have been broken...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u69	You have the opportunity to make a statement and continue your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u70	...in the last 6-9 months, cooperation has not been good.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u71	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u72	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Atanasov, I said no at all about the work of the National Security Agency, I talked about what happened at the Directorate of Organized Crime in this one-year period, during which he was in the system of the National Security Agency, 270 operations carried out, of which 38 joint. I don't mean the other actions that are being carried out in counterintelligence. In order not to remain undiscovered, however, as we do not all know, we are not all familiar here is Mr. Pinchev, I think that if he does not mind, let him try to bring more information on this issue. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u73	To make a statement there is Mr. Miho Mihov. Mr. Mihov, your group has about 3 minutes to comply. They even tell me it's two minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u74	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am positive about the submitted bill because I believe that it will start the real reform in the Ministry of Interior and, secondly, because we all, during the election campaign, assured our society that we will work for its security. From what I have read and so far listened to, I believe that we are focusing our attention on the bill by turning the interior to the ministry itself and its system. We should apply the law to reverse the movement there is one in both society and nature to the people. If it is said in this bill, and I think we can improve it, that the activities of the Ministry of Interior are directed................................. It cannot be directed; it must be a major activity to protect the freedoms of the people and other activities. If it is said and unwittingly quoted here and there, the system of protection of national security does not limit the trust of the public, but the vital interests that determine the level of national security are neglected. What do I mean, besides direction? Can we counter crime, we will wait for it to take place?! We have to neutralize it, we have to decapitate it, and everything else is already a trust in society, if that's how we set the tasks. And those are vowed words of the formed policemen, I believe. Can we keep public order? On the contrary, we must maintain it, and there is no conservation of the property of the population. Our property is gone, the people are working hard, they don't want to produce, and, after all, there will be no economy. I mean, I think that the law and bill should turn them to society, correct them in the coming days until the second reading. In this way, I think we will fulfill our constitutional and civic obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u75	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, and then Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u76	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! It's nice when the debate goes professionally. Of course, the National Assembly is a political body, it is normal to have political accents and speeches, but we should not focus only on this. I would like to remind my colleagues and those who are a little further away from this topic that in 2007 when the State Agency for National Security was established, the bill was tabled by several MPs from the then ruling triple coalition. In the debates during the adoption of the bill, yes, the question was whether the SANS should have investigative functions or not. At that time the opinion and the law were formed, as it was adopted for the State Agency "National Security" (SANS), had no investigative functions. However, honourable Members, the debate at the time was whether the SANS should have investigative functions for national security crimes. In general, colleagues know that these are crimes under Chapter One of the Penal Code. When we talk that with the change for these four days last year and the stitching of DGBOP to the DANS, the DANS has already started investigating purely criminal crimes. Yes, there is one reference in European countries, if I am not mistaken Poland, Austria, in part, and one or two other countries in Scandinavia, the security services have investigative functions, but they are in the field of national security and not in the field of criminal investigation. Because with the transition of DGBOP and the automatic transfer of police investigative powers, in general, on the prevention and detection of crimes to the National Security Agency, what does it prove to be? "SANS, the Agency that needs to protect national security, all the more so that this bill was adopted last year when the trends in the Middle East and North Africa emerged, the challenges facing Europe and Bulgaria, the SANS, the Agency that needs to protect national security, will investigate human trafficking?! We know what's going on with human trafficking over the years. Will he investigate intellectual property crimes? Does he write on the sweatpants, Adidas, Adibas, or the shorts, or the tank top?! That's one of the intellectual property crimes. Of course, there are others. Will the Agency investigate the national security of Bulgaria, the trafficking of cultural values or gambling?! See what this National Security Agency is loaded with?! And they are about seven such functions, which automatically transfer to the powers of the Agency, and also lead to pre-trial proceedings. At the same time, national security offences under Chapter 1 of the Criminal Code and several other honourable Members are investigated by investigators. This is the paradox of the Agency, which is supposed to protect national security, you stitched her up last year for four days to investigate criminal crimes. That's what we're talking about, police functions! That's the motive from last year. Here, this is a list and another paragraph for the serious security reforms you have carried out. You say: "But how now, let's see! Why are you now returning something that has worked for so many years?........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, the next paragraph, and that concludes the reasons: Another extremely important change is the recovery in a firm way of the powers of the Agency's authorities to carry out an investigation in the full extent of this activity within the meaning of the PPC. Excuse me, fellow Members, in 2007, the law was passed, in 2008 it started functioning DANS. When did your change last year have powers for full PPC investigations to restore them June last year? This speaks of incompetence, of not knowing the laws of those who brought them in, and they were the representatives, the leaders of political parties. What recovery? What have you recovered in 2013, what investigative functions, since from 2008 until 2013. Honourable Members, there is talk here about how, you see, the election of the President of the National Assembly from the National Assembly would raise this is written in your motives from last year and will provide additional guarantees for effective and unsurpassed parliamentary and civil control. At the same time, last year, from this tribune, representatives of the then ruling majority, who I respect and are competent, said: "How will we from Parliament elect the president of one of the authorities, the DATO, and at the same time the parliament will control it and exercise effective control? If I am not mistaken, representatives of the BSP supported it. My fellow Members, I ask you again, let us read, get acquainted with the reality, with what you have spoken, what you have adopted, how the laws have functioned, what motives you have tabled, and I will call on my fellow Members to support the amendments made to the law. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u77	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lazarov, there is indeed an attempt on our part to have a civilized dispute, but we will not understand each other because slowly and slowly you are again walking towards the road devoid of the State Agency. To such a state you brought her to the beginning of your reign. It is easy for you to recall the KTB case, although for him, DANS is not the only responsible institution at all. But somehow you conveniently forget the Sarafovo bombing and several other breaches in national security. It is good to think about it, because one service should not be stripped at the expense of the other. When we talk about the security sector, we need to talk with sufficient concern about the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Vuchkov, and about the State Agency of National Security. Because they're inextricably connected units. And one more thing I would like to add, as I did not have the opportunity to make a personal explanation of the Minister's words. Mr. Vuchkov, we would accept all these reasonable arguments of yours. You've always had an academic argument with us, and that's what I confirm most responsiblely. All this would be more convincing, however, if the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act were made by you after a sufficient functional audit. It was said by Mr. Dubov that the previous minister worked practically two months, the minister of the service three months, and you don't have two more months. What kind of changes...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u79	You're making a line for Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u80	When did you find out the system wasn't working?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u81	You're making a line for Mr. Lazarov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u82	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I do not share your claim that the investigative functions of the State Agency should be dropped because by doing this analysis, you should bear in mind that they are delegated as powers given the function of investigating crimes or to ensure the full cycle of effective countering violations of national security, namely the prevention, detection and investigation of related crimes. That's my cue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u83	The third line is Mr. Popov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Lazarov, you know that a legal rule is always established in the case of already established public relations, that is to say, it regulates already established public relations. This concerns the investigative functions of the SANS. They were created after the Sarafovo bombing. Where were the Megastructures of the Ministry of Interior, the DATO and all the others for whom you are now so happy? You also say that DANS, you see, was investigating copyright violations. However, you know that this is about hundreds of millions that concern national security. You will also see the reports regarding Bulgaria for copyright protection. You said the NSA was investigating, and you minimized her functions, human trafficking. What about when terrorists are being trafficked? You know what happens in the Middle East, you know what happens in Ukraine from there to Bulgaria. Apparently, there's a stream, and this stream doesn't know if there are terrorists in it, if there aren't, what's their number. And proved it only a few years ago, unfortunately, the precedent in Bulgaria with this terrorist act. Let's not create one megastructure at the expense of another agency. There must be a proportionate and balanced distribution of national security protection functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u85	A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u86	Madam President, in the powers of the SANS, which were before you last year for four days of changes, there was a danger to the economic and financial security of the state. I don't want to bother my colleagues again, they can read them in the law. I was talking about the purely criminal crimes, which were from the competence of the BOP, they were transferred to be investigated by the State Agency of National Security. That's what I'm talking about. In Europe, there is no really.. of the inquiries, they were presented by Mr. Pisanchev.. there is no office responsible for national security to investigate criminal crimes, honourable colleagues. Let's talk a little professionally. I mentioned, for a reason, the challenges Bulgaria faces with regard to the Middle East, North Africa and all these events, and we have tasked SANS with investigating criminal crimes. That's what this is about. Let's talk about principles! As far as the Sarafovo case is concerned, there is no country that is 100% guaranteed by such cases. The investigation is conducted by an investigator and by the investigation. But I remember, Mr. Merdjanov, when at a Council for National Security with the President were exported data that this was the action of the military wing of Hezbollah, how loudly you objected then, you disagreed, you said it was a threat to Bulgaria to export this data. The investigation subsequently disproved those yours then purely political, as at the moment, speeches. Shortly thereafter, however, on the website of the political leadership of Hezbollah was there Mr. Stanishev, who had to make a visit. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u87	Now we're going to do 30 minutes. rest, as there are statements made by Mr. Yankov, Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Atanasov. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u88	We're continuing the hearing. Please take your seats. The Quaestors shall invite the honourable Members to take their seats. Before we go any further, one message: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we inform you of a change in the management of the Parliamentary Group. Following a meeting on 9 December 2014, the Parliamentary Group decided: 1. The management of the Parliamentary Group Bulgarian Democratic Center is in the following composition: Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev co-chair; Dr. Krasimira Kovatchka, co-chair; Mr. Kancho Filipov, Vice-President; Mr. Rumen Yonchev, Vice-President and Stefan Kenov, Secretary. Please carry out the necessary actions under the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. There is a copy-extract from the Parliamentary Group meeting held on 9 December 2014. Signatures follow. To speak on behalf of a group has the word Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues of the majority in the Forty-third National Assembly! After a meeting between representatives of the government and trade unions on Sunday, a memorandum was adopted, including a series of measures providing for a general change in the pension model laid down in the reform of the pension system since 2000. We stress that the transition from a compulsory capital element in pension provision to a model allowing the provision of the right to a pension solely through participation in the solidarity pillar is the most significant internal political change in Bulgaria over the past 14 years. Pension reform, the three-stable model and compulsory participation through private capital savings are the result of two-year public debate, tripartite cooperation and political consultations based on long-term demographic and economic forecasts, and continuous coordination with international financial institutions. The direction of the pension reform in Bulgaria has not been questioned either by the social partners or by the main political forces for more than a decade, although the continuing delay of the measures provided for in the reform package has led to severe distortions of the pension model, chronic deficits in the budget of the state social security and wavering confidence in the second pension pillar. After the rapid meeting held in an informal format between some of the government and trade unions of our attention, quick changes to the Social Security Code are presented radically altering the idea laid down in the pension model. Instead of a reasonable evolution of the pension model, we are offered a hasty and reckless withdrawal from the model with unpredictable economic and social consequences. The amendment proposed by a group of MPs to the Social Security Code shall enter into the programme of the forty-third Parliament in violation of all the rules providing for a procedure for a change in the social security legislation. It is not consistent with the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute; it has not been discussed and has not been adopted by the Council of Ministers; it is not consistent with the social partners; it is not accompanied, although with a formal impact assessment. Paradoxically, this change has not entered the Social Committee of the Parliament and we do not know whether it is supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy because it does not have an opinion. Nevertheless, the proposal has also been made in gross violation of the decision-making rules agreed between the majority partners and between the coalition partners in the government. Such a measure is directly contrary to the cabinet's programming declaration and to the election programmes of the political parties supporting it. It is not agreed at the level of the Council of Ministers, nor at the level of leadership of the parliamentary groups of the majority, nor in the Development Council of the Council of Ministers. Colleague importers, with this parliamentary behavior you are destroying the spirit of confidence between the partners in the majority and the spirit of dialogue, compromise and political humility that we are trying to impose on the first day. Here I would like to thank Prime Minister Borisov outside of the text of the declaration for the apologies he gave for yesterday's behaviour of the finance minister. Such forceful methods and solutions with vague argument were characteristic of the previous parliament. It was they who most contributed to the rapid and irreversible failure of the previous majority and the Oresharski cabinet he supported. We do not yet know who Delyan Peevski proposed, but we do know that from the moment he chose the government he proposed it was compromised and his stay in power was detrimental to the state and society. His life was short, too. Today, believe me, without any interference, the citizens of Sofia are gathering at a protest against these measures, namely the way they are proposed and are not discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u90	Protest?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u91	Not against the measures themselves. After a discussion, we can convince anyone. In theory, you can convince me that these measures are correct, but there is no way with such a method of discussing this thing can happen. Today we do not know who or why is proposing changes to the Social Security Code, what are the arguments and political objectives. We have no explanation why there is a hurry, since these measures do not have a direct link to Budget 2015. Colleagues, you cannot hide behind the backs of the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, however wide they may be. If this were an executive's proposal, it would have gone through all the co-ordination procedures and the Social Committee would have been leading, not completely ignored; it would have gone to public discussion; it would have gone through other portfolio committees. The secret way to pass these changes is due precisely to the fact that majority MPs are being used with this trick to insert between first and second reading into another law, so you have all the responsibility for the political consequences of this vote. With this power approach, which you do not know either the arguments or the objectives, you question the majority in the forty-third National Assembly and the stability of the government, which all Bulgarians rely on for their future. Think of the efforts we have made, the compromises we have made to have Bulgaria government and government! And here no one threatens to take the trust down, not us sitting on the right side of the room, but those who give the trust down on the street, they will take it down. And from there on, our government will no longer be stable. Colleagues, we all make mistakes, there are no perfect people. That is why modern democracy provides for parliamentary control over the hasty and dangerous moves of the executive power. You do not represent Minister Goranov here, you represent the right-wing voters in Bulgaria. Your obedience in this case, by virtue of which you bring changes that are not present in your election program, does a bad service to management. If you do not withdraw this proposal, the administration of Mr. Borisov's second cabinet will be doomed to mistrust. It will not be able to succeed in its reform plans without public trust. It will still be better than the BSP, the DPS and the attack, whose votes you rely on to pass these changes, but reforming and different cannot be and cannot lead a better life for the Bulgarian citizens in this way. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. On behalf of the group Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u93	My fellow Members, I am not prepared for such a statement for such a declaration, so I will not be as orderly as Mr. Radan Kanev was. But I take the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group because, at the beginning of his declaration, I heard a statement that does not correspond to the truth and I want to explain why I think so. All this time Mr. Kanev talked about a change in the pension model that we on our knees, between the two readings we do. I want to tell you that there is no change in the pension model. The pension model in Bulgaria includes the NSI, the Pension Fund, as a solidarity fund from which all Bulgarian citizens born before 1959 receive their pensions, plus a third pillar of voluntary pension insurance, which these citizens can do of their own free will. But citizens born after 1959, apart from this solidarity pillar, in which they necessarily contribute part of their contributions, the state legally obliged them 5% of their contributions to a universal private pension fund. That is, the model in which people in Bulgaria retire is different for some born before 59th and others born after 59th. What we're proposing is not a change of pattern. We give only one opportunity to the people born after 1959. To choose the model by which the people born before 59 will retire. That is, they will judge and decide for themselves whether they will benefit from both the first and the second pillar of the pension system, or they will give up the second pillar and will remain in the first one where they are part of the other Bulgarian citizens. This is not a change of model, it is an opportunity for each person to decide for himself what model he wants to be provided for and by which model he wants to receive his pension. In this sense, I strongly disagree with this. It was said that we were representatives of the right-wing voters and that we were making left-wing measures. Pό right from that, pό liberally from giving a person the right to decide for himself what to do with his money and what to do with the way he will retire and get his money for old age, I don't think it's left, but I think it's right policy. Maybe we or some of us who consider themselves right or left, I don't know, but who are against this right choice that we're trying to give people, what do they tell them? We politicians are smarter than you. You are not mature enough to make a decision for yourself, for your retirement, for your destiny. We, as smarter, have decided and continue to decide where your money is going.. 5% in a private pension fund, since 2017. Who is smarter than politicians or every person? And my second question is, who takes the risk of doing this, politicians or every single person? Absolutely the risk is taken by each person, and when someone takes the risk for their fates, they must be free to do so, on the one hand. On the other hand, he must be informed to do so. And I see nothing wrong with this model, which advocates that it is very good, let me convince every single person. Private pension funds have a great resource of both money and specialists who could move and hear something about them, reach out to each of you, tell them what the benefits are and motivate him for this system. And not forcefully, through laws, as it was 14 years ago, to keep making people choose what we, the smart politicians, have decided is the right thing for them. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other statements on behalf of groups?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u95	It's a personal explanation! [[(Comments from GERB: There is no personal explanation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u96	We are continuing with the discussions on the VID of the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Iankov signed up for a speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Mr. Pisanchev, Mr. Kitov! The Ministry of Interior Act was adopted in June 2014, promulgated on 27 June 2014. A number of forms resulting from it are still in a procedure of introduction according to the time limits laid down. This means that at the moment there is no way to give a full assessment and to analyse the extent to which it is comprehensive and creating optimal working conditions for the office. Any changes to this law can now be characterized only as hasty, or more precisely an attempt to adapt the system of the Ministry of Interior to a model restoration of the previous mandate of the cabinet Borisov. This restoration also starts with the paradox that Tsvetan Tsvetanov is an importer of changes in the Ministry of Interior Act and a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. A person against whom there is also a case for violations related to the SRS as Minister of the Interior. What do you want to change the law? In fact, you are violating the logic of a modern model of national security. The return of DGBOP to the Ministry of Interior is not just a mechanical mechanism for transforming one unit from one structure into another. The Ministry of Interior Act created an opportunity in the Republic of Bulgaria to have an adequate tool for protecting national security in the conditions of the new realities. With the merger of DANS and DGBOP, two objectives have been achieved. The first is the State Agency of National Security not only to register processes, but to react quickly and adequately to counteract in the protection of society. Tasks of the type of establishment and neutralization of structures from the network of the Islamic State in Iraq and Levanta can only be solved with such a model! A national agency that has the power to prevent, expose and counteract the attacks against national security! Fighting trans-state criminal structures also requires the potential for rapid, operational action in high-security conditions! Such secrecy cannot be secured by integrated polystructural and inter-agency actions. The second objective for which DGBOP was led by the Ministry of Interior was to no longer use it as a tool to increase the power capacity of the government. It must be a service subject to direct parliamentary control. That is why the head of the SANS should be elected by the National Assembly in a public, transparent procedure and not be appointed by anyone. And this is where the other anachronism comes in the proposed changes. The head of the national agency should be appointed single and the management levels in the Ministry of Interior and DANS should be returned to the competition beginning. This is a method for introducing circumstantial criteria to be manipulated or not reflecting in full the qualities and disadvantages of applicants. An objective assessment of career development in the system of the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency is the overall work and passage of qualification levels of the individual employee. Such an assessment must be drawn up regularly by the personnel service and, together with an opinion of the direct managers, shall be the normal mechanism for taking up a post. And for a seemingly small but substantial change in the law, the way to bear the badges from the police during security of mass events. With this amendment, you are trying to direct public attention to personal responsibility for the behaviour and actions of the employees during their duties. However, the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior is more vertical. In the event of violation of citizens' rights, use of excessive force or any other violation, the consequences shall be for both the regular police officer and his direct managers and professional leadership, including the Minister of Interior. The identification of the regular police officer is only a small part of transparency in the work of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. More important is the identification of what will result from your changes. And she'll be here soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u98	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! On 7 November, we voted on the composition of the current government and I voted against this government. This, under the rules of parliamentary democracy, puts me in the opposition MPs' group. However, I would like to say that in no case do our group and I personally have no intention or desire to vote for anything against it, because, as a spirit, as a concept and as matter, we believe that the proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act are correct and they must be adopted. [[Applause from GERB.]] I would say personally that I trust this minister. I believe because I have known him since 1995 - 1996, and I know that he is an in-depth legalist and that he will apply the Law as written, as his spirit is. Mr. Minister, I'm going to take the liberty of quoting you: I make sure that there will be no disruptions in the Ministry of Interior system. I will follow this promise of yours and I really want this system to work calmly and without any more tremors. In recent years, there have been many and, I would say, unsuccessful exercises for the Ministry of Interior system. As regards the proposed specific legislative changes, I believe that the mandate of the President in this Law is correct. I would say that this was also the case in 1999, when a new Constitutional Law on the Ministry of Interior was adopted, and then, honourable Members, the President had appointment functions not only to the Secretary General of the Ministry, but also to the directors of national services, which I believe was correct. And in this sense I would like to remind some colleagues who may have forgotten that, in fact, Secretary General during the government of the NDSV, then Mr. Boyko Borisov was appointed by President Petar Stoyanov. Subsequently, the Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Mr. Kalin Georgiev was appointed by a decree of President Georgi Parvanov. As far as the four national services so proposed are concerned, I believe that this is correct. There must be a strong, powerful National Police Office, there must be a border police, as a partner service to our partners from the European structures, including a Fire Safety and Protection Service, but I would also like to say that it is important to mark the place of DGBOP, in my opinion, as a police function. This office should be in the Ministry of Interior system, but we must in no case denigrate the work of the current Specialized Directorate of Organized Crime in the National Security Agency. Colleagues, I will just remind you that, in fact, when DGBOP was shut down in the Ministry of Interior system and was transferred to the DANS of a total of 900 people were reassigned around 600 and in fact the composition and these employees are practically the same. Between first and second readings, we will table our proposals for changes and we will hold on to them. What we believe to be right is that there is no structure at the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs to use special intelligence resources. And here I would like to say that we are not just talking about technical operations, but also about the human factor, about the possibility of implementing undercover agents, so we believe that this unit is not in the GDBOP. We will make our legal changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u101	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Since there is little time left for the group, I will shorten in most part my speech. This morning, when I came to work, I opened my mailbox and I found a Christmas card inside. I've got it. I saw a name inside of Borislav Gutsanov. This led me to a very unpleasant memory about four years ago, when this former colleague of ours was the subject of a production of internal media, which, unfortunately, I in the proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act do not see any guarantee that they will be avoided. I sincerely hope that this will not continue in time and that we will not witness such distortions in the work of the Ministry, in its main work, all the more so that the credit of trust that we have given to the Minister and his cabinet is not small. I hope that it will not be exhausted quickly with the proposed amendments to the Law, moreover, that the Ministry is not an importer. It's disturbing that he's being brought in by colleagues. The paces with which this thing is accepted are also not extremely fast. They are extremely fast and disturbing after the New Year we want to vote on it immediately at second reading. With regard to the other bill for the signs, I also have the opinion that it is intended to make the identification of the employees of the Ministry of Interior guarding mass events more secure. However, this appears to be largely unnecessary because the Ministry of Interior Act now provides for employees to be legitimized during the performance of their duties. In their motives, importers find, without it being very clear where they draw this information, that employees show their official cards on request. However, this is not a failure of the Law, but a violation for which responsibility must be borne. How legitimization should be carried out, with what signs should be the subject of a regulation, and the organisation of how this should happen is within the competence of the Minister, so even now the matter is regulated by the Minister's regulation and instructions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For this reason, we would not agree to support this change. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u103	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Mr. Ivanov, you remember from this card something that happened a long time ago. But weren't you an employee of the SIC and you were two hours Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior, as I recall? [[Applause from GERB.]] As for what you are constantly repeating as the point of reference of Tsvetanov's time. Let me tell you something. Manfred Weber says: "For Schengen Bulgaria will have to catch up with what Tsvetan Tsvetanov has achieved. And something else, Mr. Ivanov. There was talk about how bad governance was before the proposals you made. Just one thing I want to say to you: remember Hristo Biserov the brilliant performance of the DANS; remember KTB the brilliant performance of the DANS. These are precisely the nails in the coffin of this state of the DANS, which we consider by this law to be a final strike, because the DANS in this form is in addition to political orders and other than what we have seen this year and several months, there is nothing else that it can bear. Not to mention the way his chair was also elected in his first version in the National Assembly and which provoked the overthrow of your government. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u104	Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I picked up a line provoked by the statement about the police's I.D. codes. That's where they belong, Mr. Ivanov, in the law. We were motivated by the Commission why we are proposing this thing. In addition to purely technical arguments for the fact that police officers do not find it difficult to provide their personalities, not to take personal documents out of their pockets into mass events, which would create chaos and disorder and could lead to the loss of their documents, we gave purely principled arguments. When the police can be identified, it will create calmness in both protesters and in people involved in these events, and they will know that policemen would be less inclined to exceed their rights than they are at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u106	Third line? You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u107	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! I'm surprised how a gentleman who here walks with rattling skeletons from the wardrobe and takes his opinion from another colleague with experience in the caselaw gives advice on who was who and why. I'm surprised why you're making a comment about my professional career, given that I don't see any reason why I had this warrant as Deputy Minister to come to light. Moreover, the current prime minister was my supervisor and I suppose he was highly appreciated for my work. If he's a prime minister now, I see no reason why you shouldn't trust me. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] However, consider from your point of view how you have been and what you have done in the past. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u108	To speak the word has Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, I expected there to be a more serious professional debate. Things have gone wrong, and it's understandable why. In practice, the main arguments I heard from the opposition, mainly from BSP left Bulgaria, consist in defending certain higher professional positions to which comfortable people are appointed. That is not the essence of the bill, ladies and gentlemen! It is understandable your behavior, because you have always worked on the principle of.......................... that is a systematic approach of your party... to have faithful people in nocturnal places, an old tried method in the fight for power, but let us understand the essence of the bill. In the first place, and this is the nail, I would say, of this bill, the transfer of the function of fighting organised crime in its natural place. Now society and the taxpayer must pay a mistake that was not careless. She was intentional. But I want to stop your attention to the fundamental moment associated with this function. An extremely important sign of the effectiveness of the fight against crime, and especially of organised crime, is good coordination between structures. This is an old defect of the Bulgarian security system. The lameness of coordination, but with the removal of the Office for Combating Organized Crime from its natural place, I stress, the Ministry of Interior and Police Structures and its transfer to Counterintelligence this coordination disappeared completely. In practice, the uniform informational arrays for rapid consultation are located in the system of the Ministry of Interior. There are information channels that give signals about various types of crimes. Based on the analysis of the overall picture, an office such as the Office for the Fight against Organized Crime should organise and conduct its operations. The removal of DGBOP has disrupted and hampered coordination. This is the main problem that you do not want to understand. The channels on which various and different information about crimes and crimes in the Ministry of Interior is obtained are many. One of these channels is the uniformed police. The people who are on the field every day and receive the most different information concerning the overall organization of the fight against organised crime, and at one point the removal of this unit and its artificial hanging, that is the right word for the counterintelligence body of the state is nonsense. That is why the absolutely necessary change, as I told you, at the heart of this bill is the return of the main instrument for combating organised crime to the Ministry of Interior, where it is its natural place. We are looking at a bill amending the Ministry of Interior Act and all the time on the left I hear only about DANS. I'll allow myself to tell you again today from this tribune, don't talk about this structure because you have corrupted the good idea. I have always been of the opinion that the counterintelligence body of the state must be removed from the Ministry of Interior, to be created, as happened, of course, a separate structure. Just remember why it was done in 2007? The State Agency for National Security in 2007 was created to solve domestic party issues in BSP in order to be opposed to the then Minister of Interior, who for one reason or another was uncomfortable for you. Subsequently, should I point to the other heavy blunders of the DANS, and it is determined precisely from the moments of your rule, and associated with a name that you do not want to mention now. I mention his name is Stanishev. What did Stanishev do in 2013? It granted the concession to the security sector of the DPS. And that's why you lost power! Do you realize that or not? A few words regarding appointments, because this is what you talk about all the time. I would like to ask the following question: if the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior or the Chairman of the DANS one or two or three months does not go to work, what will happen? There is no mechanism for the release of these senior professional posts in the event of a serious violation of professional discipline or of systematic failure to comply with the duties. These grounds for an exemption with a thin tire a gentleman who is my fellow lawyer, but a while ago I had heard that there was some inclination to dental treatment here, from this tribune, with a thin eraser erased these grounds. There can be no positions in the administration, even senior positions in the administration in Bulgaria, which are not held liable for systematic failure to comply with the duties. That's what we're predicting now. With regard to binding appointing powers. What I am hearing is reasonable that the National Assembly should elect the head of the secret service in the state here at a public competition. Not to mention the fact that it was an imitation. We all saw it happen. In accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers is the body responsible for the fight against crime and the protection of public order. And this body should have the power to take over crime-fighting structures. That's exactly what this bill is doing now. The Council of Ministers will propose the appointment and release of these top positions. The president can't appoint or fire anyone on his own. I was impressed by this public discussion that was held here two days ago. A number of former senior officials of the Ministry of Interior, who led the Office for Combating Organized Crime, who worked in it, firmly stated that the natural place of this office was in the Ministry of Interior, that it was cut off from the natural environment. We need to hear those voices.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u110	Did everyone get that opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u111	I would stress this legal absurdity, which a lecturer in a criminal trial, such as the Minister of Interior, very rightly emphasised the legal absurdity of a sub-legal act to determine a conviction in criminal cases. The lawyers will understand what I'm saying. How can such a thing be?! We have a Code of Criminal Procedure in which the defendant has been set up. I would like to say two words about the fight against corruption. What are the results of this structural change? I read in an analysis that teams were created under the leadership of a DANS prosecutor for investigating corruption in the judiciary. And why did journalists reveal the corruption scheme with the so-called accidental distribution of cases, I ask?! Where's DANS?! Or maybe their job is not to reveal, but to cover up these exact schemes. Finally, I have felt in your speeches that your primary concern is to maintain certain personnel positions. The other day, I received a report about an operation conducted by the Ministry of Interior, an unfortunate operation. I got a background check. The Minister of Interior has ordered a team of the Inspectorate to carry out a detailed inspection of this failure. Inside the reference, it is written that the Commission has invited the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior for a conversation to clarify some details. He stated that he would not meet with any committee because he had given an explanation where he should have. That's what I'm talking about! We cannot expect that there will be efficiency in the fight against crime, since the high professional position in the Ministry of Interior does not respect the orders of the Minister of Interior, who has been elected by the Bulgarian Parliament! Thank you. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov. Claps from the block of GERB and RB. People's representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u112	You don't have time, Mr. Zablyanov. Your group's time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u113	Personal explanation that I recognized myself. [[Laughter at GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u114	I'm sorry. Any other MPs? To speak, Mr. Kasabov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u115	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm taking the floor and I'm going to try to be brief, because so far we're arguing, we're talking about something that understands itself that it's long gone. In fact, when we turn back time, we will understand that this law was created during the Triple Coalition. This law was invented only to create the political Praetorian Guard of BSP, DPS and the parasitizing Party of Attack. When we talk about corruption detection, corruption schemes, let us not forget that corruption, corruption schemes and fraud, all criminal crimes come from the DPS, from the circles... [[DPS lines: ♪Eee! ♪]] ...around them, as well as the BSP and their supporting small parties. That is precisely why the law has been changed because it was made with one single goal to protect the individual oligarchs who serve these parties, oligarchs, which were created in the years by these parties, so that they can continue the thefts. And now we have seen the financial situation of Bulgaria. Stealing to theft! They tried to make this homunculus to convince us that if you see it, we'll protect rights, freedoms in every way, and I don't know what else. What rights? The rights of thieves that we've spent 20 years looking at from an anti-constitutional party?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u116	What about Scat?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u117	Are we protecting these rights? So things have to come together! The President of the National Assembly cannot here at the very beginning, when the National Assembly is being established, come out and answer the simple question inadequately. You can't sleep on KTB! You can't not know what's going on in energy! We're talking about a huge drain of the state. And here, at this point, they get up and start talking to me about rights, about freedoms, about how the law would somehow break... What rights, I ask? Thieves? The cheaters?! What if this DANS had done its job as you have created it, there would have been several MPs by now, if not in prison, then investigative by DPS and BSP. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB and DPS.]] That's what he had to do. However, DANS, as you can see, is the convenient bandage that must cover up the smelly miasms that come out of the handicapped body of this triple coalition, which continues to poison the lives of the Bulgarians. [[Laughter in the bloc of BSP LB, applause from GERB, RB and PF.]] That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u118	- What's the line? Procedure in the manner of holding Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u119	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to express my attitude in the manner of conduct, as the one who has just spoken from this tribune, who has spilled a bunch of lies and qualifications, including the crime of every Bulgarian citizen, [[GERB lines]] and not only the Bulgarian citizens, including the MPs, are obliged, if we have such facts, to present them to the competent authorities. In this regard, Madam President, MPs who lie and make accusations from this tribune, it would be appropriate to make a remark to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u120	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. At that very moment, an opposition representative in the towers gives a tribune and I quote to you what it says: The Constitution guarantees the freedom of the people's representative from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u121	Lying and blaspheming?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u122	I don't have a device to measure lies with. Are there any other MPs? [[People's representative wants the floor.]] There's no personal explanation, you talked about procedure. Are there any speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Whenever the issue of security is discussed, it always goes on to politicize everything spoken of by this tribune. This is quite understandable, because it is the most political body of the National Assembly. However, when considering legislative changes, I think that we should always stick to the specific facts of the periods when a parliamentary majority has had the opportunity to govern with the respective ministers and with the respective prime minister. I would recall that the reforms made during the period for which the representatives of the BSP most alarmed by this tribune, the period in which the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism was introduced, with our country's accession to the European Union in 2007, had annual reports coming out of the country's progress and whether we cover this deficit in areas such as the fight against organised crime, corruption and the judiciary. I can assure you that the political will, which was demonstrated by the GERB government in 2009-2013 and was covered with real results, received recognition not in the SANS report with their objections to the so-made proposals for amendments to the Law. I would say that we should always take into account the institutions that actually give an objective assessment of the state of the sector in Bulgaria. It is good that a year and a half after the management of the triple coalition and the changes that have been made, we can now make a comparison and conclusions on whether it was right or wrong. I would like to come into what we have done with the changes from 2009 to 2013 and to say the concrete results that have been achieved. I would like to inform the MPs from BSP and, in particular, MPs who spoke, whether they were in employment with the current Prime Minister of Bulgaria. I can strongly say that when he was appointed and had a relationship with the Council of Ministers this MP, a former member of the SEC, was real employer of Plamen Oresharski. The current prime minister cannot be an employer because he has never been in these structures and has never been in such employment as you have been in. What is extremely important to know is that when we started reforms, we had a very clear vision of achieving this integrity, which would enable greater efficiency. I would remind you that at the beginning of our term of office, let us never forget what Sergey Stanishev was unable to cope with at the time the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, of course supported by the parliamentary groups of those who gave a mandate to Sergey Stanishev to be prime minister. Have you forgotten the kidnappings, ladies and gentlemen?! Did you know that this was the biggest problem for Bulgaria and the biggest problem for investors who wanted to come to Bulgaria to invest. They just didn't come, the ones who came were gone. I would also like to remind you of the changes made to the PPC from May 2010. With a comprehensive approach to the work and activities of the Ministry of Interior, together with the SANS and the prosecution, we have been able to increase the possibility of more police officers having dominance functions. And since 2000. At the end of GERB's term of office they became 8000. I do not know if the numbers matter to you, however, I think that the statistics and the results of the prosecution should have, I will tell you what the data from what we have done since May 2010. We wanted to have efficiency in the fight against crime, not to have a close-down of certain cases and to have a deadline. I will set an example for 2010: the completed proceedings outside the legal deadline by 2010 were 4200. In 2012, based on the reforms we made and the changes in legislation, by 2012, they were 233. Pre-trial proceedings returned by the prosecutor in 2010 were 20 239 and 2012 5120. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the real numbers. We tried to find out what was effective last year, unfortunately, it turned out that such statistics could not be provided to us. I would also like to stress very carefully the stability that the Security sector must have, because these reforms lead to a rematchist approach which you showed very skillfully when you came to power in 2013. When we talk about appointments and dismissals, I will only remind you of one thing: I relied on the built capacity in the security system, which was built by all my predecessors with the ability to appoint and reassign them to executive positions. I will give for example the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior Pavlin Dimitrov, who became Deputy Minister of Interior in the cabinet Borisov. Kalin Georgiev, who was also the director of the Directorate General of the Criminal Police Department, became the Secretary-General. Kalin Georgiev's deputy, Angel Antonov, became director of the police, and Stanimir Florov from April 2009 under the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, Mihail Mikov, due to the extremely good results and the high assessment he had of the Euro-Atlantic partners, was appointed to the position which I found and continued to carry out his duties when we made legislative changes to the Ministry of Interior Act. Since you are always talking about some suggestion, I will quote again figures so that it can actually become clear to those who are hesitant in the parliamentary groups of the DPS and the BSP for whom they will vote. - 2010 released under art. 226-245 of the Ministry of Interior Act, para. 1, t. 13 sq. 256 employees; - 2011 were 233 employees; - 2012 they were 122. Just to give you an example of the first six months in the successful term of the three Coalition BSP "DPS" and "Attack." Do you know how many there were in 2014? "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One hundred and eighty-one!! Dear colleagues, let us be objective! It's only for six months. Perhaps by racing away from power, you had to clear everything so that you could do what you did in twelve to five before the parliamentary elections were held. I'll give you a comparison that in those three years I've been quoting the 2010, 2011 and 2012 total 611. You take your own account of what I just said. I also want to say that when a security system is being managed, there are many challenges and I have to deal with the conditions of a financial deficit. However, when you manage a system irresponsiblely, you introduce it into a huge deficit at the end of your term and bequeath a heavy inheritance to the one who is now ruling. I sincerely sympathize with Minister Vuchkov because, given that in this successful mandate of yours you have spoken of, I can tell you that the deficit in the Ministry of Interior, at least from the data that was publicly exported by the Minister, is 210 million. lv. If there wasn't this update that we made three weeks ago, I have to tell you that the Ministry of Interior would be bankrupt today, as you did with the state and you were able to bankrupt it with what was said to have been paid 2 billion last Friday. 600 million. lv. to all those depositors that had to be guaranteed their deposits. However, what I would like to give you as a comparison, because we always have to talk figures in 2011 the deficit in the budget of the Ministry of Interior was 13 million at a limit that can be allowed under the State Budget Act, about 30 million. This deficit 2012 was 7 million at the end of the calendar year and 2013 was 12.5 million and now, 2014, the deficit had reached 210 million. Honourable colleagues, which model is the better model of the Tsvetanov model or the model with which you have restored crime and you will be in its service? [[Applause from GERB.]] In confirmation of these words, I will read some paragraphs of the European Commission reports, because these are still the objective reports and reports of the State Department.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u124	It's selective, isn't it? You're gonna read 'em by choice?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u125	2011 Since the Commission's last annual report so far, Bulgaria has continued to reform the police. A restructuring of the competent police departments has been carried out, which has led to the integration of operational and investigative police activities and to a significant increase in the number of investigators. The 2012 report, which summarized the period of time, can tell you that the assessment that was given there, which you have all been familiar with, the anti-organised crime issues increased in 2010. Let me just remind you that the GERB government was not at the service of organised crime. Others were at the service of organized crime and there are many data and figures that anyone can get acquainted with. However, I would like to remind you that when the police took a more active role and a number of long overdue procedural and institutional reforms were carried out, these efforts led to a more solid institutional structure and better procedures and gained trust in Bulgaria in the law enforcement and law enforcement authorities of the country and other Member States of the European Union. What happened in the State Department report is the drug report that comes out annually. I'm just gonna say what the score is on the last one, because I think that 2010 and 2011 and 2012 you must have read them. I will read from 2013, which reflects the activity in 2012: The Ministry of Interior is actively countering drug trafficking through operations and investigations of DGBOP. DGBOP has led or assisted several significant investigations into cocaine, heroin and other drugs, including joint operations with the Spanish authorities 2012/ I'm just going to remind you because here were also quoted the SANS Report on the opinion they gave. I will only give for 2012 to see the effectiveness of the BOP what it was and what it is today when it is in the DANS. In February 2012, the announced operation, jointly between DGBOP, Europol, Norway and the Czech Republic, is 1 to 800 kg of cocaine. What happened July 2012 16 t hashish on the territory of Bulgaria, intended for Belgium and the Netherlands. May 2012 3 tons of cocaine on a Bulgarian ship with crew in Spain. Don't miss the operation "Cocaine Kings" which gave real legitimization to Bulgaria that it has the will to fight organized crime. The report by the European Commission of 2014, this is now the assessment of your activity and your successful policy that they have spoken about here today, and you are sabotaging the possible adoption of these legislative changes that will enable greater stability. In the January 2014 report of the European Commission: The use of specialized police units for organised crime at DGBOC to the security services of SANS has caused some disturbance in the functioning of the services in question. It is therefore important to ensure that these consequences are only temporary. The way in which the decision was taken is more important without any consultation or discussion. That's what you did when you were in power. I will only recall what the Chairman of the Internal Commission started with. I thank him for providing me with a copy of what you sent from the interior ministry, because I believe these are the real assessments of the institutions, not those to which you can refer and make suggestions. Mr. Rob Wainwright, this is information from April 2014, we accept that it has been working and functioning for nearly a year now, for which you say it is the best Unfortunately, in the past 9-10 months, this trend has been seriously declining, especially in three areas: counterfeiting of euros, terrorism and drugs. Europol is ready to provide its assistance to improve cooperation in these areas. The Director of Europol stressed that he would not want this to be seen as an accusation. He knows about the structural changes undertaken and understands that it takes time to start the normal functioning of the system. Point out that in terms of counterfeiting of euro, where unlike the period 2009 There are several successful specialised European investigations with the participation of Europol and........................................................................................ We also have very good results with regard to drugs, and the information that is being given at present is insignificant or does not lead to serious investigations. In the State Department's report on trafficking in human beings, I suppose that each one of you, when I ruled, had the opportunity to read and see it, I will quote again what it says, for nearly a year now, when this system must bear fruit. I can tell you the following: in June 2013, the government transferred the Organized Crime Task Force from the Ministry of Interior to the State Agency of National Security (DANS) and began structural changes in the Prosecutor's Office, in the organization detained human trafficking investigations for several months in 2013, as observers noted that trafficking cases were no longer monitored by prosecutors with experience in this area. During the reported period, the government showed, notice, inadequate conditions for combating complicity in trafficking by civil servants. In 2013, the government of Plamen Oresharski did not launch any investigations for police officers for trafficking and trafficking complicity. In comparison, in 2012, the government investigated five police officers, 2011. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "Twelfth. " - 12 / 1 A total of 24 to 0 for what you did. And, of course, I want to share some things that are also related to the purely political aspect. Let's not forget how all this happened around your so-called positioning for the security system assessment. You made it very clear and it was said in an interview of Kolyo Paramov just a few days ago, where they said that the script, which was organized for a black PR in BSP, is about the Satanization of Tsvetanov and pouch against Borisov in 2013. I can only tell you this: when we have made these reforms in the security system, we have always had a constructive dialogue with the European Commission and we have had discussions. If we had your approach, we would have done it in four days, and it would have ended everything in the Temporary Commission. But we do not want to have such an approach in the security sector, because today we know when Minister Vuchkov is in this position that after a time when there are new elections, a new configuration of political forces' distribution, there should be forecastability and stability. Therefore, my request to you is: support this bill! The very fact that Mr. Mihail Mikov did not speak from this tribune as former Minister of Interior and is not here today in this room of this vote means one thing: he has reservations about the position of your parliamentary group [[Applause from GERB]] . And I am convinced that, as Mr. Haytov, who was part of the leadership of the Ministry of Interior in 1997-2001, came out and said his principled position, we may have political differences, we may argue politically, but when we talk about legislation relating to the security sector, we just need to be united and principled. I just want to tell you something that I think all these employees who may be watching this debate deserve: we are debtors to the professionals and those employees who gave their lives and gave their time to work for Bulgaria, but these employees simply tolerate some politicians who adopt legislation in the service of organised crime. I think this needs to be stopped. I am convinced that with the adoption of the Law in this way and, of course, the remarks and proposals between first and second readings, which will be refined, we will actually be able to develop a regulation that will guarantee the security sector with a calmness, a prediction. I believe that we should once and for all forget about this opposition purely political when we enter into such debates, because the security system is not political. She's nationally responsible. You know what the challenges to the security system are right now, the dynamics we have today and in the region we are in. I believe that we all need to unite around one to support these reforms. I guarantee you that what I have as an opinion and as an assessment of the current leadership of the Ministry of Interior, they will be able to apply all this only because of the interest of the state, but not guided by the interest that you defended until 2009 and, of course, the period in which you had the opportunity to manage. I would like to thank all professionals in the system of the Ministry of Interior, DANS and all other services because they deserve to be evaluated for their professional qualities. We ask ourselves whether information from the senior management of these institutions, which I quoted just now, has been concealed? That is why we must be united and support legislative changes. I would also like to thank all those who were humiliated were expelled from the Ministry of Interior system. I would like to apologize from this parliamentary tribune for all these 1181 employees who have been fired at the last minute for the last six months by the so-called successful minister and the reform that you have carried out. It has already been perceived as "Yovchev-Biserov." Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u126	- What's the line? I won't. There are two other MPs who have signed up for a speech. In the order of their request, Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Karadayi. Before that someone recognized themselves, please, Mr. Ivanov. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u127	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Since the instrument you were talking about is absent today and there is no way to throw away the harmful influences in this House, I was under the impression that nothing new has been learned and nothing old has been forgotten. It is nice to have the energy here in this room that some colleagues use to build protection in other places where criminal proceedings are conducted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u128	Your personal explanation is about employers, Mr. Ivanov. That's why I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u129	Since the subject of my presence and the current prime minister's presence in certain structures is quite controversial, I suggest that it should not be discussed anymore because it is not useful for anyone.. neither for me nor for the prime minister. There may be others insulted in this case. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I don't understand it as a suggestion for something to promote me to the talkers. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause at BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u130	Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u131	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Today, here in this Chamber, some MPs want to learn the truth that they quickly forgot. In fact, let's start on chronology to remind you of this truth and not forget it, this is perhaps an appeal to you, Mr. Minister, because the change of the Law that we are discussing today began with an infernal act on the appointment of the person Who for Chairman of the DANS. It seems that the colleagues on the left here forgot that it was this act that unleashed the discontent of the Bulgarian people, which had not happened since January 1997. These same colleagues forgot that their government turned the Ministry of Interior into a structure which practically did not work during these months. I will remind you of what was happening right here, to this National Assembly. In June 2013, Mr. Minister, the leader of the Ataka (Ataka) is holding a journalist and abusing him with the lines: he apologizes! However, there was an attempt by a Bulgarian policeman to help the journalist and this Bulgarian policeman was rudely pushed by the same leader of the attack! The uniform was humiliated, the institution of the Ministry of Interior was humiliated. Did anyone understand the consequences of this criminal act of this self-forgotten leader of the attack? No. Nobody understood. And I, by the way, have a request to you today, Mr. Minister, to check how the honor of this Bulgarian policeman is protected, as this has been broadcast for weeks on all Bulgarian media. It's a publicly known fact. But let's move on to the truth. The same self-forgotten leader of the attack, notice, forms spy commands. These Spitz commands carried out civil arrests and outlawed the streets of Sofia. The Ministry of Interior didn't exist. He wasn't there. These Spitz commands continued beyond the city of Sofia. On the 5th and 6th of July 2013, these commands blocked the streets in the city of Burgas, as well as the offices of SKAT TV. They came into the offices of SKAT TV and to questions asked by journalists to the police: "What are you doing, why are you not taking measures?" That's the truth! That's the truth: the Ministry of Interior was missing while you were in charge! You have given an opportunity to a self-forgotten political leader in his capacity, notice, to a MP to indulge and abuse peaceful Bulgarian citizens, something that has not happened in the new history of Bulgarian democracy. Is this the police's job to protect a perpetrator of disorderly conduct?! Dear Minister, you have another more difficult task today. This is your task to apply with all force para. Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, 3 of the Ministry of Interior Act, namely to have at last increased civil control over the activities of the Ministry of Interior. You must also deal with a humiliating fact today that undermines the prestige of the Ministry of Interior, and this is the militia in the Ministry of Interior. We have to face it, because this is important for the public to have confidence in this institution. In fact, it is high time for a minister to put all the political will with which the public understands that the Ministry of Interior is not a repressive body that serves someone's political interests to crush. The Ministry of Interior is an institution which is socially useful and serves to help society. I can list you dozens of examples, which have been imposed by this practice in recent years, how the Ministry of Interior has grown with the local authorities in certain cities. This is the case in Burgas, this is the case in Karnobat, in Pomorie, these are the cases in many Bulgarian cities, where the practically local mayor, protected by the respective political power, manages the structures of the Ministry of Interior. Today we must say these things clearly and aloud. I would advise my colleague Tsvetan Tsvetanov to be a little more moderate, because we have not forgotten, dear Mr. Tsvetanov, the date of 18 July 2012. The Burgas and the Bulgarian society more sides in the ears exploded the bomb that took six lives. This was the first time we realized that Bulgaria was not prepared to counter terrorist acts, most probably today we have no reason to believe that we are very prepared. We then understood that the Directorate for Coordination and Analysis of Information does not know and there is no information about what people are crossing the external border of the European Union, namely between the border of Bulgaria and Turkey. [[Noise and lines.]] It is most interesting that official reference has been received from this directorate, which I have had that since 2007 they have not had accurate information about the flow of people. I can give it to you to read. So these are basic things that need to be worked on very seriously. I would advise something else today, dear Minister, since we need to talk... [[Sighs: "Search, weather, weather!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u132	I'll ask for a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u133	The time is extended. We're running out of time, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u134	I'm graduating. Since very few of the people know that the Ministry of Interior's employees are actually working mainly on instructions drawn up by the Ministry of Interior, I would ask you to check these instructions carefully, especially when it comes to handling personal data by the Ministry of Interior officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u135	Thank you. Mr. Karadaye's last statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I had no intention of expressing myself for the simple reason that Mr Hamid, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, made a statement on the specific subject, namely the first reading of the Bill amending the Act on Home Affairs. However, on the basis of the debate that subsequently took place, there is no way and we cannot fail to express our attitude, namely those shootings that took place in the Chamber outside the topic, these comparisons of the different models, whether it will be the model of Tsvetanov, whether it will be the model of Yovchev, Petkov, Mikov or all ministers, for what the security services used, do not believe that they lead to an increase in authority, the level of institutions, the police and the security services, nor do they contribute to improving the framework environment, the rules, the laws under which these institutions will operate. From this point of view, we cannot agree with this kind of debate. Moreover, we believe that it is not right for DANS, DGBOP, technical operations to be used to solve internal party relations, inter-party relations...............................whatever examples have been given, business relations that we know them from time to time and ultimately get to the point where we read daily in the media about how relations................... This is not right and this type of debate from our point of view is not beneficial. One more thing. There is a lot of talk about the competition beginning and the production growth in the system, but our exhibition, what we said, including today in this hall, is not about the competition beginning. The competition for entry into the system and the current law has it. It is about having objective or subjective criteria for personnel growth when people have already entered the system after a competition. From this point of view, our position is clear: we think that if we can all build as much objective criteria together as possible and exclude subjective factors from this competition start that we see in time, it will be a better model than what we wear in some beautiful words such as a competitive start, but in time, it is the result of excluding certain people from the services and from the security systems. In this regard, most likely, Mr. Minister, today, tomorrow, I will make an inquiry on a specific question: what is the representation of minorities in the police as police officers, in the police management and of what personnel are they? With these considerations, we will not support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u137	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Karadayi, somehow naturally you, as your coalition partners from BSP, have entered into the topic of personnel growth in the Ministry of Interior. You are very interested in this topic, but since it is a reply and the time is short, you have talked about having objective criteria for employees to be raised in the hierarchy. I would like to ask: what were the objective criteria on which the last week before the Oresharski government fell were appointed directors in Kardzhali, Haskovo and all other district directorates, where you were interested in the elections? What objective criteria were they assigned to? [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Or the names were downloaded by your headquarters at Stamboliyski and under this quick mechanism which was arranged, of course, eliminated the competition start, were appointed the comfortable people to close their eyes on the election appointments. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u139	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u140	Second line? It's a hole, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Atanasov, this is why we are talking about the criteria in time who should somewhere enter and grow without personalizing, because for the last 25 years the DPS has obviously been supporting the growth of many people in our country. [[Noise and lines in PF.]] From that point of view, that was my point of view. Let's all make objective criteria together, because you understand me exactly and correctly. It is not about the recent months of appointment, but about excluding certain groups, certain ethnicities in the country from the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u142	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u143	I will ask for this reference and, most likely, in the Commission, we will comment on it and analyse it. Thank you. Mr. Iankov, you didn't interrupt me, you spoke.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u144	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debates are closed. We move on to a vote in the order of the two bills being tabled. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 454-01-34, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 31 October 2014. Vote 186 MPs: 120 against 56, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 454-01-39, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014. Vote 185 MPs: 128 against 56, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and cheering to BSP LB: "Bravo to BSP! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u145	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u146	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u147	Dear Madam President, I propose a procedure for extending the time until the end of this paragraph. 2 on the agenda.. Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, first vote; e.g. 3 "Project for amendment of the Property Act, second vote; etc. 5 "Project to amend the Special Intelligence Funds Act, first vote; 6 "A selection of permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international organizations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u148	Thank you. Colleagues, this is necessary, as from tomorrow we start with fixed as point one, second and third, respectively the three budgets for 2015. Please support this proposal. Voting mode. Vote 151 MPs: 102, against 29, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. According to yesterday's weekly programme, item two is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR SPECIAL RECOGNITION. The importer is Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. Please, the rapporteurs, for a summary of the reports, we are extremely worried about time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u149	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Means and the Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications under the Draft Law amending the Law on Special Intelligence, No 454-01-63, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs of This Decision shall enter into force The Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act at its meeting held on 16 December 2014 examined the Draft Law amending the Special Intelligence Act, No 454-01-63, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Tsvetan Kitov, Chairman of the State Agency, Nadezhda Genova, Head of the Department of the Department of State Expenditure at the Ministry of Finance, Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor General at the VCP, Rositsa Krastanova, Director of the Security Directorate at the Administration of the Prosecutor General, and Branimira Borisova, Secretary of the Prosecutor General. During the debates during the discussion of the Draft Law amending the Law on Special Intelligence means, facts about the established provision of art. 20a of the Special Intelligence Means Act, which provides for the conditions and arrangements for applying the principle of financial commitment under art. 1, para. 3, as well as financial relations between applicants and authorities, to be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers and to be implemented from 1 January 2014. The entry into force of this principle has been postponed and the deadline has been extended until 1 January 2015. However, the delay taken by the State Agency for Technical Operations in this year to draw up the relevant regulations implementing the provisions of the law has not resulted in a result. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Finance expressed support for the bill amending the Special Intelligence Means Act. Following the end of the debates in the vote by 8 votes, the Commission approved the proposed Law amending the Special Intelligence Funds Act. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Special Intelligence Act, No 454-01-63, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 12 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u150	On behalf of the importers, would anyone like to take a stand? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u151	I'll be very brief. And in the report, I mentioned the financial commitment rate was adopted last year by the number 70 of the State Gazette, which envisaged such commitment to the users of special intelligence resources. It was given a time limit by the end of 2013 to draw up such a regulatory act by the Council of Ministers. It wasn't drawn. At the end of last year, we voted for an extension of the deadline and the entry into force of this principle on 1 January 2015, but such an act has not been drawn up
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u152	Thank you. The debate is open. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the debate? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u153	Honourable Members, Madam President! As has become clear from the report of the special parliamentary committee, we will adopt a bill that will remove a principle relating to the application of special intelligence resources... the principle of financial commitment or, as stated in the current law, the one that will benefit from special intelligence means, to declare them in advance and to pay them in advance. This principle has been welcomed in recent years by all political forces, starting from the distant 2011 after the scandal was burned by the Bulgarian Parliament hosted a round table with the participation of the then Minister of Interior Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, signposts from GERB by parliamentary and extra-parliamentary political parties, national security experts who said that the most stable means of abuse of special intelligence is their financial commitment. This principle was not introduced into a law during the management of GERB. One of the things that did the previous power in the sector was its introduction, namely in the case of requested special intelligence funds, the applicant to pay the SRS in advance. In addition, despite GERB's aggressive position as a parliamentary opposition in the previous National Assembly, this was also welcomed by its parliamentary group. As a result of insufficiently well done work in the security authorities during our management, I will say so at the end of last year the implementation of the principle was postponed by one year, and in my opinion, we were rightly attacked, including in the plenary room, by GERB. I've made statements from this debate. I will not concern you with the speeches of all Members of Parliament, some of which are currently in plenary. I will draw attention to the speech of the Interior Minister Mr. Vuchkov, who was then a Member of Parliament from GERB, and whom I quote verbatim from the Parliamentary Stenogram on 13 December. 2013 He says literally the following: "I pay attention to you: the refusal of this principle of financial commitment when using the SRS, which was to enter into force from 1 January 2014, fully discredits the reform of the security sector and, in particular, on the topic of................................................................................................................................................ In my opinion, this principle of financial commitment is even more important than the establishment of a Bureau of Control of Special Intelligence. And below: The principle of financial commitment from 1 January 2014 is in principle a reasonable solution. That is the spirit of the other MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u154	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u155	A quote from Mr. Veselin Vuchkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u156	Don't talk about the others!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u157	Please, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u158	I give you the parliamentary transcript. For convenience, I can give it to you on paper. And you have it. Please read Mr. Vuchkov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u159	Don't talk about the others!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u160	Mr. Vuchkov says something else. According to him, when discussing such a topic and commitments of the security services, it is good, again I quote: a responsible official from the Council of Ministers is present. The speaker asks him, "Who do you have in mind?" He says: "This is the AGE and it is reasonable to be the prime minister or the deputy prime minister. " Such is the request of the current Interior Minister Vuchkov for participation in such an important discussion of a government representative who is responsible for the sector. Mr. Vuchkov was just in plenary. In his presence, the extension of the plenary day was voted. He is certainly aware that the amendments to the SRS Act are currently under discussion. The question arises as to why he, who was so active a year ago to participate in this debate, is now quite conveniently using the most acceptable word.! I also expect a response from the MPs who are committed to the legislative settlement of this important area, such as the sphere of national security, to state from the parliamentary tribune what their opinion on the abolition of the principle of financial commitment in the use of special intelligence means is. I ask: Watching parliamentary debates over the past more than five years and the consensus that has always existed, and the active role of GERB and the Reformist bloc, as extra-parliamentary parties in parliamentary discussions, we will draw out stenograms and hence: what made you now, when you are ruling, change your position?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u161	Oh, no, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u162	I think that's fair. It is clear that special intelligence in Bulgaria is being abused. It is clear that one, albeit difficult, has been found to implement, a means of controlling the SRS' financial commitment; quite fairly, the government broadcast with our mandate has been attacked that it has not done enough work to draw up financial estimates to secure these funds; and now, at the moment you manage, I would agree that, for the little time that the government manages, it has not been able to draw up the relevant financial estimates; I would support the request for delaying the introduction of this principle, but its cancellation, i.e. by a financial non-controlled use of the SRS, I apologise, with this I do not agree! Therefore, regardless of any agreements reached in the parliamentary committees in question, I will vote against it, because right now my phone has such a microphone that it is impossible for the opposite side to hear me. If, as experts say, they will listen to me from more than two places, I insist they pay for it. Otherwise, we as taxpayers pay huge budgets to the various structures that use the SRS without them giving any account of how they spend our money to listen to us! I'm sorry, that's crossing the line! [[Noise and lines from GERB and RB.]] I expect a clear position what will be the effect of removing this principle? In what way do you intend to compensate for the cancelled control over the use of the SRS? It is clear that in the absence of a principle of rotation in the parliamentary committee, which will monitor the SRS, effective parliamentary control will not take place. [[Relations from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Then at least have control over the budget! I am ready to take criticism from the government broadcast in our mandate that it has not done its work on shaping estimates and procedures for the implementation of this principle; I am ready to support and I will make a proposal between first and second reading to postpone its implementation; but excuse me, the replacement of this principle is a little excessive! I want those who listen to us to pay for it! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u163	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? To speak, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u164	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, obviously some colleagues, except from wieners, healthcare, energy, cheese, yogurt, electoral legislation, understand special means of intelligence. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'll be very brief. In the specialized committee we heard once representatives of the DATO, during the second meeting were representatives of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and colleagues convinced that what was proposed last year by Mr. Hristo Biserov is not going to happen. Unfortunately, it was proposed. It's been a year and a half. There's no way this financial commitment's gonna happen. The professionals are convinced and we've come to that conclusion. But those who know about wieners obviously also know about SRS. Besides, honest lies have been told here. Never at round tables during discussions on the subject of the Special Intelligence Act, there has never been a consensus anywhere. The question of financial commitment has not even been mentioned. This was proposed last year in June by Mr. Hristo Biserov and this is what happens when the laws are written on the knee. The Stenograms we have, too. I do not want to bore my colleagues and read what my statements were and Mr. Philip Popov and other colleagues who really participate in these committees. We never said we had such a consensus. Yeah, that would be nice, but technically, it's not gonna happen. A year and a half! A year and a half couldn't make that valuation. And this principle, honourable Members, has been clearly stated by the President of the DATO: payment for the collection of evidence does not apply in any Member State of the European Union. Let's make it clear to the wiener guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u165	- What's the line? The line, Mrs. Manolova. [[GRUNTING BY GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u166	My fellow Members, Madam President, according to the new Parliamentary Rules, insults to a minister should be sanctioned. That's what the rules said. Excuse me, I was quoting a statement from Minister Vuchkov and I will repeat it once again from the parliamentary tribune. [[GERB lines.]] Minister Vukkov in plenary stated in December 13th 2013 that the refusal of the principle of financial commitment in the implementation of the SRS is fully discrediting the reform of the Security Sector and, in particular, on the subject of special intelligence funds. It is more important than the establishment of the Bureau for Control of the SRS. You can read his entire statement further. So I don't know who you mean by swearing about cheese, wieners, health care. I very much hope that you have been mistaken and have not insulted your own minister in this way, because the statement about the importance of the principle of financial commitment is his "M Minister Veselin Vuchkov's" from the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u167	Second line? A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u168	Madam President, I would like to make it clear to all my colleagues here that this principle will come into force. I understand that Mrs. Manolova is proposing between first and second readings, or she will make such an offer not to adopt the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u169	It's been explicitly stated.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u170	It was explicit. This means that today this law will not be able to view it in two readings, according to art. 77, para. 2. But this means that from 1 January all special intelligence means that will be used apply, as this principle will not be respected, since no price has been prepared will be contrary to the law. Carry your political responsibility, honourable Members, who understand everything else, including special intelligence means.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u171	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on Special Intelligence, No 454-01-63, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. Please vote. Vote 100 MPs: 81, against 5, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the next point, and it's the one that's extremely included in our program today: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. A report for first and second votes has been submitted. Here you are, Mr. Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, please excuse the urgent introduction of this bill, but it relates to deadlines that must be respected. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 454-01-61, submitted by Dimitar Boychev Petrov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2014. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 17 December 2014, discussing a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 454-01-61, submitted by Dimitar Boychev Petrov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2014. In the work of the committee took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva Minister, Mr. Vasil Grudev Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Magdalena Dakova Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Services and the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency Ms. Margarita Petkova Vice-President and Mrs. Maria Balcheva Chief Legal Consult. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Rumen Zhelev. The Law proposes an extension by one year of the registration period as sole traders or legal entities within the meaning of the Commercial Law, to persons engaged in business fishing, breeding and farming activities of fish and other aquatic organisms, activity as registered buyers or first sale centre. Accordingly, one year shall be extended and the period within which authorisations granted and registrations made for commercial fishing of persons not registered are suspended. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the bill. All MPs agreed that the extension of the registration period was urgent and should be supported, given the socio-economic situation in the country and the wide range of subjects, mainly with small fishing boats, for which this obligation constitutes a serious financial and administrative burden. Furthermore, it was recalled that a new Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture is to be prepared to reflect the new European requirements with regard to the registration obligation, which distinguishes between large-scale and coastal small-scale fishing. In conclusion, and after the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Food unanimously with 18 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 454-01-61, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u173	Thank you. On behalf of the applicant, you will not take any part. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? I won't. Debates closed. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 454-01-61, submitted by Dimitar Boychev and a group of MPs, unanimously supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to offer your attention to the report on the Second Reading Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u175	Before that, we must vote on the voting procedure in a single sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u176	Proposal for a vote at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u177	I shall put to the vote the procedural motion for a vote at first and second reading in a plenary sitting. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The second reading report is next. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 454-01-61, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only: I'm the only one. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture (SG, No. 59, 2012, amended, No. 102 of 2012 and No. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, 1. In para. 1 the number 2. In para. The 3th number
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u179	Are there any speeches on the proposed texts of the report on the second reading of this bill? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the bill supported by the Commission without number. What's this paragraph? [[Declarations between President Tsetska Tsacheva, rapporteur Rumen Hristov and Vice-President Yanaki Stoilov.]] In the report on the second vote following the name of the law, the....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We vote on the name of the law. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. An importer shall have a written paragraph which is not numbered. However, the Commission, in principle supporting the text of the importer, proposes a single version of paragraph and the text has already been read correctly. The only paragraph is the content of the Commission's report. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u180	Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The bill was adopted unanimously and in a second vote. Moving on to the next point... [[Reply from BSP LB: "Procedure! "]] Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand that there has been an agreement in the Commission for Control of the Special Intelligence Funds.. The bill for amendments to this law to be adopted in two votes, as is the text of art. 77, para. 2. This is possible if the two votes are carried out in one sitting. As today's sitting continues, I declare that I will make my proposal to drop out during the vote at second reading of this bill, for which I do not need a deadline to submit such a proposal, or I will simply vote against these texts, which is equivalent to their adoption or not. [[GERB's line.]] I don't want to do this instead of the chairman of the board, but as I declare my wish to be given a deadline for proposals between first and second readings...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u182	Seven days?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u183	...I won't make written proposals, I won't make such proposals, I don't need a deadline, we're in today's session, so I'm making a formal proposal based on art. 77, para. 2 The SRS bill should be adopted in two readings in today's plenary session. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Lazarov, I didn't know about your arrangement. Since you have agreed so by all parliamentary groups, my personal opinion on this bill remains my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u184	Apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u185	In accordance with art. 77, para. 2 The National Assembly may decide, exceptionally, that the two votes be held in one sitting. This provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendments or additions to the bill have been made during the discussion. The discussion is over. The debate procedure has been closed. It explicitly stated that there would be proposals, which is why there is no way to allow a voting procedure and at second reading on this bill in the same sitting. On that basis, I refuse to accept the procedure Mrs. Maya Manolova requested. [[Heckling]] You have the floor, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u186	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that just a few days ago, last week, despite our objections, two votes in one plenary sitting were adopted, two laws were adopted, one with explicit objections that we would like to make proposals for a second reading. However, given the importance of the act, the majority adopted their bills without complying with our intention to make proposals. I now declare from the parliamentary platform that I will not make proposals between first and second readings, which unties Parliament's hands to accept in today's plenary sitting two readings of this bill. Since, even more so, there have been other examples in which the time limit for proposals between first and second readings has been shortened to three or two hours, referring to a Constitutional Court decision, which says that if such an application is given by a Member of the National Assembly, time can be provided for it, and (even if this time is not needed in the three-day parliamentary rules) is some time, which is reasonable enough to make proposals. That's the constitutional requirement. There is such a constitutional solution. At the moment I am not prepared to tell you its exact number, but I reiterate that I will not make any proposals between first and second reading that there is no obstacle to adopting this bill at second reading in this plenary sitting, if you wish, so that the responsibility for this will be accepted or not in two readings in this Chamber is ultimately yours and the decision is yours. [[Noise and lines.]] Once again, I say that this is my personal opinion, which the majority can ultimately resolve with his vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u187	The text of the Rules of Procedure, the norm, is stated during the debates and only then, if it is not stated that there will be proposals, can a vote be accepted on two readings. It cannot be withdrawn once the debates are closed, so everything else we have heard since then is another interpretation of our Rules. Moving on to the next point: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW OF OWNITY. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u188	Madam President, honourable Members! Please, in connection with the second vote of the Law amending the Law on Property and on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules in plenary allow Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u189	I put the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Property Act, No 402-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2014. The Act for the Amendment of the Property Act. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the law: The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Property Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u191	Please vote on the proposed version of the Commission for the name of the law. 90 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to amend the name of the law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u192	According to § 1 "A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: "In § 1 of the Draft Law, the words "31 December 2017' shall be replaced by "30 June 2016'. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Petar Slavov the proposal has been made. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Act supplementing the Property Act makes the following amendments and additions: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words "supplied and municipal property" shall be replaced by "private state or municipal property" and the words "supplied" 31 December 2014 shall be replaced by "supplied" 31 December 2017. 2. The creation of para. 2: By 30 June 2015, the Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly an action plan containing all necessary measures to be taken by the relevant state and local authorities in order to comply with the deadline under para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' Mr. Chairman, allow me to clarify that in the version supported by the Commission the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Yavor Haytov and the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Chetin Kazak is also reflected.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u193	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the President of the Legal Commission said, we had made proposals to reduce the duration of the moratorium from three years to two, which we withdrew to the Commission. We decided to support Valeri Simeonov's proposal and a group of MPs from the Patriotic Front, in fact the extension to be for a year and a half. The reason we supported it was that this gave a very strong signal to the administration that this extension is indeed being done for the last time and that it is not correct every three years to extend this period again for three years and to create legal uncertainty. We of the Reformation bloc will support this proposal by fellow Members of the Patriotic Front. We think it's reasonable. We believe that the deadline is long enough and if the administration wishes to exert itself, so to speak, and to complete once and for all the actuarial and property clarification procedures, so that this issue can be resolved once and for all, as it is ordered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u195	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Firstly, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Reformation Block and the other Members who supported our proposal at the Commission meeting. Why are we offering a deadline that is half of the importer's proposal? Mr. Slavov said some of the arguments. I'll fill it in when I say this. Colleagues, the main argument against our proposal was that there were no cadastral maps drawn up and they were drawn up in a longer period of time. I remind everyone that the Law on Cadastral and Property Register has been in operation since 1 January 2001. 14 years have passed and the administration has never found the time to speak about both municipal and state, to be able to provide both the necessary financial and the necessary administrative resources to make these maps. What's the guarantee that in three years we'll have maps made? There's no guarantee! The three-year term is a comforting deadline for the administration, and the only thing we're going to do is prolong the agony that's been going on for so long. The period of a year and a half is much more disciplined and will give a clear signal to both municipal and regional administration that it can no longer continue. The advantage given at the time of state and municipal property over private property, provided that all types of property must be equal to the Constitution, must be suspended. We believe that a year and a half is a reasonable period for carrying out the relevant procedures under the Public Procurement Act, in which cadastral maps are to be made where there are none, and respectively with the Moratorium on the limitation period for the acquisition of property, private, state and municipal property, this thing to be terminated. I therefore call on you to support this proposal for a year and a half. It is in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u197	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u198	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I have further reasons for the draft Law amending the Law on Property in relation to the term, namely to be 3 years. The proposed period for suspension of the acquired limitation on state and municipal properties for another 3 years is considered to be optimally reasonable and necessary, in view of the dynamics of the approval of the cadastral map and the cadastral registers of the individual settlements and lands on the territory of the country. The adoption of the cadastral map and cadastral registers for the whole territory of Bulgaria will enable the district governors and mayors of municipalities, having at their disposal the cadastral registers, to obtain information about the properties for which there are no documents for ownership in the registers. After assessing the characteristics of the properties, acts of state or municipal property will be drawn up for those of which there is sufficient reason to believe that they constitute State property, respectively municipal property. This will help to finalize the process of the initial activization of all properties. In addition, the entry into force of the cadastral maps and cadastral registers, accordingly amendment of existing ones, leads to a change of the individualizing features of the property.. State and municipal property, which requires the same to be implemented, respectively, re-activated by new acts under the provisions of the State Property Act and the Municipal Property Act. The proposal for a 3-year period is also consistent with the implementation of the other accompanying actions on which the process of shaping the documentation on the occurrence, modification and termination of the right of ownership of the State depends; checks to establish the actual status and location of the properties, their users holding them; consultation; correspondence with various departments; assignment of geodetic photographs under the Cadastral and Property Register Act. The overall coverage of all properties is seriously hampered by the lack of sufficient financial and personnel resources available to the district and municipal administrations, as well as by the lack of the necessary information to identify the properties of the existing property card, a detailed development plan or a cadastral map and cadastral registers and a built-up property register. The limitation of the term would lead to the acquisition of State and municipal property by third parties on the grounds of limitation, which would result in serious losses in the financial proceeds from the disposal of such properties. The extension of the period by another 3 years will enable individualization of the properties with a view to establishing the existence or absence of unactivated and non-residential state and municipal properties and respectively the adoption of actuarial actions to achieve maximum protection of the state and public interest. The aim is to achieve to the full extent effective control over the management and full use of these properties by the State and the local self-government bodies in accordance with the provisions of the State Property Act and the Municipal Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u199	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Firstly, I vote on the proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 27, against 10, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. I now propose the text in the version proposed by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 110 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 21. The text of the Commission in its version has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u200	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u201	Please vote on the text proposed by the Commission on the name of the division. They voted 114 MPs: 112, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u202	..................................................... The Act shall enter into force on 31 December 2014 and shall enter into force on 31 December The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u203	We vote on the text of the importer for § 2. They voted 111 MPs: for 102, against none, abstentioned 9. The text of § 2 by importer has been adopted and thus the Law of the Second Voting. The next item on the agenda: SELECTION OF STANDING DELEGATIONS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS. There are proposals received in the Ministry of Justice from the parliamentary groups of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front, the Bulgarian Democratic Center, Alternative for Bulgarian Revival, Political Party Please vote on the proposals to be made by the parliamentary tribune of BSP left Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor for proposals on behalf of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will read our suggestions, and then, as we agreed, you will reflect them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u205	I'll cover the delegation by delegation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u206	About the permanent delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy. For the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe For the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe In the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Angel Naydenov. In the permanent delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union "Michael Mikov." In the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation In the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, Atanas Merdjanov. In the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Francophonie In the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe, Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u207	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I present to you our proposals in the interparliamentary delegations. As President of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, we propose Mr. Stanislav Anastasov. For Vice-President of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. For Vice-President of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation As a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe......................................................................................... For a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. For a member of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union, Mr. Aliosman Imamov. For a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative..................................... Mithat Metin................................................ For a member of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy "Mr. Yordan Tsonev. For a member of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe, Mr. Dzhevdet Chakarov. For a replacement member in the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe............................................................................ Hamid Hamid Hamid Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. I will then apply your written proposals to the record. We now begin a delegation by delegation. Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 25 letters.................................................................................................... 26 of the Statute of the Council of Europe HAS DECIDED 1. elect a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in a composition of six main representatives and six alternate representatives as follows: - for the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB - two main and one substitute; - for the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria - one main and one substitute; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - one main and one substitute; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center - one replacement; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka - for the ABB Parliamentary Group - one replacement. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: (a) Main representatives: Gemma Marinova Grozdanova from the political party GERB parliamentary group Danail Dimitrov Kirilov from the political party GERB parliamentary group Antony Antonyev Trenchev from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group Valeri Simeonov Simeonov from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mustafa Karadaye of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Yanaki Stoilov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria; (b) replacement representatives: Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB Valeri Zablyanov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Hamid Hamid of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Kancho Yanev Filipov from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Desislaw Slavov Chukolov from the Parliamentary Group of Rositsa Yordanova Yanakieva from the parliamentary group of ABB. 3. Selects the delegation's leadership in composition: - Gemma Marinova Grozdanova Head; - Antony Antonyev Trenchev Deputy Head; - Valeri Simeonov Simeonov Deputy Head; - Yanaki Stoilov. Please vote on such proposals Draft decision on allocation, designation and leadership of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is unanimous. Let's move on to the next one. Project! DECISION on the election of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative, composed of five members, as follows: - for the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block - for the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front 1. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: Silvia Atanasova Hubenova from the parliamentary group of PP GERB. Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva from the parliamentary group of PP GERB. Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Mithat Metin of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 3. Selects the delegation's leadership in composition: Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev, Head; Silvia Anastasova Hubenova Please vote on your proposals Draft decision on the allocation of members, the name composition and the leadership of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is unanimous. Next. Project! DECISION: on the election of a Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, composed of three members, as follows: - for the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB; - for the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: Svetlana Angelova Naydenova from the parliamentary group of PP GERB. Stanislav Anastasov of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Atanas Merdjanov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. 3. He elected as head of the delegation Stanislav Anastasov from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Please vote on your proposals Draft decision on the allocation of members, the name composition and the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next one. Project! DECISION on the election of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in a composition of six members, as follows: - for the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB; - for the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - for the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block - for the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: Plamen Ivanov Manushev from the parliamentary group of PP GERB; Valentin Ivanov Radev from the parliamentary group of PP GERB; Petar Vladislavov Slavov of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block; Rumen Marinov Yonchev from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center; Chetin Kazak of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Angel Naydenov of the Parliamentary Group of BSP LB. 3. Selects the delegation's leadership in composition: Plamen Ivanov Manushev, Head; Petar Vladislavov Slavov Deputy Head; Chetin Kazak, Please vote on your proposal Draft decision on the allocation of members among the parliamentary groups, the name composition and the direction of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is unanimous. I'm offering you the next one. Project! DECISION on the election of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones, composed of four members, as follows: - for the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB; - for the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. - for the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block - for the parliamentary group of ABB 1. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: Cornelia Dobreva Marinova from the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB; Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group; Ivan Kostadinov Stankov from the ABB Parliamentary Group; Dragomir Stoynev from the parliamentary group of BSP LB. 3. Selects the delegation's leadership in composition: Ivan Kostadinov Stankov Head; Kornelia Marinova, Deputy Head of the Service for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Please vote on your proposals Draft decision on the allocation of members, the name composition and the direction of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposed draft decision has been adopted. Project! DECISION on the election of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy in a composition of five members as follows: - for the Parliamentary Group of GERB one; - for the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" one. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: - Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev from the parliamentary group of political party GERB. - Julian Krastev Angelov of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. - Volen Nikolov Siderov of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack." [[Noise, cheering and lines.]] - Vasil Antonov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u210	Yordan Tsonev, Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u211	Yes, Yordan Tsonev of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Jordan Tsonev of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 3. He elected as head of the delegation Vasil Antonov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Please vote on the proposed allocation of the composition of the delegation, the name composition and the management. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The decision is unanimous. Next project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union, composed of five members, as follows: - for the parliamentary group of political party GERB two; - for the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front one. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: - Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska from the parliamentary group of political party GERB. - Dimitar Borisov Glauchev from the parliamentary group of political party GERB. - Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. - Mikhail Mikov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. - Aliosman Imamov of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 3. Selects the delegation's leadership in composition: - Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska Head; - Dimitar Borisov Glavchev. Please vote on the proposed allocation, designation and leadership of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to the next project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elect a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, composed of five main representatives and five alternate representatives, as follows: - for the parliamentary group of political party GERB - two main and two alternates; - for the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front - one replacement; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center - one replacement; - for the ABB Parliamentary Group - one replacement. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: (a) Main Members: - Desislava Valcheva Atanasova from GERB Parliamentary Group. - Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov from the Parliamentary Group of GERB. - Dimitar Andreev Delchev of the Parliamentary Group of Reformation Block. - Christian Vigenin from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. - Lutvi Mestan of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. (b) Substitute Members: - Irena Ivanova Kotseva from the parliamentary group of political party GERB. - Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev from the parliamentary group of political party GERB. - Milen Vassilev Mihov of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. - Hristo Georgiev Todorov from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. - Kiril Petrov Tsochev from the ABB Parliamentary Group. 3. Selects the delegation's leadership in composition: - Desislava Valcheva Atanasova Head; - Christian Vigenin, Deputy Head; - Dimitar Andreev Delchev. Please vote on the proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. The next project is: DECISION on the election of a permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Cooperation Process The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Cooperation Process in a composition of five main representatives and three alternate representatives as follows: - for the parliamentary group of political party GERB - two main and one substitute; - for the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc - one main one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front - one replacement; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center - one main one; - for the ABB Parliamentary Group - one replacement. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: (a) Essential: - Diana Ivanova Yordanova from the parliamentary group of political party GERB. - Korman Jakubov Ismailov of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. - Stefan Georgiev Kenov from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. - Philip Popov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. - Jevdet Chakarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. (b) Substitutes: - Menda Kirilova Stoyanova from the parliamentary group of political party GERB. - Christian Radev Mitev from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. - Mariana Georgieva Todorova from the parliamentary group of ABB. 3. He elected Head of the delegation Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska. Please vote on your proposed draft decision. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. And the final draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. elects a Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, composed of five members, as follows: - for the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB - two; - for the Parliamentary Group of BSP Left Bulgaria - one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms - one; - for the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front one. 2. Selects the composition of the delegation as follows: - Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev from the political party GERB parliamentary group; - Pavel Alexeev Hristov of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB; - Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front; - Petar Kanev from the Parliamentary Group of BSP Left Bulgaria; - Ramadan Atalay of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 3. Selects the delegation's leadership in composition: - Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova Head; - Pavel Aleksayev Hristov. Please vote on the proposal so made. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u212	Mr. Lazarov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u213	Dear Madam President, on the occasion of the amendments to the Law on Special Intelligence Funds discussed earlier in today's meeting, the procedure under art. 77, para. 2. I didn't do that as President of the Commission, by the way. There was a statement by Mrs. Manolova at one point, which is why I am making a procedure for colleagues to vote on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 in the second vote the amendment of the Special Intelligence Means Act, of course, if there is also a clear statement that there will be no proposal between the first and second votes to amend or supplement the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u214	Mr. Lazarov, just an application that there will be no between first and second readings is not enough, because personally from the stand it was stated that at the second reading there will be proposals for dropping the texts, and this is not an editorial change. However, if Mrs. Manolova says that there will be no connection to the second vote, I would like to request an explicit statement from the stands. She basically said: I will not make a proposal, but at second reading I will question again, I will take part in a debate on a second vote. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u215	Let's hear the statement, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u216	Honourable Members, Madam President! I'm not making any suggestions. [[Applause from GERB and RB]] under the Special Intelligence Act. I don't mind if you accept it at second reading. My opinion is against and remains my opinion. I'll only put it to the vote. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u217	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposed procedural motion for voting at the second reading of this bill. 110 MPs voted: 104, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Report for second reading, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u218	THE LAW OF THE amending the Special Intelligence Means Act § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 3 is § 2. Art. 20a canceled. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34b, para. 1 the words "respecting the principle of financial ownership" shall be deleted. Final provision § 4. The Law shall enter into force as from 1 January 2015 and shall apply from 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-18.u219	Statements? I won't. I put to a second vote the proposed texts of the President of the Commission, supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 90 against 8, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Tomorrow the meeting starts at 9:00 with the second vote of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Bill. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
