ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I propose to your attention a draft Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 12 to 14 November 2014: 1. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Resigned by the MP Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. 2. Changes in the compositions of temporary committees of the National Assembly. Importers: Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova. 3. End of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the management of the investment activity. Resigned by Nikolay Popov on 11 November 2014. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Agreement amending and supplementing the Financial Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Council of Ministers. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Foundation of the European University Institute, signed in Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Convention on Revision of 18 June 1992. 6. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2013. Importer: Supreme Judicial Council. 7. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2013. Importer: Supreme Judicial Council. 8. Parliamentary control under art. art. 89? 101 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Several announcements concerning bills and draft decisions on the time from 5 November to 11 November 2014: A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services for the development and implementation of water supply and sewerage between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law for the ratification of the Amendment of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition. Importers: Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act. Importer: Tuncher Kardzhaliev. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Importers: Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Importers: Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova. Draft decision to complete the management and composition of the Temporary Commission for the preparation of draft Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly. Importers: Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova. On 10 November 2014 a notice was received in the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 13, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which I have been informed of a change in the leadership of the political party GERB. Following a meeting of the GERB Parliamentary Group on 7 November 2014 the following decisions were adopted: 1. He elected Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov as Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. 2. He elected Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. 3. He elected Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. 4. He elected Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov as Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. Protocol No 3 of 7 November 2014 was annexed to the letter for a meeting of the Parliamentary Group and the signatures of the members of the Parliamentary Group. In the period from 5 to 12 November 2014, 3 materials from the National Statistical Institute have been received to the National Assembly, containing results from statistical surveys on indexes of turnover in the Section of.. Retail trade, excluding trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles; indexes of industrial production; indexes of construction production; information on consumer surveillance conducted in October 2014; and information on average monthly salary and list of employees in labour and service for the third quarter of 2014. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you are aware that by voting on the composition of the Council of Ministers of 7 November 2014 the powers of elected Members of the National Assembly of Forty- Third National Assembly have been suspended by law. A letter was received from the Central Election Commission with relevant decisions attached to it for elected MPs, who are from the respective multi-mandatory electoral regions, at the place of the elected MPs already passed to the executive power. I will brief you on the content of the decisions. It has become clear that we have not voted on the Programme for this week, and we have already gone business on its points. Please vote on the proposed Programme Project. Vote 193 MPs: 174 against 9, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The decisions of the Central Election Commission shall be as follows: - Decision No 1355-NS of 10 November 2014 declaring the elected national representative in the twenty-fifth election district of Sofia, Anna Vassileva Alexandrova, Еждавна......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - Decision No 1356-NS of 10 November 2014 of the CEC, which again: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 302, para. 2 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as elected MP in the Twenty-fourth Election Region, Sofia, Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova, ETU, respectively, from the list of the Political Party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1357-NS of 10 November 2014 of the CEC. On the same basis, he was named as a Member of the National Assembly in the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region of Sofia, Boris Borisov Stanimirov, Esc. - Decision No 1358-НС of 10 November 2014. On the same basis it was declared as elected MP in the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region "Sofia," Mariana Georgieva Todorova, Еcetna, from the list of Coalition ABB (Alternative for Bulgarian Revival) in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1359-NS of 10 November 2014. On the same basis, he was appointed as a Member of Parliament in the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, Georg Danielov Georgiev, Esc. from the list of the Political Party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1360-NS of 10 November 2014. On the same basis he was named as a Member of the National Assembly in the Third Election Region of Varna, Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev, Head of Staff, respectively, from the list of the Political Party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1361-NS of 10 November 2014. On the same basis, he was named as a Member of the National Assembly in the Seventeenth Election Region of Plovdiv, Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski, Esc..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - Decision No 1362-NS. On the same basis, he was declared a elected MP in the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, Antonyev Trenchev, Еждав, shown by the list of Coalition "Reformator Bloc," BZNS, DBG, DSB, NPSD, SDS, in the 43rd National Assembly; - Decision No 1363-NS of 10 November 2014. On the same basis, he was appointed as the MP in the Sixteenth Election Region of Plovdiv, Petar Kostadinov Petrov, Esc. from the list of the Political Party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1364-NS of 10 November 2014. On the same basis, the Central Election Commission has declared as elected Member of Parliament in the Third Election Region of Varna, Nelly Ruskova Petrova, Esc., shown by the list of the Political Party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1365-NS of 10 November 2014. On the same basis it was declared a elected MP in the twenty-sixth election district of Sofiyski, Irena Ivanova Kotseva, Ecetov, shown by the list of the political party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1366-NS. On the same basis, the CEC has declared as elected MP in the Twenty-First Election Region of Slivenski, Maria Shtereva Belova, Esc., from the list of the Political Party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1367-NS of 10 November 2014. On the same basis the CEC has declared as elected Member of Parliament in the Second Election Region of Burgas, Rumen Dinev Zhelev, Esc. from the list of the Political Party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly; - Decision No 1368-НС of 10 November 2014. On the same basis the CEC has declared as elected MP in the Twenty-third Election Region of Sofia, Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev, Esc. - we also have a Member of Parliament who was elected by Decision No 1317-NS of 10 October 2014, when we were all declared elected Members of the National Assembly. It is about Mrs. Svetlana Angelova Naydenova from the Nineteenth Election Region of Ruseski, from the list of the political party GERB, which, due to illness, had no opportunity to take an oath until now. Please, Mrs. Svetlana Angelova, along with the others declared elected as MPs with the decisions of the CEC of 10 November to enter the hall for taking the oath. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Announced as elected Members of the National Assembly shall be arranged around the stands. Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u3	Colleagues, congratulations! By letter No 454-00-332 of 11 November 2014 in the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly was filed an application by Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov, MP from the Twenty-Fiveth Multi-Municipal Region of Sofia: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as a Member of the National Assembly, declared elected in the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly by Decision No 1317 of 10 October 2014 of the Central Election Commission. I would like my authority as a Member of the National Assembly to be terminated prematurely by a decision of the National Assembly. I offer to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly a draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov as a MP from the twenty-fifth multi-manded electoral region of Sofia. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who wish to take up the proposed draft decision? I can't see. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the draft decision I introduced you to suspend the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Vote 192 MPs: 186 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: CHANGES IN THE CONVERSIONS OF TEMPORARY COMMITMENTS, with the relevant voting projects. [[DPS lines.]] On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Mestan wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I will present you with a position on the ideas for the removal of Turkish news from the national air of Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television. Ladies and gentlemen! These days we mark 25 years of the transition and 15 years of ratification of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. In this double-time framework for measuring the extent of our democratic development, we are observing exactly the opposite of a specific regression, a revision of civilisational choice by now the second step in the power of national populism and as a direct consequence is the first announcement of the new ruling majority, no matter who makes it, for removing Turkish news from the national television and radio programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, in the philosophy of the Revival Process was the denial of differences, the non-recognizion of differences, so when in 1998 the then majority of the United Democratic Forces, with the support of the opposition DPS, adopted the Law on Radio and Television, in which for the first time the right of representatives of minorities in Bulgaria to be able to receive information in their mother tongue on the national air, Bulgaria gave a clear testimony that it breaks with this denial of the ethnic diversity that inhabits Bulgaria. Today, 15-16 years later, attempts are being made to revoke the rights that have already been won. Turkish news has not only information but, in times more symbolic value, because they represent respect for ethno-religious diversity. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we sincerely call for you to reconsider this position and listen to the extremely responsible, civilized, sustained position on this issue of the Head of State, President Rosen Plevneliev. I would like to conclude a more specific dimension of this idea from a point of view.. pay attention, precisely to the understanding of the national interest, if you will, of patriotism. What does it mean to remove news from national programmes and target certain regions? Which regions, honourable Members? You mean Kardzhali, Razgrad, Shumen, Silistra? Is that what you mean? But it's dangerous. That's not patriotism. This is precisely contrary to the national interest because Bulgaria is sovereign, unified and indivisible and is not a manifestation of patriotism, and it is not respect for the national interest through a radio and television signal to draw ethnic territories on the map of Bulgaria. It's anything but patriotism! This is anything but a proper understanding of national interest! We are against replacing the integration model with the separation model. This idea leads to separation of Bulgaria through a radio and television signal. Therefore, I also welcome the sensible voices that have been heard by representatives of the ruling majority, and I count on after a discussion, first and foremost within you, to hear this particular position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because I conclude with this, the Bulgarian national interest does not imply by means of a radio and television signal to draw ethnic territories. It's dangerous! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Mr. Rosen Petrov on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u6	It's hard to talk after a speaker like Mr. Mestan, but I'll try. This is a declaration dedicated to 25 years of free Bulgaria, which we somehow missed in Parliament. A few days ago, Germany celebrated the fall of the Berlin Wall. I ask myself, when did this wall begin to be removed? Perhaps even with Kennedy's famous speech, who in 1963 said: "Ich bin ein Berliner" as a symbol of being a free man. Or perhaps with what the first and last president of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, a man loved in the West and not quite loved in his own homeland. It doesn't really matter. That's history. That's not the point. In Germany, we saw smiling people talking about unity, about peace, even about love. At the same time, we celebrated 25 years of November 10th with overshadowed pseudopolitologists who were still arguing whether this was a party coup, about communism, about anticommunism, about how many the dissidents were, bragging about merit, and without being called Stefan Savov, Petar Dertliev, Angel Wagenstein or Neshka Robeva. Did you see anyone talk about unification, let alone love?! These days I heard here to talk about what is the curse of Bulgaria. The curse of Bulgaria is this invisible, unbreakable wall that separates us. Most historians claim that the concrete walls of this dividing wall are flooded when we lose our national ideal to live in a united Bulgaria. This year we celebrate World War I. Communist historians called it imperialist, the winners of the great, and when we fought with honor and dignity in it, it was simply called a war for national unification. It also killed 101,000 Bulgarian citizens. To be perfectly honest, thousands of these Bulgarian soldiers had Turkish names. Then comes the severed head of Stefan Stambolov, the attack at the church on St. Sunday, when the elite of our army perished, the glass eye of Geo Milev, baked in a furnace by officers of the Roof-2...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then comes the shot Vaptsarov, in whose house he visited his father Yonko Vaptsarov German Kaiser Wilhelm. Is his verses that for his faith there are no bullets found, not the faith of the communists shot, and of the thousands of king's slain officers and burning men?! Didn't they all die in this insane fratrition, all in the name of their mother Bulgaria! There's a great folk psychologist who wrote a great essay in the 1930s. His name is Nayden Shaitanov, and his essay is called The Spirit of Denial in the Bulgarians. He explores folklore and gives the following examples: the Ortashka mare and the dogs do not eat it, many grandmothers, a small baby, the wolf's neck is fat because it does its own work, the world can't fix it, but try to fix it for yourself. I assure you, we will be wiped out as a country not only because of the budget deficit, but because of this spirit of constant opposition. So let us not build walls among ourselves, but bridges, so that one day someone can say: I am a Bulgarian citizen! Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the issue has already been raised about the past 25 years since the beginning of the political changes in Bulgaria, I think it is appropriate to express on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria our vision for this period of our country's life, the nature and balance of the Bulgarian transition. In the 1970s, Zhou En Lai was asked what his position was on the Great French Revolution. He replied: "It is still early to say. Of course, we do not need to wait 100 or 200 years to answer what the Bulgarian transition is, not only because we do not have such a many-year tradition of Chinese civilization, but also because today's world is much more dynamic and the time is much more compressed, because Bulgarian citizens cannot wait for Bulgarian politicians to take these actions, some of which are the result of their own actions over two decades. The fall of the Berlin Wall really unleashed profound changes in all spheres of public life and international relations. There were different expectations, but almost everyone, the majority of the Bulgarian people thought that the handicaps of socialism should be removed, but to preserve all of its achievements - free health and education, high employment, personal security and relative equality. This is why Bulgarian citizens on two occasions supported the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the first years after the changes and it was the only one in Eastern Europe who won by an absolute majority the first multiparty elections. Then, on several occasions, we also received support so that we could participate in the government. But no matter how political parties changed during this period, Bulgaria's problems deepened. There are common trends in these changes across Europe, but we must also note the uniqueness of the Bulgarian transition in several respects, unfortunately, mainly in a very negative way. There was no other country organised through its rulers, through the then Bulgarian right that would not only remove established social structures but also physically destroy Bulgarian agriculture. The production of its main products fell 3-4 times. Bulgaria from one of the leading exporters of this production in Eastern and Western Europe has become an importer of all agricultural goods. It was a similar situation in the industry. It also dropped by two to three times, judging from the decline in gross domestic product in just ten years, compared to the end of the 80s. Our country was in the 15th place in exports per capita, that is, one of the most export-oriented economies. In 1988-1989 Bulgaria was the world leader in the production of electric trucks, forklifts and cigarettes per capita. She's number one in Eastern Europe in terms of telephone density. In 1980 it was the third country in the world after the US and Japan, which produced microprocessor systems, albeit a few years after the United States in its developments. The situation in all other and quantified indicators is similar in education, health and social areas. In the early 1990s Bulgaria ranked 26th according to the UN Human Development Index. In the following years she fell sharply in this ranking and is currently 57th place. We are three times behind the average European level on the parith of purchasing power. More than 20% of the Bulgarian population today lives below the poverty line and, notice, the share of the poor has increased even after Bulgaria's entry into the European Union. About half of Bulgarian citizens live at risk of poverty. The majority of working people are also poor because their income is less than necessary to support themselves and their families. All this shows that we have reached critical boundaries and the latest polls of the public opinion conducted by us, even those who were awarded by the organizers of the celebrations under the motto..25 years of freedom.. cannot hide the fact that the majority of Bulgarian citizens are disappointed with the transition. So for objective and subjective reasons, it was unsuccessful and even failed for two main reasons because it did not bring Bulgaria to a higher level of socio-economic development and because it did not meet citizens' expectations for more justice and less inequality between them. Because it benefits narrow groups of society. However, this is not only a Bulgarian problem. Bulgaria is a very vivid example of this trend, because today we need here, at least on our behalf, to state categorically that neoliberal policy has led to these results. The development of financial speculative capital, especially its impact on smaller and less developed countries, has very severe consequences. We, in turn, can say that social liberalism also exhausts its capabilities if they have given any results in some of the developed European countries. Therefore, Bulgaria needs to think about this post-transition policy, which will solve the problems that have caused the 10th of November itself, but to an even greater extent to deal with everything that has accumulated over two decades. History doesn't go linearly. Consider that it took about 100 years from the beginning of the French Revolution, through the Paris Commune, to establish Republican rule in France. And today we have to say that Bulgaria, which was on the threshold of the 1990s immediately after the group of the most developed countries, has now fallen directly before the group of developing countries, even though we are members of the organisations of the European Union, NATO, in which mostly highly developed countries are members. This is indicative that we need to turn our membership into the European Union not just as an additional sign, but as a means of making use of opportunities, as a means to solve the problems of the majority of Bulgarian citizens, to have a much more active and multi-directional foreign policy. Because this transition, as it happens in other places, has become the embezzlement of property through the use of state power. And that is what some of the leading Western researchers are paying attention to today, because the world's model itself is pushing towards similar degradation and destruction of social structures. Because we must again see the role of the national state in the process of globalisation, of integration in European and Euro-Atlantic structures. These are the big problems facing today's Bulgaria and we expect to avoid further collapse because today the Bulgarian citizens' trust in the established economic and political model has reached these critical limits. We call on you to look for the dimensions of the new, modern and right-wing policy, which will outline the path of the new Bulgarian transition to the 21st century, remembering that our homeland is Bulgaria and that we are all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" "Mr. Volen Siderov."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" I would like to make a statement about this period that has passed, but in a political sense. Because we're not a book club. Essays and essays are good, Mr. Petrov, but we're not a book club. We are not also a club of political science or a round table to read opinions about the period from this or that, according to his point of view or according to the NGO that pays him. We're politicians. What's politics? This is a series of real activities that should lead to real effects in society. Therefore, when we speak from this platform about the transition, its consequences and what has happened in Bulgaria, we need to be aware of our political views and the way in which we work. Here, in this Chamber, the parties present, those who are held for older, more traditional, should explain why they agreed to this transition. Why, for example, did the socialist party, who converted from communist to socialist, accept such a transition and give it a boost? It is unnecessary to transfer to what is called the right, which then simply gladly did what he was told from the outside. The question is: what is the genesis? The question is: who betrayed the fortress inside? And these were part of this Politburo, which brought down its own leader and said: Here, in Bulgaria, there will be wild capitalism or whatever they say outside. It was a coup d'état made on the outside. What does it mean outside? Soviet and American Embassy. They worked together back then. Now it's a completely different picture. Now we have no such synergies, America does not dominate in this way, as it dominated in the 1990s, and its deception, the deception of the West, which many of the Bulgarians succumbed to, that the West, in the face of America and Western Europe, really wants Bulgaria to prosper. It turns out that the West needs us only as colonial territory to be used for cheap labor, to take its natural resources without money, and here to place their malls and shops in which to sell their goods. Our goods got in the way. We were a really developed industrial state. I thank Mr. Stoilov for quoting part of my speeches, shows and so on, in which over the years I have explained these things. I'm not gonna do it again. Yes, Bulgaria was a highly developed industrial state. At the same time, there was no intellectual freedom in Bulgaria. This should be said clearly because I have been a participant in movements that fought for more intellectual freedom.... to publish newspapers, books, to speak, to write. Well, it turns out there's a great deal of illusion, because where are the geniuses after 1989 whose works were hidden in the drawers? Somehow they didn't show up. Yes, there was a variety of many newspapers and at the same time the level of all journalism fell down. No offense, colleagues behind the cameras and microphones, but that's a fact. The yellow appeared, the shroud appeared, the parody of the word appeared, not the word itself. So freedom of speech turned out to be an illusion, and it does not lead to better. As for political actions, I would ask all those who were in power, left or right, centrists and so on, and here most of the parties were in power, I would ask them, "Why are you doing an analysis of the transition, that it led to collapse, but you agreed to privatize everything, didn't oppose criminal privatization, didn't stand in defence of this Bulgarian industry, part of which was really at a global level, didn't say no, let's see what we're going to do in Bulgaria. That's what everyone who's been running these years is responsible for. They should now say, "Why did this happen, somehow we were observers?" It's not fair, it's not correct. A left-wing party that introduces a flat tax is not left for me. A right-wing party that agrees not to have a Bulgarian industry and says right-wing, capital to defend itself, it is not right-wing because it protects foreign capital. Currently in Bulgaria is playing out foreign capital and banking, and industrial, and commercial. We don't have our own industry, our own trade, it's all in someone else's hands. The profits of this go to foreign accounts, our banks are foreign, and we are a colonized, enslaved nation, which from year to year begins to live worse and from year to year the people no longer trust those who rule, whoever they are. This picture can only be changed by political means if we do a clear analysis and say: it was a mistake entering the European Union; it was a mistake entering NATO. If we're honest, we'll say it, yes. Not only have we found out since we entered the European Union that life has not improved. What does that mean, dear colleagues and coworkers? It means it was a mistake. Why don't we admit it? Because it's sacrilege, oh, it's blasphemy, to say that getting into the great European Union is a mistake, it's a bad thing, like the old days against the great Soviet Union couldn't fight. Have we reached this point that today we cannot clearly and honestly say: entering NATO was a mistake? At first, NATO is a big fraud, because when the same one that was asked here, Gorbachev, who did not want to hear it in his homeland, when he went and handed over the interests of his country and the entire Eastern bloc and agreed to unite the two Germans, lied to him and said: NATO will not expand, NATO will break apart along with the Warsaw Treaty. The Warsaw treaty broke in 1991 and NATO expanded. Currently here is the head of NATO, in Bulgaria, and he is talking to the Bulgarian leaders about how to expand NATO further to the east. That was a big con from the United States. Gorbachev and Gorbachev bought this scam, and Bulgaria was, as always, a silent letter. Now what's stopping us if we're worthy politicians, say: our NATO membership does not bring us any benefits? Not only if we look pragmatically, not only at the fact that we don't have an army, that our military power is destroyed, broken down, that everything that was there has been gone, but because geopolitically we have become members of a union that has been working in fraud for 25 years. You ever say you're gonna break up NATO and it's not gonna expand to the east, it's a scam. So we're involved in a big scam. What could that possibly lead to? Is participating in fraud a good thing to do? You can't. Then why do we have to act that way, we have to be in NATO, we have to be in the EU, because, you know, there was no other way. There is how Bulgaria can maintain neutrality, it can be a country that... By the way, it's not true that we're a small country. I advise colleagues not to use this term here, because we are an average European country of size. Furthermore, we have an extremely great and dignified history and we can safely tell the other partners in Europe our position without worrying. But what's going on? We note that the transition is bad, but the representatives of this party or that party go to Brussels and keep quiet. They don't say a word out there, they don't say, "You fellows from Brussels, why don't you have any interest in our lives?" Why didn't you give us advice when the insane criminal privatization was going on and on the contrary, you said: give more, slowly run the privatization, continue the reforms, because the reforms outside understood them so.. obliterate your entire industry, we will tell you what to develop and tell you which sectors will take them our companies. Well, they took them. They have taken them and now, as has already been noted, Bulgaria from a leading place in some sectors is now at the bottom of all bottoms. And this does not cause a political reaction, because again, we are politicians, we should act, not write essays, not write poems. When we go to Brussels, we need to hear our voice and say: ladies and gentlemen from Brussels, we do not agree whether they will be sanctions that are damaging us, whether it will be a policy that is killing us industry, because, again, I will recall, in 2008, here in this House, only "Attack" voted against the Lisbon Treaty. And what is the Lisbon Treaty, the dictation of transnational companies against national states. Then with applause was accepted........................................................................................................ to Europe and.................................................................................................................................................. Well, yes, but we were right, because if you now read the criticisms of the Lisbon Treaty by Western analysts, you will collect such a volume. A lot of people are late to realize that we should have reacted then, but we didn't. Why, well, you know, European perspectives and so on and so forth. Tales, ideologists who do not have real political action, meaning and consequence. Therefore, my call is that I cannot do anything but call on all MPs to see what they are doing, to be in line with our interests, and not with ideologists, because our lives have gone under ideology. Robbing ideology doesn't lead to anything good. Practical politics means that sometimes you don't comply with the one that looks big. Today it is big, we have seen very big, many empires collapsed, Bulgaria remains. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. We are continuing with point two "Changes in the Chambers of Temporary Committees in the National Assembly." With an I.V. letter. No 454-02-28 of 11 November 2014 was submitted a draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance by the MPs Dimitar Glavchev and Menda Stoyanova. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly R-E-S-E: He elected Valentin Ivanov Radev and Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva as members of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Let me get this straight. After the election of Lilyana Pavlova and Ivaylo Moskovski, who were members of this commission from the GERB quota with this proposal of the Project for a solution, the quota is actually filled with the colleagues Valentin Ivanov Radev and Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva. Are there any willing to take part in this decision project? I won't. I put to the vote the draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Budget and Finance Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. The next Project for a Decision with importers Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova is to complete the management and composition of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Desislava Valcheva Atanasova as Chairman of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 2. He elected Stanislav Stoyanov and Metodi Borisov Andreev as members of the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The debates are open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the Draft Decision? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: 117, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The latest proposal of the Draft Decision is to fill the composition of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs with importers Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Anna Vasileva Alexandrova as a member of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Voting mode. They voted 126 MPs: 122, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Skip to next point of our weekly program: TERMINATION OF THE MANDATE OF THE COMMISSION'S REPRESENTATIVE FOR FINANCIAL SUPERVISION, MANAGING THE MANDRESS OF THE INVESSITION. By application No 420-07, from 11 November 2014 to the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Nikolay Isaev Popov, Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board, said that on the basis of art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act wants to be included on the agenda of the National Assembly the early termination of its term of office as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Board of Directors. In accordance with art. 10, para. 5 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act on early termination of the term of office of Vice-President, the Commission shall, on a proposal from the President, designate another member as its alternate, who shall exercise its powers until the new Vice-President takes office. With regard to the application received, I propose to your attention a draft decision for the early termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of the management of the investment activity. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED The term of office of Nikolai Isaev Popov is terminated early as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of management. Just to remind you that Mr. Nikolai Isaev Popov was elected by decision of the National Assembly of 22 May 2012. (prom., D.V., No. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Debates are open. Are there any MPs...? [[Heckling]] Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I fully support Mr. Nikolai Popov's decision to withdraw, it seems he has finally matured for this decision. Here we can raise a very serious discussion regarding the appointment of Mr Popov who then proposed it and whose interests were he defending in the Financial Supervision Commission itself? This can, of course, become a public discussion, it may not become a part of the opening of the backdoor curtain, but in this case the President of the Commission has clearly prevailed. This will ensure a little calmer and more normal work in the Commission, although this will not guarantee its effectiveness itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u13	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kadyev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will make a radically opposite speech by my colleague Chobanov. In my opinion, the Commission's task is not to be calm, but to work. I know Mr. Nikolay Popov as the director of the National Revenue Agency at the time. I am the person who asked for his resignation not because I was dissatisfied with it, but because I thought that we should build on it. Unfortunately, the NRA has been going backwards since then rather than forwards. I consider Mr. Popov to be an extremely quality person and I regret that he resigned because the Bulgarian administration cannot lose such people just like that. In this sense, I believe that pressure has been put on him. I believe that the situation in the C.F.R. is what we really need to discuss today, not as much Mr. Popov's personal decision as what is happening there. So I'd like to ask a few questions. Why did the Financial Supervision Commission totally miss out on what was going on in CCB, given that CCB is a supervised entity of the Financial Supervision Commission on at least five lines, both as an investment firm and as a trustee of bondholders, and the fact that CCB supervised entities had deposits in CCB, these are multiple pension funds, trust funds, the guarantee fund itself and who else? For the past three years, why has 90% of the C.F.R.C. been replaced, including people who are exceptional professionals and who have been working there from the very beginning on foreign-based projects on behalf of the C.E.R., building foreign administrations in surrounding countries? At the moment all these people are out and all work in a personal capacity for these foreign administrations. What do you think the C.F.R.'s reputation is when a C.F.R. President is a witness in Brendo's money laundering case? Mr. Tsvetanov is here and I want to ask him: this case was a great success, wasn't it?! Well, how can a witness in a case that has been hidden from the court be chairman of such an institution? What do you think the Western partners of these institutions think when they know that such a person is chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission? And this man is a former MP of GERB. Don't hide him, don't protect him. Call him here, let's ask him all these questions: what's going on in the Financial Supervision Commission and why is a second person leaving? Once one left in 2012, is now leaving a second one for personal reasons, only six months before the expiry of the mandate, provided that the talks on the next composition of the Commission can now begin in accordance with the law? Therefore, honourable Members, the real issue today is not Nikolai Popov's personal reasons. The real question is why does the Financial Supervision Commission not work and become a place where only accounts are cleared, and that is the only thing that happens there? Why has it once again proved that the institutions in Bulgaria do not work as the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission, the State Agency of National Security, financial intelligence and who else? We'll leave them now, you see, to calm down. What's there to calm down about? Ten percent of the deposits of Bulgarian citizens sank and they would be calm to work in peace because Nikolai Popov left. My fellow Members, I call on you to vote to postpone this point, not accepting the resignation, because this will be a very strong signal that we want to build Bulgarian institutions. We want to know what is happening in these Bulgarian institutions. We want to know what the situation is there and for this reason until we call Nikolai Popov himself, Stoyan Mavrodiev himself here and we do not understand what is going on, we will not accept any resignations and we will not accept any new people who have been appointed as vice-presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u15	- What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I did not intend to speak, but from the way you referred and quoted my name, I can tell you this. Where were you and where was your parliamentary group, if you represent it with this statement about the resignations that were thrown into the sector of security in your management? Can you tell me why Kalin Georgiev resigned? Why didn't you protect him? Toshko Todorov, who you know very well, left with him and worked very actively on the disclosure of VAT schemes that are being made in the sector of Security. I have to tell you that everything that has been done in the security sector you were silent then and left quality, valuable employees and turned the security sector into a service to certain political formations. What you are saying about Nikolay Popov, I would not like to comment on his professional qualities, but since you say, I appreciate your opinion of professionalism, of people you have spoken about. I can assure you that we have absolutely no bearing on his resignation and that he has deposited his resignation. I think he should answer whether there was pressure or not. What has been said by Mr. Chobanov about some backstage activity, I can tell you that the Financial Supervision Commission has been managed for years by Stoyan Mavrodiev and if there was anything to concern his abuses, I believe that you were entitled to the parliamentary majority that you had just a few months ago, to resolve these problems and to make a real debate on the subject and to hear anyone who is concerned about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u17	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kadiev, my reply concerns your thesis on the responsibility of the Financial Supervision Commission regarding the crisis with CCB. In the public domain, you have developed this thesis many times without specifically stating what is the responsibility of the Financial Supervision Commission, in whose supervisory competence banking institutions are explicitly excluded, as well as banking transactions. It seems to me that we are designing mass responsibility here, provided that the two supervisory authorities...................................... and the Financial Supervision Commission.. have a very strict distinction of their supervised functions. If there is a bankruptcy of KTB, it is not a bankruptcy of an investment firm. Yes, the situation is severe, the consequences are serious, I don't want to massize the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u19	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u20	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I am not competent to talk about the subject of security. I've never been in it, I've avoided expressing my opinion. I don't know why Mr. Kalin Georgiev resigned, I don't know if he's a good employee. Nikolai Popov, I know him personally for that reason. I also know Toshko Todorov personally and I believe that he is an extremely quality employee when he was at the National Revenue Agency. Should I remind you that he left the NRA at your time when he did not agree with Krasimir Stefanov and went as an advisor to Kalin Georgiev? I don't know what he was doing there anymore. This is the Security Sector. When he was in the NRA, I knew him and he was a quality employee. Why did you let him leave the NRA? Because you didn't deal with Krasi Stefanov. What happened to Krasi Stefanov, where is he now? And that's not clear. What was his role in what was happening at the NRA? And that's not clear. Let's put this stuff aside. It's not about Stoyan Mavrodiev's personality. It is not important whether he was a member of GERB, whether he wrote a law for himself and so on, it is important whether the institution works. Is the C.F.R.U. working today? No, it doesn't work! The institution Financial Supervision Commission has been turned into a sole trader. Mr. Kirilov, you are telling me here that they are not a supervised entity. Yes, they are not responsible for the banking activities of CCB, but they are responsible for a number of other lines. Even the fact that the license of the investment firm KTB has not yet been revoked. The bank went bankrupt, and at the same time still has an investment firm license. How does this work? Why didn't the C.F.R. get together to take away their license for so long? What did they do for four or five months? Where did Stoyan Mavrodiev go? He went to Cyprus last week to discuss how to get out of the crisis according to the Cypriot banks' experience. Last week! [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] What did they do for four months? What was the role of the Financial Supervision Commission in this whole thing? Of course, the main responsibility lies with BNB and Bank supervision. I look forward to their resignations as well. I don't know what's going on out there, why don't we want them, why don't we call these people here? In this system of financial security and financial supervision there are several elements: one of them is BNB the most important in terms of banking numbers; the second is the Financial Supervision Commission; the third is financial intelligence; the fourth is DANS as an institution; the fifth is the Commission for Public Supervision of Auditors. These are all elements, and if one of them doesn't work, the whole machine doesn't work. This KTB drama showed this thing. The whole machine's collapsed from start to finish. How could five billion and six hundred million go down and have no clue? [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u21	Please do not engage in dialogue from the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u22	The Financial Supervision Commission, Mr. Kirilov, monitors the CCB on several lines under investment supervision; on the basis of the fact that they are bondholders that they are listed on the stock exchange; on the basis of the fact that they are trustees of bondholders. It's not all credit, they don't follow them through credit, but everything else follows them. The stock exchange has lost a billion and a half leva from the CCB crisis so far as total capital of all companies listed there. What do we answer to this thing? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Pension companies and trust funds have lost over 100 million leva, which are inside KTB. What do we answer to this thing? It's all our money and money for future pensioners, isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u23	Honourable Members, I would like to bring you back to the subject of discussion on the item on the agenda today, and this is the draft decision for termination due to resignation, without any particular reasons, the powers of Vice-President of the C.F.R. The activity of this committee may be the subject of debates in this House when a hearing is requested in due order, questions have been received and so on to the management. Let us not mix the two procedures as much as they have a relationship with each other, because it seems to me that we are going beyond the subject of the agenda today and of the draft decision that is the subject of our discussion. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the draft decision presented to you? I won't. There was a procedural proposal by Mr. Kadyev, which is within the meaning of art. 65, para. 1, t. 2, to postpone the point of next sitting. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's motion to postpone the voting point today. Voting mode. They voted 130 MPs: 27, against 52, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the draft decision on the early termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Board of Directors. They voted 136 MPs: 105, against 2, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u24	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u25	Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u26	Honourable Members, please re-vote! Let's protect the footage of this country, they're not that many. Mr. Nikolai Popov has resigned if you notice, without any motives at all, expressing in this way his protest of what is happening in the Financial Supervision Commission. Don't let this thing go on. I therefore ask you, let us vote against this, which is actually our sign that we understand what is happening and want to continue to build this institution. Let Mr. Popov come here to explain what is happening, let Stoyan Mavrodiev come to explain what is happening and then let's make these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u27	It's a rethink mode. They voted 137 MPs: 97 against 17, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. We move on to the discussion of: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CHANGE AGREEMENT AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION FUND ON THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE INITIATE JEREMIE IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE TALKING AGREEMENT AND COMPLIANCE OF THE FINANCIAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESITION FUND ON THE APPLICATION OF THE INITIVATIVE JEREMIE IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. There is a report from the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Before that procedure. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to invite the Minister of Economy Mr. Lukarski here in plenary to be aware of whether he really supports this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a form of ratification agreement that we need to sign or approve. This is about managing financial instruments, and possibly during the next programming period, the European Investment Fund will again manage these instruments if we accept this ratification at the moment. This ratification has been tabled by the caretaker government, ladies and gentlemen. It has no right to change politics. I have also negotiated with the European Investment Bank and the creation of a new fund, namely a mezzanine fund, which is not here in this agreement. Let the Minister of Economy come and explain whether he really stands behind the policy of the caretaker government, given that a caretaker government has no right to pursue politics. So I think it is imperative, even more so, that this agreement was tabled on 31 October 2014, and the government was voted on 7 November 2014. I think that the presence of the Minister of Economy is important, because it is a matter of very little money and perhaps to explain why it is so fast, because, on unconfirmed information, there are rumors that there is pressure on the part of the Presidency precisely to accept these funds in the way it is proposed here in the National Assembly. I personally, the Ministry, the Council of Ministers has introduced the 40th National Assembly, there is no time left to ratify a completely different agreement. What requires this change? I think it is important, and now there is a 30-minute rest, Madam President, that the Minister may come, but clearly and categorically state whether he and the government are in favour of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u29	A reverse opinion? Inverse opinion of this proposal? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the Reformation Block, we propose that this point be postponed for next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u31	Bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u32	In essence, there are two proposals. The first at the time is to invite the Minister of Economy to plenary, but because, by order of weight, if it is respected and adopted a decision to postpone the point, it is pointless to invite him. I will put to the vote first the proposal to postpone the item on the agenda. Vote 141 MPs: 122 against 9, abstention 10. The proposal has been accepted. The point has been postponed. Go ahead, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, from the parliamentary group of the party Ataka we are making a procedure to hold a hearing of the Interior Minister Mr. Vuchkov and the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Tsatsarov in connection with Philip Zlatanov's notebook. As you can see, there were two: one was black, the other was in Bordeaux. They're looking for each other and waiting for someone to plant them. We, as MPs, have that right and we are obliged to hold such a hearing. After all, it's about very, very serious things. The Home Secretary and the Attorney General have something to tell us. Madam President, I refer to art. 107 of our Rules and also of Art. 49, para. 5, that is, you, as President of the National Assembly, in situations that require this, can make such a point be included in our programme and hold this hearing. Parliamentary practice has also happened in other events concerning the public-political, judicial, legal relations in the Republic of Bulgaria, to make such hearings. Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party, we are proposing this. If it is necessary, the House to vote, but in our opinion, we must hold this hearing. There are many things that any parliamentary group can say. I understand that some of the parliamentary groups have already held press conferences, but let us, as MPs, not comment on the topic of press conferences, but here, from the parliamentary tribune where we belong.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u34	Dear Mr. Chukolov, you have rightly referred to art. 107, but you didn't follow his practice. A written request should be submitted to the National Assembly's case-law, which shall then be included on the agenda after a vote. At the moment there is no written request, or at least I have not been informed by the administration of the National Assembly, which is why I have no way to take account of the request made by your platform. The next item on the agenda is: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CONVENTION FOR THE CONVENTATION OF A EUROPEAN UNIVERSITY INSTITUTE, REFERRED TO IN THE FLORATION OF 19 APRIL 1972, CHANGED WITH THE REVISION CONVENTION OF 18 june 1992 Report on the first vote of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u35	Madam President, honourable Members! I asked for the floor for a procedural proposal. Please, on the basis of art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be allowed in the Chamber the presence of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mr. Nikolay Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u36	Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Is the Deputy Minister here? The Quaestors, if he's here, invite him to the hall. We're listening to your report now, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u37	{\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Convention on the Foundation of the European University Institute, signed in Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Revision Convention of 18 June 1992, No 402-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2014. At its meeting held on 5 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Foundation of the European University Institute, signed at Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Revision Convention of 18 June 1992, No 402-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2014. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science: the Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Rumyana Kolarova, Mr. Stoycho Stoychev, Head of Staff of the Minister of Education and Science, and Mr. Lyubomir Yosifov, Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education and Science. The bill was presented by the Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Rumyana Kolarova. The European University Institute in Florence, Italy was established in 1972 on the basis of an international agreement signed by four Member States of the European Union. So far, the member states that signed the Convention are a total of 21. The Institute offers a one-year Master's degree programme in the field of legal science, doctoral programs and research in history and civilization, economic, political and legal sciences. By joining the Convention, each Party shall expressly assume the responsibility to recognise diplomas issued by the European University Institute. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European University Institute will create additional opportunities for young people from the country to study and conduct research work at one of the prestigious institutes in Europe in the field of public and humanities. The Convention on the Foundation of the European University Institute is an intergovernmental agreement to which the Council of Ministers proposes Bulgaria to join. The initiative of the Ministry of Education and Science for Bulgaria's accession to the Convention has been for 7 years, but until now it has not come to ratification. Currently, the European University Institute grants scholarships to the Bulgarian doctoral students and students who are at his expense. The total amount to be paid by Bulgaria as an annual contribution is approximately 82 thousand. Euros. Separately paid depending on the number of doctoral students additional fee. The European University is the most prestigious institution in which lawyers, economists, sociologists and others specialize in social and political sciences. The Minister of Education and Science pointed out that each Member State has the right to an equal vote on one, regardless of its contribution.The contributions made are not equal to more than 80% of the budget of the European University Institute is formed by four countries - Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. Mrs. Kolarova argued the importer's opinion that Bulgaria's accession as a member of the European University Institute would contribute to the development of the country in the field of science and education and its authority in these areas. The importance of this membership, according to Mrs. Kolarova, could only be compared to that of CERN, which costs 5 million. Euros. Similarly, as in CERN, practice would also be established to send teachers to courses to improve the qualification at the European University Institute, which would be of great benefit to improve the quality of education in the country. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, Mr. Dimitar Delchev and Mr. Svilen Ivanov. The MPs asked the following questions: what are the costs outside the fee of 82 thousand. EUR and by whom they are paid; what is the way to determine the doctoral students; what would be the consequences if Bulgaria did not join and whether Bulgarians would be able to apply in this case and who would represent the state in the High Council. Mrs. Rumyana Kolarova explained that 16,000 is paid. EUR per person, and training costs far exceed that amount. All expenses shall be paid by the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. The admission competition at the European University Institute is held in Florence. According to Mrs. Kolarova, there will hardly be a chance for Bulgarians to be trained in the European University Institute in the future if the Convention is not ratified. The state will be represented at the European University Institute by the Minister of Education and Science. After a discussion, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs with 19 votes in favour, signed at Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Revision Convention of 18 June 1992, No 402-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2014.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Debates are open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u39	Honorable Madam President of the National Assembly, esteemed high esteemed representatives of the people! We of the Patriotic Front, grounded with Euro-Atlantic values inspired by God's insight and enlightened by universal love, will support this ratification, as many others do. This ratification, in accordance with the information provided in the media, will enable 12 Bulgarian students to complete one-year Master's degree in the field of legal sciences, will enable doctoral programs and post-doctoral specializations in the field of history, economics, legal sciences and political sciences. It will cost us certain funds. I, however, as a historian, have an attraction to dates. The Convention was signed in the distant 1972, changed in 1992. Seven years, as the report said, are trying to join it. The media reported that such an experience was made five years ago in 2009, but because of financial problems this experience remained only an undertaking. All governments in this period and all political parties were baptized, declared, promised priority to be Bulgarian education, to be the qualification of Bulgarian youth. Today we will take a real step to make this come true. Only in the last five years we may have lost over 60 specializations of Bulgarian talented, capable students and PhD students. That is why we must take this step and we will take it. With this, I would like to conclude our declaration of support and express a personal opinion, a personal opinion that does not bind my parliamentary group. As an academic lecturer in New Bulgarian History, I always get embarrassed when politicians talk about history. I am impressed that the beginning of this National Assembly many people talk about history. I often say to my students: "When politicians talk about history, it is the surest sign of the weakness of these politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u40	- What's the line? I won't. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u41	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the Convention on the Foundation of the European University Institute was also discussed in the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Following its examination, the members of the Commission agreed that the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European University Institute would create an opportunity for training and conducting research work in one of the most prestigious institutes in Europe in the field of public and humanities. A vote was held after the discussion. Eleven Members of the Parliament were...... one against....... and one abstention........................................................................................ By this I would like to say that the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance supports our proposed Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. You have essentially presented us with the summary of the report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. It is my pass after the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs, but I did not see Mrs. Stoyanova in the Chamber and I did not realize that it is possible that a Commissioner would be ready to report. Thank you for that clarification. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! Out of doubt is the need for Bulgaria to participate at the highest level in the European educational institutions, sending there its scientists, researchers and specialists for qualification. I would like to draw attention to a fact which, I think, must be taken into account by the Minister of Education and the Ministry of Education in such proposals and procedures in the future, because some of the questions that I have met and which are put to the ministry's team, which has submitted the proposal, have a strong basis. Rather, it is about the additional costs imposed in connection with participation and, above all, the regulation and selection of staff that will go for preparation and training, as it is all about state funding. In the speech of a colleague from the Patriotic Front I heard the opinion that 12 lawyers should go to prepare there. In the report presented here for the first vote, there are no fixed quotas between lawyers, sociologists, political scientists and so on. The issue of Bulgaria's selection and participation in these educational levels is very important not for other reasons, but because often such initiatives become a field for deployment of almost private activities with the money provided by the state budget. In this case, if you're paying attention, it's 16 grand. EUR annual funding, which means that 20 students are 320 thousand, right? And the annual fee is 82,000. Euros. That is, it is quite possible that Bulgaria's education and participation in this university institute could come out about half a million leva a year. Therefore, I propose that, including the Minister of Education, when similar proposals are considered in the future, they be accompanied by a clearer mechanism for the forms, the way Bulgaria participates there and the benefits that we will have from these initiatives. Dozens are examples where state money is financed by specialization of Bulgarian researchers who then unfold their research work and teaching work in educational institutions that are not even on the European continent. Therefore, when we talk about educational policy with such high-pitched oaths at the beginning of the speeches, it is good that this educational policy should be oriented towards the Bulgarian society. When the Bulgarian state decides to allocate this money to participate in such a university institute, we should be aware of the benefits that we will have from the allocated funds. If this is a matter of the individual career of five, six or ten people, such initiatives will not violate the state budget, but this is not the way to improve education, the quality of education in Bulgaria and this is not the way to develop education. This is about a separate initiative. Okay, yeah, it's a great initiative on its own, but it's not educational policy. This is the ratification of a convention for the specialization of ten people per year at one of the European university institutes. That's what this is about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u44	- What's the line? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u45	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I don't think that when you declare your value system, you speak highly. Next, I stressed that these are data from the media that the quota for this year or for the next is 12 of our students. That's what it says. Open the sites and you'll see. I think I was right to express myself correctly on the basis of the media data. How it will be realized, what the selection will be. Of course, that this is the work of the ministry with clear, transparent and obvious criteria. It is clear that this is the path for the integration of our young specialists into the European academic and scientific space. It is natural that this will happen with government money! The history of Bulgarian higher education started with state money, honourable colleagues! I'm not talking about history.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u46	Second line? Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u47	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, a very short reply, mainly with clarification: the selection contest takes place at the European University Institute in Florence, i.e. regardless of the nationality of the candidates and their origins. The competition and the competition are held there. As far as the minister explained, I do not know whether the Deputy Minister entered the Chamber and whether he can make this clarification correctly, I am not sure about the quota...........................................................................................is exactly 12 people, but for the part shared by the Bulgarian budget,....the report....................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u48	Third line? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov, would you like to use the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u49	Honourable Members, the reference to media information when reporting and commenting on a report on the first vote of ratification in the National Assembly is not the most convincing argument. Secondly, selection, the objectives of the respective scholarships at the relevant university institute should be commitment, since it is 100% state funding! The Bulgarian State should have an attitude towards this, as a country that has signed the Convention and joined it! What projects do our researchers participate in, what is the contribution of these projects, because obviously it is about specialists in law, sociology, political science; about improving the legislative process, legislative activity in general in the Republic of Bulgaria?! What are those nationally important projects that these researchers go to develop, supplement, do, publish in this institute?! That is the point, I think, of such funding and of joining such a convention! Otherwise, it remains a private initiative - it is also good, it is worthy of respect and encouragement, nothing wrong with that, but the issue is that when public money is spent, it is in favor of the state! That's what I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. The Quaestors, invite them in. I put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Foundation of the European University Institute, signed in Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Convention on Revision of 18 June 1992. They voted 113 MPs: for 94, against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, it's a possible procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the Law on ratification of the Convention be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u52	I put to the vote the motion for a vote in a plenary sitting of the Passion Bill at first and second readings. First the procedural proposal, then essentially the second vote. Vote 117 MPs: 101 against 8, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Convention on the Foundation of European University Institute, signed in Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Revision Convention of 18 June 1992 A single member. Ratification of the Convention on the Establishment of the European University Institute, signed in Florence on 19 April 1972, as amended by the Convention on Revision of 18 June 1992 Statements? I won't. I submit at second reading the Law on ratification of the Convention. They voted 121 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 16. The proposal has been adopted and, therefore, at second reading, the ratification of the Convention. It's 11:00 a.m. I'm calling a break till 11:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u53	I ask the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to the plenary. The time for rest is over! I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. The meeting continues with the next item of our weekly programme: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE WORK OF ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS IN 2013 The report is discussed at a meeting of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs which has submitted its written opinion. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! Allow me before the presentation of the report to make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Administration in the Chamber of Georgi Kolev.. Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, and Mrs. Sonia Naydenova.. representing the Supreme Judicial Council. In relation to the two reports on this and the following point, I use the case to suggest that the presence of Prof. Lazar Gruev, Chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u55	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u56	Thank you. "COMMODITY" of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs on the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2013, No 430-00-1, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 October 2014. At a meeting held on 11 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2013. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Kolev, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court; Mrs. Sonia Naydenova, representing the Supreme Judicial Council, and Mrs. Juliana Koleva, Member of the Supreme Judicial Council, Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs at the Supreme Judicial Council. The report was presented by Mr. Georgi Kolev, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court. The report shall be submitted for consideration in accordance with the provisions of art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 122, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. To illustrate the achievements, problems, assessments and conclusions, judicial statistics have been used. The report summarizes data on the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court in tabular form. Mr. Georgi Kolev outlined the priority activities and objectives for further development of the Court of Justice with a view to more effective and faster justice, ensuring equal access to justice for all citizens, increasing the trust in the work of the Court of Justice and improving the qualification of magistrates and judicial officers. In 2013, the Supreme Administrative Court celebrated the 100th anniversary of its establishment. In order to implement one of the main priorities of the VAS, in October a contract was signed between the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" and VAS for the implementation of a single legal information system. Rules have been drawn up for the formation of the three-member, five-member and seven-member Chambers, as well as for the replacement of absent Judges and Chairs of Chambers. In order to ensure transparent justice, it also contributes to improving the application practice in each case of a printout of the protocol for random selection of a rapporteur. In 2013, 17 187 administrative cases took place in the Supreme Administrative Court and were essentially 17 169, of which 15 364 were resolved within one month. There is a tendency to increase the number of cases received compared to the previous 2012, in which 15 718 cases took place and 16 367 cases were closed. The total number of cases examined in 2013 in the SAC was 21 955 with 899 more than the number examined in the previous year. 89% of the cases are closed within the one-month period for the decision. In 2013, the workload of a VAC judge amounted to more than 220 cases per year. This workload makes it difficult to carry out one of the main priorities of the Court of Justice to issue interpretation decisions in order to align administrative justice. To address this problem, an optimal distribution of cases between administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court is proposed by changing the conviction and setting up a Central Administrative Court to take part of the first instance cases dealt with by the Supreme Administrative Court. In 2013, 86 judges were appointed, three judges retired, 7 new judges were appointed, and 11 were seconded by other courts. The report shall provide summary information on the number of cases which have been initiated and carried out by a five-member and a seven-member group, as well as by their colleagues and wards. In the accounting year 2013, the SAC raised 7 cases of requests for interpretation decisions. There are 2 orders for termination of cases and 3 interpretation decisions on requests made by the Ombudsman and the Prosecutor General. The report provides summary information on the activities of the administrative courts in 2013 and also on the personnel security in them. It should be noted that the overall trend for increasing the number of incoming cases and also the number of completed cases is maintained. The average monthly workload of administrative judges in the Administrative Court is the largest (58.03 pcs. cases monthly), Administrative Court of Justice of Burgas (40 cases per month), Administrative Court of Justice of Pernik (38,46 cases per month), Administrative Court of Justice of Plovdiv (26,94 cases per month), Administrative Court of Justice of Blagoevgrad (24,60 cases per month), Administrative Court of Justice of Veliko Tarnovo (23,27 cases per month) and Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia-district (20 cases per month). With the slightest workload are the Administrative Court of Justice of Yambol (7,96 cases per month); Administrative Court of Justice of Razgrad (8,67 cases per month); Administrative Court of Justice of Gabrovo (8,72 cases per month). During the reporting period, part of the administrative courts worked in reduced composition due to secondment to you or due to the use of extended leave. A number of administrative courts of annual regional seminars on pre-coordinated topical topics are developing as good practice. The reports take into account international activities, trainings and projects of administrative courts. The project "Increasing transparency and efficiency in the work of the Association and the project "Increasing the competence of judges, judicial assistants and judicial officers of the SAC and administrative courts" has been developed before the 2013 accounting year. The project provides for the development of strategic documents on the effectiveness of the financial management and control system, on the introduction of good practices for regulating the workload of judges and on improving their qualifications. A Communication Strategy of YOUS has been prepared, its website has been updated and the implementation of the Single Legal Information System has started. In 2013 an active activity related to international cooperation, training, design and implementation of projects was reported. A number of judges from the administrative courts took part in trainings on various projects and programmes held in Bulgaria and abroad. A significant number of administrative courts have developed and implemented projects co-financed by the European Union through the European Social Fund. A number of proposals for legislative changes to the Administrative Procedure Code and other special laws have been made in a separate structural part of the report, leading to more effective and rapid justice. Their aim is to unload the Supreme Administrative Court as a first instance court so that it can be established as a cassation authority and strengthen its constitutionally defined activity for issuing interpretive decisions. Such changes will further burden administrative courts and they will work with full capacity, and changes to local defendants are proposed to avoid uneven loading of courts. Specific proposals have been made on the summoning, involvement of interested parties, the time limit for the ruling of the administrative body, the judicial proceedings, the promulgation of the judgment on the annulment of a regulation, regulation of state fees and the conviction under the DCC. Mr. Kolev stressed that it is necessary to change the legislation regarding the jurisdiction in tax matters, and their examination is assigned to all administrative courts and not only to five of them, as is the current regulation. Ms. Sonia Naydenova stressed that despite the workload of the administrative judges with a view to judicial cases and with a number of additional activities, their temporary ruling on cases, which is not at the expense of the quality of the decrees, orders Bulgaria at one of the top places in speed in the European Commission's report. Ms. Juliana Koleva voiced strong support for the proposal on the need for a change in the conviction in the handling of the cases under the DPC, stressing that the distribution of cases between the 28 courts will result in both the unloading of the five most busy courts and the return of the administrative justice in the vicinity of the tax entities. People's representatives Filip Popov, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Svilen Ivanov, Dobromir Prodanov and Danail Kirilov took part in the discussion. Following the discussion the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs made the following findings and recommendations regarding the activities of administrative courts, as well as the preparation of the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2013 and subsequent years: 1. The report is drawn up in accordance with the Law on the Judiciary and the requirements of the Supreme Judicial Council. The same reflects the main problems to be addressed in subsequent reporting periods. A high activity of the Supreme Administrative Court has been established for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union. 2. It proposes strengthening the interpretation activity of the Supreme Administrative Court, which is among the main priorities in order to harmonise the practice in the various areas of law enforcement and improve the quality of law enforcement. 3. As the most important problems for the activities of the courts in the reporting periods are the workload and uneven distribution. Seemingly from the data provided, efforts shall be made to carry out quality justice within reasonable time limits. Those efforts should also continue in the coming years, taking the necessary internal organisational and other necessary measures to address burden-related and uneven distribution problems. 4. Takes a positive view on the proposal for legislative changes made in relation to the defendant in the handling of cases under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code (APC). After the vote was taken, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for abstentions, without abstentions, adopted the Report on the application of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2013, No 430.01 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 29 October 2014, and proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision on its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u57	Present the project, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Project" DECISION on the adoption of the Law Implementation Report and on the the activities of the administrative courts; 2013 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 30, para. 1, t. 14 of the Judicial Law R-E-S-E: 1. Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2013 2. Offers attention to the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Supreme Administrative Court the findings and recommendations contained in the opinion of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. This was the report of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs presented by its President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I open the debate, is there anyone willing on behalf of the importers? You will also have the opportunity during the discussion if there are questions for you. Anyone? I won't. I'm opening the debate. Parliamentary groups have the right time. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u60	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Minister, honourable magistrates! I listened with interest yesterday during the work of the committee, the Report of the Presidents of the Supreme Administrative and Supreme Court of Cassation. I got involved in the debate. I have heard many useful things, and for the last time I have been convinced that judicial reform is really necessary and pressing. It is imperative because what citizens expect from us, namely, accessible and fast justice, cannot happen without the realization of judicial reform. I am convinced that this reform is also going through in-depth consultations with representatives of the Magistrates and hearing of their position, because, colleagues, at least for me, it is absurd to expect a magistrate within a month to consider over 130 cases. It's bordering on the impossible. Imagine when the magistrate in question will hold a meeting, when he will listen to the parties, when he will write his decision. One hundred and thirty-more cases within a month are forced to examine the judges of the Sofia District Court and other courts, the number is also similar dizzyingly large. The other major problem, which has the bad material base in some courts, also contributes to slow justice and not quality. If we expect magistrates to work well, we must think about how they work in normal, I would say human conditions. It is absurd to expect a magistrate to rule quality by having to be housed in one office with six other colleagues, and the cabinet is intended for one person. You can imagine what a madhouse this is all about. I will support the proposal for a decision which was read by the President of the Temporary Commission. I believe that in the coming days there will be enough opportunity to think about the reform itself in substance and to reopen the debate on this subject, but perhaps in this way, reading carefully the reports of the Presidents of the two Supreme Courts, we can set a start to the subject and really start working actively to implement judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Anyone? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the sitting, we were actually debating the entire report of the judiciary and the issue was also raised with the speed of the proceedings and, of course, the problems that arose before them. We were given detailed answers. I would like to draw attention to just two things that I personally am very interested in and I think will be good. That is, to enable us to discharge the Supreme Administrative Court, which, apart from justice, deals with both methodology and interpretation decisions, international contacts and links, by transferring some of the DCC's conviction to the courts that are in the country. I will therefore repeat the sentence that the honourable President has already said, but it has been discussed in detail in the committee, namely the strong support that the people who were there expressed for the proposal on the need for a change in the conviction in dealing with the cases of DPKI and, of course, we stress that the distribution of cases between these 28 courts will result in the unloading of the five courts currently dealing with this activity, and also the return of administrative justice close to those tax entities who are currently traveling hundreds of kilometers in order to protect their rights. I also propose that we listen to the representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council, who could defend this thesis, because this is a decision that they have long considered among themselves. The system is developing and this is an opportunity to give people the right to obtain better justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council may take the floor whenever they deem it necessary. Are there any lines to Mr. Dimitrov's statement? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Mr. Kolev! This is another report by the Supreme Administrative Court, submitted through the Supreme Judicial Council on the work of administrative courts and the opportunity to be convinced once again that there is indeed a modern system of administrative justice in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, the problems seem to be repeated by a report in a report and undoubtedly one of them is related to the workload of judges in several courts in the country and in the Supreme Administrative Court itself and the resulting inability to administer justice quickly enough and for the quality of judicial acts. There is really no way in the case of a burden of over 100 cases of a judge to expect him to be correct in his ruling on every case. Yes, two are possible solutions. One is through legislative changes and changes not only in the DCC, which would centralise the examination of tax cases in all administrative courts, but also the possible consideration of changes to unload the Supreme Administrative Court at least from the cases it sees as a first instance. It is normal for the Supreme Court to be a court in the case, not on the facts, to have more opportunities for interpretation and for uniformity of practice. I am glad that for the first time in all the parliamentary groups there are voices to support such proposals, because we have tried both in the previous and in the previous Parliament to adopt such texts. We partially managed and to some extent landed the capital Administrative Court of some categories of cases. This tax administration would indeed be a bolder step with all the risks it leads to, namely the parcelling of practice by regions and the possibilities for regional impact in solving one or other tax cases, but with all the risks obviously such a step should be taken. However, I think that not everything has also been done by the Supreme Judicial Council in terms of the more equal distribution of cases or, more precisely, the workload of judges from different courts. This, except through legislative action, could also be achieved through administrative measures, including by increasing the state for magistrates who are law enforcement in more busy courts, not only by secondment and reduction of state where, literally within a month, judges decide on ten, twenty cases. Because there's this. In this way, on the one hand, citizens' right to fast, accessible and quality justice will be defended, and on the other hand, we will be more correct towards magistrates, to whom, as if, the whole society and politicians have constant claims, and at the same time we do not provide them enough conditions for calm and normal work. I would also like to draw attention to another problem, which is not formally related to the reports of the courts, but in practice concerns and affects the interests of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. This is the problem with implementing judicial acts, especially administrative ones. Then, when the action or obligation of the act in question must be carried out by a state institution, by a municipality, by a commission, even by the Bulgarian National Bank, as there have been, we are witnessing cases where this is delayed or simply not happening. Further legislative changes may be needed to address the final phase of the trial, namely the implementation of the judgments given. But this is a line to fellow MPs, and also to, of course, senior magistrates who could be useful in considering such changes. We will support this report. Our parliamentary group will submit relevant proposals for changes to DODK and APK. We hope to meet support in their development and in their adoption by the Members of the National Assembly from other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened with interest to Mrs. Manolova's statement. However, what I did not understand from him is why, in the previous term, when the BSP had a majority, did not support these changes, which, as she herself said, and the reports present the presidents of the supreme courts once again, if I correctly quote it? That is, Mrs. Manolova, at that time you had all the power and the opportunity to support such legislative changes, to assist the landing of the supreme judges and at all as the integrity of the overloaded courts in the system, but, unfortunately, you did not then do this thing. Here, we now intend to support it from the Reformation Bloc, perhaps also colleagues from GERB and the Patriotic Front, and it will happen because, as you yourself pointed out, it is also supported by the representatives of the judiciary. Politicians are practically on the move right now. So that's my line to you. It was a nice thing in the past when you had the real opportunity and the power to do it, and not now just looking for political dividends, saying what was good to do. It's nice, yes, but it was even better if it was done by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u68	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Manolova! Not so much as a reply, but rather as an attempt to continue thinking about your proposal to implement the judicial decisions of administrative courts, I would like to point out that the rules are also strict now, quite severe are sanctions in respect of administrative authorities which do not implement the decisions entered into force. But as we speak in a positive way, I would also like to take occasion in this direction and say the following. I wish that there would be fewer and fewer complainants in relation to individual administrative acts of state or local authorities, i.e. administrative courts to unload, simply because the quality of compliance by administrative authorities has increased, i.e. to have a higher degree of satisfaction of citizens, organisations and individuals from the exact and strict application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u69	Thanks again. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u70	Dear Mr. Slavov, it is not bad before you make speeches from the parliamentary tribune and replicate, inform and learn what has happened in previous parliaments on the subject. The fact that you were not present is clear, but there are parliamentary transcripts. In addition to how a regulation has been amended, there is history in all the information systems available to lawyers, lawyers and, in my opinion, all the administration employees. If you had done this before you replicated me, you would surely know that changes have been made in the previous Parliament, which have also landed the Supreme Administrative Court, and the Sofia Administrative Court, with a change in the conviction of many cases, as a result of which the workload of these courts has changed. By the way, Mr. Kolev is here and he can confirm my words that what was possible to be undertaken, what he met consensus, was done, as a matter of fact, with the active cooperation of the lawyers in all the parliamentary groups and we, and colleagues from GERB, and those from the other parliamentary groups. I mean, what could have been done without serious resistance was done. We've changed the conviction into maybe 20-30 laws, so let's unload the busiest courts. The issue is with the courts that are looking at the D.O.D.K. cases. And here you will see what will happen when these texts enter the Chamber. Because there's also a "for" and a "a" against. One disturbing moment is indeed with the plotting of the rulings in tax matters. It is about very serious interests and concerns that it is easier to influence a regional court than the Supreme or several courts have their reasons. But this debate is coming. We will also see how you will convince your fellow Members from their own parliamentary group that this will ensure more objectivity, impartiality, lack of impact on judges and, I will say it directly, less corruption practices. So that's one problem. The other problem with the landing of the Supreme Administrative Court as a first instance of the Supreme Administrative Court has relevant obstacles in the Bulgarian Constitution. In any case, since you have suffered serious constitutional reforms, we may have touched these texts together, but in the previous parliament, due to the ratio of forces, it was impossible to come up with changes in the Constitution. It was not changed in the previous parliament, when a majority had GERB, it was not opened at all, as it did not come to the testament two thirds for changes in constitutional texts. What was possible to be done with the will of the BSP Parliamentary Group was done and to be precise, I will say: with the will of the lawyers of all parliamentary groups. So before you make such indictments, it's not bad to inform yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. [[Reply from the People's Representative Petar Slavov: "Personal explanation."]] She can't because she responds to your line. She is obliged to mention your name to make it clear that this is about you. Mr. Kolev, would you like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Legal Committee in which yesterday's hearing was held for the extremely serious and competent attitude towards the problems that I have raised and which are contained in the Report on the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and the administrative courts in the country. Yes, indeed, in the current debate, which also expresses an extremely serious attitude, the problems that should be resolved in a regulatory way have also been addressed. First of all, this is indeed the so-called.............................................. This problem has been repeatedly posed and has not found its solution, but for me it does not matter, however it should remain in the past. Today I see an extremely serious attitude and the question is what will be decided in the future. I believe that you will succeed one way or another to find a solution for this. I have the views of almost all magistrates, not only chairmen of courts, and not only those courts that are currently dealing with tax cases, all others are willing to look at them, welcome this idea. I can safely point out the only problem that has been exposed to me in relation to these changes. This is the time frame which, for the judges and the magistrates of the Supreme Administrative Court, who will deal with these cases, will be extremely narrowed, but this will be a temporary phenomenon, as the nomination of these cases will not change. That's the question. And, of course, the training system of colleagues who have not dealt with these cases so far. However, this is not a problem because we regularly organize different forms of training, including seminars and lecture courses for all colleagues. This will be done as long as this change is a fact. Indeed, the load of the Supreme Administrative Court of a magistrate is more than acceptable. The report makes a serious finding of an increase in the interpretation activity. Yes, it is one of the main duties of the Supreme Administrative Court and of each supreme institution. The amendment to the conviction of specific cases would lead to precisely an increased resource, to deal with precisely this typical activity of ours. As for constitutionally defined powers regarding the Supreme Administrative Court's conviction, we have no objections there, but let us not forget that there are many laws. I quoted them, they are a significant number, including all regulators, the acts of regulators in which the conviction is defined in the relevant law as the first instance of the Supreme Administrative Court and it is not defined in the Constitution. It was about them. We could quickly and effectively, and I see that there is an agreement on this issue, expressed in this House, to change things. Thank you very much for this attitude. Thank you for seeing the problems of administrative justice and you are determined to solve them over time. There's no way this is going to happen so quickly and effectively. We are all aware of it, including myself and fellow magistrates, but the point is to go this way. I think that's what's gonna happen. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think it is appropriate to raise the curtain a little today and tell ourselves some truths that should be said, because it is no secret that one of the portfolios in which Bulgaria is most criticised is a judge of justice and the judiciary. Somehow, we are very lightly accepting a report which, in my opinion, is only filled with statistics. However, honourable Members, I cannot be dissatisfied with increasing the workload of the courts, provided that the Bulgarian citizen is increasingly educated and will increasingly seek and defend his rights in the relevant court. Is it wrong for citizens to learn to defend their rights? It is from this point of view that there is no way not to increase the workload of the courts, but here is not paying attention, in my opinion, to two main directions. The first direction is: the effective work and attestation of the judges themselves. To be precise and clear, I will also give concrete examples. In order to remove the workload of the judges, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision in which it introduced the so-called legal interest, which practically deprived the Bulgarian citizens of challenging a large part of the decisions of the municipal councils. In fact, these Bulgarian citizens, who are the principal in a municipality as voters, turn out that they cannot exercise judicial control. Especially when it comes to a decision concerning an order of municipal property. For example, case No 29-25 in the Burgas Administrative Court, which is a textbook case, the administrative judge had seven months to set up a meeting after a meeting, a sitting after a sitting because it was very busy, and on the seventh month to come up with a definition that the applicant, if you see, had no legal interest. However, this same judge somehow strangely failed to comply with the Administrative Procedure Code and to carry out a formal examination of the nullity and legality of the relevant decision. Naturally, how there will be no burden then of the Supreme Court, as a literate citizen very clearly will appeal to the Supreme Court. But there's something here that's called a vice. For seven months, this judge is playing courthouse so that he can then punish the citizen by charging him to pay some serious fees to legal advisors for simply coming here and doing nothing. This is a vice in the justice system! Yes, you should not just touch the relevant laws, you need a very serious judicial reform. Yes, I agree with you, Mrs. Manolova, that constitutional changes must be made. Citizens cannot be deprived of the right to judicial review of a decision of the municipal council. This same council, which I repeat, has been chosen precisely by these citizens. Personally, I will abstain from this report for one simple reason that it does not address the fundamental problems, for example, with regard to the administrative cases relating to the DCC. There is a serious problem when the companies concerned need to appeal audit acts relating to the charging of a tax credit. It even turned out that the European Court of Justice's ruling on this case was read in a coup d'état. What's weirder is that I'm giving you an example in which different administrative judges in the same case make different decisions. Is that normal?! And such cases in the caselaw are hundreds, if not thousands. By the same case in ten different courts, for example, seven different judgments are taken. In my opinion, these are the main things to be paid very serious attention to and to have a really effective reform of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there lines? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u76	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Centre, I would like to say that we will support the report on the activities of administrative courts in 2013. I allow myself, within the speaking time of a parliamentary group, to draw attention to the negotiating colleagues, we are currently debating the Administrative Courts Report. We will have time in the next item to examine the Report of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Courts in Bulgaria, but with regard to the administrative administration, I believe that in recent years the Bulgarian judicial system and case-law have gone very important, correct and decisive steps towards being in favour of the Bulgarian citizens. I believe that this report is sufficiently concrete and correct. In principle, I oppose the possibility of commenting on certain cases. I ask you to bear in mind that there are always two sides to litigation, one is always dissatisfied and very often seeks reasons in magistrates. I believe that out of this highest tribune we should also say a thank you to the hundreds of Bulgarian magistrates who honestly and diligently apply the law and very often work, believe me, under horrifying conditions. What I allow myself to draw attention to is the need for greater transparency in the distribution of cases. The Bulgarian public wants and wants to know how they are distributed, that is to say whether the really so-called "successful principle" is always respected. Once again, I say that, on behalf of our parliamentary group, we will support this report. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Unconditionally to the judiciary we all have claims and there is hardly any Bulgarian citizen who does not express these claims, on the other hand, and the signals that come from the European Commission also say that we need to be critical enough. In fact, from the entire judicial system perhaps to the part that deals with administrative matters, we could have the least claim. It seems the most orderly, it has created an opportunity for citizens to correct the mistakes that are made in the relevant institutions and to defend their rights and interests. Of course, administrative courts are also the arena in which these institutes also defend their rights and through them the rights of citizens of a given community. We will certainly vote in favour of the report with the conclusions made in it, but I would like to add to what has been said so far about the need for changes in the possibilities of individual administrative courts to deal with the cases which are in a given territory. Unconditionally there must be made changes, they are primarily organizational, evaluating, and, of course, the efforts being made to create normal working conditions for these courts. However, I would like to draw attention to all of us as MPs, but also to the magistrates from the administrative courts, that this system deals with cases relating to the award of public procurements. I do not know whether we are aware that in Bulgaria there is a group of citizens who are engaged in the profession of eternal complaints, including with regard to the conduct of public procurement. The inability to decide quickly at second instance the claims of these so-called "shamebars" often lead to delays and to the loss of the use of significant funds granted to municipalities, to various non-governmental organizations, to various other state institutions that can operate with them. I therefore believe that we should also consider, in this regard, a change in the legal framework and, on the other hand, a reduction in the time limits in which these complaints have passed through the CPC, and whether they should all be in you, whether they should be redistributed. We will vote for the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Yanakieva. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Who wants to take the floor? There aren't any. Dear Members of Parliament, there are problems with the quorum in the Chamber, please take your seats. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. We are about to vote on the draft decision presented to us by the President of the Temporary Commission. We are voting on a draft decision adopting a report on the implementation of the law and on the activities of administrative courts in 2013. Voted 103 MPs: 101, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next point of our weekly program, which is point seven: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2013 Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council, 3 November 2014. Who will present the report to the Commission? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, honourable Presidents of the Supreme Courts, Mrs. Naydenova, Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council! "COMMODITY" of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs on a report on the application of the law and the activity of The Courts in 2013, No 411-00-3, the Supreme Judicial Council was submitted on 3 November 2014. At a meeting held on 11 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs examined a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2013, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 3 November 2014. The meeting was attended by: Prof. President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, Mrs. Sonia Naydenova, Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, Mrs. Juliana Koleva, Member of the Supreme Judicial Council, Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and Mrs. Juliana Vasileva, Director of the Directorate of Justice and other specialized activities. The report was presented by Prof. Lazar Gruev. The same has been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 114, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. To illustrate the achievements, problems, assessments and conclusions of the report, judicial statistics have been used. The report is annexed and summarised in tabular and graphical form data on the activities of district, district, appeals and military courts, as well as that of specialised courts. In particular, the report shall contain the following data. In total, the cases for examination in all courts without the ICC in 2013 were 704 246 or 39,744 units (5,34%), less than those in 2012. The cases were 583,825 and decreased compared to 2012, by 5,88%. The completed cases within three months total 485 707 or 8% less than last year. They also reduced the cases closed by a legal act in substance.. 494 285 or 6.7% less compared to 2012. The number of other cases not completed at the end of the year was 120 421 and the ones terminated in 2013 were 89 540. On the basis of these statistics, the Report for the reporting period concluded that the courts in the Republic of Bulgaria, although with a slight decline in the proceeds, were law enforcement in the conditions of continued workload and with a constant trend for speeding up the court proceedings and improving the quality indicators of work. The report contains data on the workload of judges, according to which in 2013 the actual workload of judges in the cases for examination was 32,31 cases, indicating a decrease of 6,94% compared to the previous reporting period. The actual workload of the judges in the district courts to the cases for examination was 36.47, which is a reduction of 6.02 per cent compared to 2012. Among the judges in the district courts in the district centers are formed three groups compared to the workload of up to 40 cases per month, or the largest group, the courts with a workload of up to 50 cases per month and those with a workload of more than 50 cases per month, such as in 2013 are the courts in Sofia, Burgas, Varna and Pernik. The other district courts also include three groups: with a low workload of up to 30 cases per month per judge; with an average workload of 30 to 40 cases per judge per month; with a high workload of over 40 cases per judge per month. The average workload of judges in district courts indicates that in 2013 it was 15.28 per person's share, which marked a slight decline compared to 2012. ? 16,64 cases. And here it is possible the division of three categories of district courts: with a high workload from 11 to 20 cases per month per judge; with an average workload from 7 to 11 cases per month per judge; and with a low workload less than 7 cases per month by a judge, the ones in Kardzhali, Montana and Targovishte. An exceptional workload is registered only at the Sofia City Court (Sofia City Court) 42,66 pieces per judge. The average actual monthly workload of the appeals courts was 8,64 cases, or close to the data for the previous reporting period. The highest workload was observed in the Appeals Court of Sofia, 12,04 cases in the Appeals Court of Varna, 8.48 cases and the least charged were the judges of the Military Appeals and Appeals Specialized Criminal Court. On the basis of the above, the report shall show the significant unevenness in the workload of the individual types of courts, as well as that between the equal courts of the different judicial areas. As regards the quality of the judicial activity in criminal matters, the 2013 Accounting Report indicates that the subject of a cassation check was 616 judicial acts in criminal cases handed down by the appeals courts. Of these, 381 or 62% were left in force, which decreased compared to the previous year (72,71%). As a result of a cassation check, the acts in 91 cases, which, in percentage terms, represented 14,7%, or by 3,13% more, compared to 2012. The Supreme Court of Cassation re-qualified a less punishable composition, reduced the penalty or applied art. 66 of the Penal Code in 73 cases, or just as many as are mentioned in the previous year. Sustainability has been observed in the number of cases in which the defendants are justified. 7 and the same number has been noted for 2012. There is also an estimated 100% increase in the number of county courts in the country, including the Sofia City Court, cases of cassation check from 227 in 2012, for the past 2013 it is 452. This is also a sign of the increased use of the power of the appeal authority to issue a new sentence. The Supreme Court of Cassation acquitted the defendants in a total of 5 cases of this group, confirmed all the appeals in 151 cases, and 67 cases returned for retrial. On the basis of the data presented, as the main priority of the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the uniformity of the caselaw is based on the objective of uniform application of procedural rules and substantive criminal rules, a fundamental means of interpretation. It is noted that the growth of the delayed cases is preserved and as the most common reason is shown the behavior of the representatives of the lawyer's office. However, significant progress has been made in terms of the temporaryity of the cassation proceedings. The main part of the cases has been dealt with and resolved within two months. The grounds on which the annulment or amendment of judicial acts is most often referred to are material procedural infringements. The Supreme Court of Cassation has, in the highest number of cases, returned cases due to violations of the evidence process and, next, the violations of the rules for amending the prosecution and the possibility that the court itself should apply a law on the same, uniform or less punishable crime. Comparatively less common is the incorrect application of substantive criminal rules. During the accounting year 2013, the subject of an examination before the Civil College of the Supreme Court of Cassation was 1358 judgments given by the Courts of Appeal. Of these, 96 cases, or 6,93% of the total number of decisions examined, were completely and returned. The new judgments of the Supreme Court of Cassation have been annulled entirely and handed down 104 or 7,5% of all the judgments examined. 169 judgments or 12.2% of all decisions examined were put into effect by 4.91% less compared to 2012. In the proceedings for applications for annulment of judgments in force, one was annulled and returned and two applications for annulment were left without respect. A total of 5304 court decisions by the Sofia City Court and the district courts were the subject of a cassation check. 935 decisions have been put into effect.. 17.63%. Cancelled and returned in accordance with the order of cancellation, according to art. Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303, Art. 303 304 of the GPC, total 12 decisions, and 69 applications for annulment are left without respect. The documents in 581 cases given by the district courts were also subject to verification. Six acts have been revoked completely and returned, and 12 acts have been put into effect. In the proceedings for applications for annulment of judgments entered into force, a total of 67 judgments of regional courts were annulled and 369 applications were rejected. In view of the above, it is concluded that there is a sustainability of the trend of the prevailing number of acts attacked before the Supreme Court of Cassation to be put into effect, which is a sign of a relatively high quality of the judicial activity of the courts in the Republic of Bulgaria. The number of confirmed judgments should be increased by increasing the interpretation of the Supreme Court of Cassation and uniformity of the caselaw. In 2013, the Commercial College of the Supreme Court of Cassation carried out a cassation check of a total of 2331 judgments of the appeals courts, of which 345 pieces or 15% were left in force. Cancelled and returned to the court of appeal shall be 7,16%, or 167 pieces. The cases dismissed and dismissed by the Supreme Court of Cassation are 82 and 13 are the partially annulled and resolved acts by the Supreme Court of Cassation. A total of 43 proceedings have been decommissioned and terminated. A total of 980 determinations were verified from private proceedings. The Supreme Court of Cassation ruled on one decision of the Court of Appeal, leaving the application without respect, in force, 705 pieces or about 10% less as compared to 2012. During the reporting period 46 cases of claims under art. 47 et seq. by the Law of International Commercial Arbitration. 1656 judgments of the Sofia City Court and the district courts were also the subject of a cassation check and their number marked more than a 100% increase compared to the previous year. Of the verified in 2013, 553 pieces or 33,39% were left in force. The whole and returned to be reopened are 117 copies, and the total and solved are 60 pieces of Disenforced Courts and suspended proceedings are 23 pieces. In the order of art. 303 and 304 of the GPC were subjected to 64 cases of Sofia City Court and District Courts and 63 judgments given by the district courts. In the part concerning the quality of the judicial activity in commercial matters, it is concluded that the examination of cases within a reasonable period of time should be put on the foreground, in order to overcome the tendency to delay the adoption of judicial acts. In the activity during the reporting period, the cases in which the legal regulation requires the same to be scheduled and resolved within time limits shorter by month and insolvency proceedings were priority. The sustainable trend for increasing the number of cases in which a decision is sought by the Commercial College remains apparent from the data presented. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). In analyzing the reporting information in full, it is emphasized on the same issues presented in the previous Reports, which were faced by the Bulgarian courts - not the same workload, insufficient material, building and personnel security. The problem of building security is illustrated by the presented examples of the inability to move Sofia District Court to the building of GUSW and the extremely difficult material conditions under which magistrates and the judiciary in Varna work. During the reporting period, competitions were held for judges at the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Courts of Appeal, the Specialized Criminal Court and the Regional Courts, on the basis of the rules adopted by the Supreme Judicial Council for the conduct of competitions for junior judges and junior prosecutors, for the initial appointment and for the promotion and transfer of judges, prosecutors and investigators. In this regard, it is also noted that the method of secondment of judges should not be used as a long-term solution to the problems of chamber gaps. In 2013 they successfully continued the implementation of the model of training of the National Institute of Justice, the exchange of magistrates through the European Network for Education of magistrates, as well as the training of Bulgarian judges in the respective programmes of the Academy of European Law. Progress has also been made with regard to information and technical provision and modernisation. The finalisation of the Single Crime Counteraction Information System and the activation of a centralised judiciary web portal for publication of all judicial decisions are described as examples in this field. During the reporting period, on the basis of orders issued by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, checks have been carried out on the organization and activities of the appeals courts in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas and Veliko Tarnovo for the period 2011-2012. The latter are aimed at analysing a number of indicators that are not covered by the inspection of the institutional control of cases and the results of them are highlighted in reports submitted to the Supreme Judicial Council. Moreover, attention was also paid to the active interpretation activity of the Supreme Court of Cassation in 2013. 25 interpretation cases have been initiated in order to ensure the exact and uniform application of the laws on civil, criminal and commercial matters. The latter notes a lasting trend towards an exclusive reference to acts of international law and European Union law, as well as to the caselaw of the Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union. The following discussion was attended by MPs Petar Slavov, Dimitar Lazarov, Maya Manolova, Yavor Haytov and Danail Kirilov. In the course of the discussion Mr. Slavov asked a question to Prof. Slavov. Gruev in this regard: has the new CPC procedural order facilitated the work of the Supreme Court of Cassation as one of the busiest in the country? Mr. Lazarov asked for an opinion: Have the annulment and amending acts of the VCC decreased due to the uniformity of the practice of the courts? Professor Gruev expressed his opinion that the new procedural law was not only aimed at reducing the workload of the VCC, but also the introduction of another important moment "representing the practice of the courts, which is the most significant guarantee of predictability of justice. This has also led to a significant reduction in the number of amending and repealing acts of the ICC. As a result of the adoption of the current GPC, the interpretation activity has been significantly activated, and maximum efforts are also being made by the Supreme Court to rule as soon as possible. Mrs. Manolova expressed her opinion that the Supreme Court of Cassation is no doubt active, including in relation to interpretation, and asked a question: what measures can be taken to address the problem of the slowness of judicial activity in the lower courts? Prof. Gruev and Mrs. Koleva stressed that overall this problem concerns mainly the Sofia District Court due to the great workload of judges and insufficient material, building and personnel security. Mrs. Koleva noted that measures have been taken in this regard, such as sanctioning individual judges to delay their assigned cases, providing for an additional number of judges from less busy judicial areas, and some of the problem is expected to be overcome by resolving material working conditions in the Sofia District Court. Mr. Kirilov said that the issues concerning the building security of the Sofia District Court and the Varna Judicial Region will be addressed to the Minister of Justice. I'm opening a clamp: Mr. Minister, thank you for your presence and participation in this discussion. He also expressed readiness in connection with legislative changes that will help further finance the judiciary budget. Following the discussion, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs made the following findings and recommendations in relation to the activities of the courts, as well as in relation to the preparation of the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activities of the Courts in 2014 and subsequent years: 1. The report is drawn up in accordance with the Law on the Judiciary and the requirements of the Supreme Judicial Council. The same reflects the main problems to be addressed in subsequent reporting periods. The detailed statistics presented not only in the text of the Report but also in graphic and tabular form clearly present the achievements and trends in the activities of the courts. 2. As the most significant problems for the activities of the courts in the reporting periods, the workload and uneven distribution of the courts are indicated. Seemingly from the data provided, efforts shall be made to carry out quality justice within reasonable time limits. Those efforts should also continue in the coming years, taking the necessary internal organisational and other necessary measures to address burden-related and uneven distribution problems. 3. Serious progress has been made in the interpretation of the Supreme Court of Cassation, in uniformising the practice in the various areas of law enforcement and improving the quality of law enforcement. After the vote was taken, the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 14 votes for the Council of the Supreme Judicial Council on 3 November 2014 adopted the Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2013, No 411-03 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council, and proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision on its adoption: Project! DECISION on the adoption of the Law Enforcement Report, and on the activity of the courts in 2013 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 30, para. 1, t. 14 of the Judicial Law HAS DECIDED 1. Takes note of the application of the law and of the activities of the courts in 2013. 2. It offers to the attention of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Supreme Court of Cassation the findings and recommendations contained in the opinion of the Temporary Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. My fellow Members, I think it is necessary to warn you that another vote is yet to come before you decide to leave the National Assembly building. Are there any interested importers who would like to take action before the discussions? I won't. Mr. Secretary, welcome. I'm opening the debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Slavov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, honourable magistrates! I have already succeeded, in my previous speech, in addressing some of the issues of workload, of poor working conditions in many courts, of the bad building fund, the lack of courtrooms and so on, all things that slow justice and which do not allow it to be quality. I will not repeat these things, and I will allow myself to draw the attention of fellow Members of the National Assembly to a peculiarity of civil court proceedings and in general to proceedings under the GPC and the proceedings under consideration by the Supreme Court of Cassation. It is about the so-called "reform" of 2007 and the introduced institute of admission of cassation appeal. Colleagues, given this peculiarity of the civil process, it is in fact so that the supreme judges have to consider twice the majority of their deeds. That is to say, once they rule on whether a case is to be admitted to a cassation appeal at all, they do so in closed session, and only after that, if they consider that it is subject to admission, shall they treat it openly with the call of the parties. This is purely practically the way it is expressed if, at the moment, the Supreme Court of Cassation is brought to the appeal, on the reference I have made, the closed admissions sessions for next year are already scheduled for the second half, which means that the hearing itself will essentially go to pó next year. This, colleagues, is obviously neither quick justice nor what Bulgarian citizens expect of us. Perhaps we should consider in this direction how to assist the Supreme Judges to avoid undue delay in the proceedings. Note that they are no less burdened by their colleagues at the Supreme Administrative Court who have over 200 cases per year. Here, because of this double consideration of the cases, it actually turns out that the workload is also greater. I am certainly in favour of the report's encouraging data for improvement of the interpretation work. This is definitely a way to align the case-law and better-quality decisions of the district, district and appeals courts. However, what I lack is progress in e-Justice. I will give you a very practical example of this scandal that has been raging in recent days with the missing notebooks, it might not have happened at all if, in practice, we had electronic justice and these physical evidence were not exported from the buildings of the judiciary at all, as by the way it should be. They should be there, there to work the belongings on them, respectively there should be electronic copies of these documents that they can use. One more thing I would like to address in relation to the interpretation work. In fact, the other great advantage of the interpretation of the Supreme Court of Cassation lately, especially the active interpretation, is that it is really starting to become an instance of law rather than the facts, or as I have heard here from the left in the case, which is actually not quite accurate, i.e. an instance of law. And actually, colleagues, it will end with what I started with. If we expect the magistrates to quickly, quality and justice, we really must make the necessary reforms and they must receive adequate working conditions, the workload to be distributed more evenly among them, not to be overloaded, to be able to really consciously and responsibly approach every case, and not to be forced to push it over. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u83	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there lines? There are no lines. Mr. Haytov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members, Dear magistrates, Honorable Professor Gruev, chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation! In fact, by analysing the report submitted for consideration, I would say that it is systematized in five points: first of all, the total cases for examination in all courts, the second one, the third one, the quality of the law enforcement activity in criminal cases, the fourth one, the Citizen's College of the VCC, the fifth one, the Chamber of Commerce of the ICC. However, honourable Members, I believe that since yesterday or today rather, an attempt has been made on the entire judiciary with a single criminal act, and it is the disappearance of an extremely important physical evidence, the so-called Philip Zlatanov Tefterche. After all, colleagues, what kind of justice should we talk about when we, and perhaps not we, who are in this room, but some have admitted that just like that, disappear, would I say, one of the most essential, the most important evidence in a process, the physical evidence that gained publicity like Zlatanov's notebook? I am very interested to hear from my colleagues, and the representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council, how can such important physical evidence be allowed to disappear and actually corrupt the entire process? Otherwise, from this tribune, I could say that the report has been measured. It is up-to-date, but no one can convince me that the disappearance of such evidence in such a noisy process, in such a case of extreme public interest, is not a stain on the entire system?! I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Are there lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen magistrates! I wouldn't want to take that line. Today, in today's debate, I have abstained on several occasions in this sense, but I can't help but replicate my colleague Haytov. I object to mixing the principled debate on the state, development, the prospects of the judiciary with a political conjuncture issue. I will allow myself from this tribune and in this line to share with Mr. Haytov, who has no way of knowing and remembering, but some of the colleagues here remember that we were members of a temporary committee, the so-called "Time Commission for the Notebook." In this Temporary Committee, part of the participants obviously looked and reasoned, and met somewhere with the book itself. The other part of the members, including me, despite the many insistences to draw conclusions on this supposedly important evidence of our public-political debate, we never saw, Mr. Haytov, the book in question. As MPs, we concluded insofar as other colleagues referred us to the media faximiles of the book in question. I don't want to go into any more detail on this matter, but I would say that I want and please remain at the level of the principled debate on the important issues of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u87	Thank you. That was a first line. Is there a second line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, for the back, if you like, of course. You don't want to. We continue with the speeches. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is the latest report on the activities of the courts that we are looking at, with the participation of President of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mr. Lazar Gruev. I think it would now be right to say a few good words about our cooperation and mutual work in recent years, which was expressed, except in the discussion of the annual reports on the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the courts in Bulgaria, but also in the serious work on a number of important for both the judiciary and Bulgarian citizens, bills. I can't help but say on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, that with such a chairman the Supreme Court of Cassation has really become an authority and independent institution. His contribution is also undisputed in turning him into a court that really works for uniformity of caselaw, for a quality, accessible and predictable justice. In fact, numbers to confirm this my thesis are sufficient in this year's report and as interpretive decisions that the Supreme Court of Cassation has pronounced and as a trend in the confirmation of the cases of the ICC, both as temporary and speed of justice, and as improvements in the equal distribution of cases between the various courts and between the various judges, so there is undoubtedly an improvement in this sense. One of the positive points of presenting such detailed reports is that the recommendations given by the National Assembly and the Legal Committee are being implemented, which ultimately leads to better and better justice within reasonable time limits. Of course, this is also a way for us to do an analysis of legislative activity. It turned out that the reform we made in 2007 played a positive role. I accept here the criticisms that were made on the right. Yes, it could indeed be considered to reduce this procedure by ruling simultaneously on eligibility and the initiation of the legal process in substance. Other improvements can be made within the deadlines, because if the judges start to rule within the 3-month period, now, figuratively speaking, they have found the hang of it in places by delaying court cases in an earlier phase, namely the timing phase, the distribution of cases and there are opportunities for this because of deficiencies in the Civil Procedure Code, which should be corrected by legislative action. I can't help but say a few words about the scandal of the last days about the disappearance of the famous notebook of the unfortunate Philip Zlatanov, because you know, although the reform of the judiciary sounds good and is important in principle for the Bulgarian citizens, every Bulgarian citizen draws his conclusions about how much the system is reformed on how and at what time his judicial cases are decided. The interest in sign cases is even greater. They're a barometer of how the justice system works. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, I would call this scandalous case a false start to judicial reform, which is seriously proclaimed by the government, because here the problem is not only that and not so much in how the trial will end with regard to the unfortunate President of the Commission for Conflict of Interests. Here the question is for the guarantors of who should be hit and who should be postponed. For those who produced such a policy, such lobbying policy, are now located on the floors of power, and together with them on the floors of power are also the largest ranks of judicial reform. That's why I'm saying that this is a false start to the judicial reform you want, because you're together on the floors of power with people whose initials appear in this notebook, if I may say figuratively, the initials from the notebook have survived and in full names with you they are already on the floors of power. That's the real problem. There is no chance that it would be random and convince Bulgarian citizens that it is a random moment when this notebook disappeared, this important evidence tool. No, there's nothing by accident! Perhaps this is where we should have used the presence of Lazar Gruev, perhaps in the context of this discussion of how he sees judicial reform, the most important reform that we have heard as a request from the new ruling majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u90	The line will be very brief. By the way, the notebook is evidence, not evidence. It's not bad to be exact in terminology. Judicial reform can't have a false start before it starts. But it is important precisely because the rulers are not and will not be perfect. If we wait for the perfect people to take power, then maybe we won't need justice. However, these are the communist ideals of the forty years, the time my father studied law and explained to him that this is a dying specialty and will not be able to work on it. He didn't work for other reasons. The law is not and will not be a dying specialty, because the people in power will always be imperfect, there will always be corruption, abuse, pressure. There will always be such notebooks. The point is that for them there should be investigations, penalties for any form of abuse and pressure. I must not say again that people who commit abuse will always be able to control the people who should then investigate them and sue them in every single government and every single state. So do not compromise the idea of judicial reform with an example that proves only the need for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Second line. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Manolova, with disgust I take this line to ask: who ordered the notebook? [[Applause from GERB.]] Who? Who carried the book around for months to brand this guy or that guy? Who's been setting up some kind of hearing of supposedly potential victims on this book? Once again, why didn't you pull out the notebook to read it? Who was interested in the Commission's establishment and prevention of conflict of interest not having a composition and not being able to work for a year and a half? And this committee is not yet fully operational! I don't want to keep designing questions like this. I cannot be adamant, but I am following the media statements on this matter. Even what I hear is that in the pending case, the book in question is not evidence. He had disappeared in another investigation that might have led to a case. In any case, I am sure that the book in question, i.e. four notebooks, are certified at the stage of pre-trial proceedings and they still exist, although probably not in their original form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u93	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Mrs. Manolova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kanev, not to me, but to your constituents you owe explanations as to whether and whether a ruling majority should be ideal. Not to me, but to your constituents, you have to explain what you do in the company of people who were in the book in question, just like those who ordered who should be hit, who should be postponed and who should be corrected.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u95	Who are these people?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u96	I am amazed that you feel comfortable in this company, but in the end it is a problem for you and your constituents. As for judicial reform, here the problem is that you will have to do it with those people who lived from the initials in the book and are now your colleagues in power and in the ruling majority. And as for Mr. Kirilov's question, the question here is very clear. Who's the guarantor is clear. These are the faces E.F., Zv. Zv., B.B. The answer is clear. Even your appointment, Mr. Zlatanov, does not deny it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. We continue with the speeches. Anyone? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for taking the floor, but the subject is serious, important. I would say that it is appropriate, with at least a few final words, to proceed to the vote on this report. I thank all magistrates, who in 2013 have made efforts and efforts to implement the law precisely, to pursue its most correct and fair meaning. I believe that these fellow Members have taken a step towards returning citizens' trust in the justice system. We remain debtors of the justice system in the part of the material insurance, in the part of the budget guarantee, which is why I declare that we have long begun preparation and work, so that we can secure the missing budget funds to secure a building fund of the judiciary and for a kind of............................................................................... to complete its budget. We have repeatedly commented on the building problems of the judiciary, but I would also say the following in order not to waste time: the problems with the material are overcome, but the problems with the quality and with the human factor are the heavier ones. We can therefore talk more sparingly, and our personnel system needs fair rules both for its construction and for advising and raising judges in it, as well as for the door of this judicial system to still be open to honest, decent and fair colleagues to develop the right and to develop justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Professor Gruev wants the floor. Here you go, Mr. Gruev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I take the floor literally for thirty seconds because I believe that in a civilised and democratic state, the interaction between institutions and separation must be civilised. From this highest tribune, I would like to thank all the MPs we worked with during the forty-one, forty-two and now the forty-third National Assembly, and I believe that you will be that parliament that will really give Bulgaria another step in improving the work of the judiciary. Purely human I thank the National Assembly and wish you success! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u101	Thank you, Professor. Gruev. Mr. Minister, would you like to take the floor? No. Last, ladies and gentlemen, are there any who wish to speak? I won't. I'm closing the debate. All Members of the National Assembly, please take their seats in the Chamber. There's a vote coming up. Vote, honourable Members, the draft decision to the point. They voted 123 MPs: 120, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, due to the exhaustion of the agenda and the weekly programme, only the control remains, the next meeting is tomorrow at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u102	(Cleared at 13.25) [[Reference between the Presidency of the National Assembly.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-12.u103	Dear colleagues, we need to clarify the day for the next meeting. We've consulted our colleagues. The next meeting will be Friday at 9:00. I apologize for the temporary misunderstanding!
