ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I propose to your attention a draft Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 17 to 19 December 2014 as follows: 1. First vote on the Bill on the Court of Auditors. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the conclusion by mutual agreement of the damage to the case-law of the case of Tsemeko.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Law amending the Property Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 4. First to vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry of Interior with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, one bill, and a second bill with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, point one for Thursday, 18 December 2014. 5. First vote on a Bill amending the Special Intelligence Means Act. Importers are Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs "St. 2" for Thursday, 18 December 2014. 6. Choice of permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international organisations. 7. Second vote of the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is envisaged as point 1 for Friday 19 December 2014. 8. Second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers' second item for Friday, 19 December 2014. 9. Second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Given as point 3 for Friday, 19 December 2014, pending the vote on extraordinary meeting decisions until the discussion and vote on the three budget bills in 2015. Please vote on the Programme Project. Vote 177 MPs: 161, against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Before I give the floor to Mr. Valeri Simeonov for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group, several messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 10 to 16 December 2014: 1. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers are Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the conclusion by mutual agreement of the damage to the case-law of the case-law of Cemekof Ltd "Sofia, Bulgaria," and of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and "Klosters Beteligungsgesellschaft mbH." Importer is the Council of Ministers. The bill is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The Committee on Budget and Finance is attached. 3. Draft amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. Importers are Dimitar Boychev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. 4. A bill amending the Special Intelligence Means Act. Importers are Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee is attached. 5. Law on People's Education. Importers are Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Culture and Media. 6. A summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2013. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. 7. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2014. 20 December 2014 Importer is the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. On 15 December 2014 the National Statistical Institute received information about the consumer price indices for November 2014. The material is in the Library of the National Assembly and is available to the MPs. A decision of the Commission for Protection of Competition has been adopted in the National Assembly. It provides the Commission with an opinion on compliance with the competition rules of the Independent Evaluators Act and its related legal framework governing the activity of independent valuers. The material is provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. The chairman of the group Mr. Valeri Simeonov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u2	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Karakachanov! In less than 20 days, Bulgarian society has witnessed several brutal criminal acts committed by representatives of the Gypsy ethnicity over minors, as well as over medical officials during the performance of their duties. The cases amazed and stepped on society with their brutality, insolence and a sense of impunity. On December 5th, a 12-year-old student with a mild form of mental retardation was raped in the school of the village of Debet, Burgas, and the bully was a Gypsy, a repeater of the eighth grader from the same school. The victim child was admitted to the Multiprofile Hospital in Burgas with multiple lacerations and bleedings. A few days later, a crowd of gypsies from the illegal ghetto held an unauthorized rally in the center of the village and requested the resignation of the mayor of the village Ivanka Angelova, as strange as that may sound. On November 30 in the village of Vratchesh, Botegradsko, Dr. Irena Marinova, an emergency worker, was beaten by gypsies while performing his duties in an attempt to save human life. On this occasion, a worthy Bulgarian minister, Peter Moskov, faced the cowardly truce with the honour of the profession. Of course, it was branded by the insolences I save from the DPS. Thank you. These three cases of the hundreds similar in recent years are another disgraceful evidence of the destructive processes in the Bulgarian society over the last 20 years. It is undeniable that much of the Gypsy ethnicity lives outside all laws, rules and general human norms of conduct. For them the laws do not apply, taxes and fees are incomprehensible concepts, electricity, water, social and health insurance bills are replaced by the belief that they have only rights but not obligations and responsibilities. For them, theft and robbery have become a way of livelihood, violation of the law, the birth of children, a profitable business at the expense of the state, the care for the generation of minors in begging, prostitution, theft and drug dealing. The Gypsy barons impose a pattern of existence, fundamentally contrary to the legal norms in the Bulgarian society. Bulgaria faces the chasm of ethnic crisis. Two opposing and mutually exclusive worlds are against each other in our tormented homeland: the world of the poor, but paying their bills pensioners, hanging on homemade snares on the ceilings of sickness and moneylessness, and the world of the perverse thieves and bullies, without memory drunk after receiving the monthly child and social benefits. Everything that has been said so far would serve as a good nutritional environment for the numerous human rights organizations of Roma, Helsinki, sorosoid and neoliberal origins as a basis for an accusation of racism, ethnic discrimination and any kind of crime that would accuse me and the Patriotic Front. However, that would be inaccurate, false, and hasty. Because the truth is that the Bulgarian society and state are facing a serious problem, which must be overcome decisively and with the application of all the power of the law. The law that the great Levski said should be the same for everyone, regardless of ethnicity. The question remains, what are the reasons why part of the Gypsy ethnicity becomes a destroyer of statehood and laws? Why have people who, during the time of socialism 25 years ago, worked, sent their children to school, contributed to the creation of public goods, now become bold, cocky and perverse human beings, requiring the right to pay without labor, requiring sickness benefits without being sick, children for children playing with pigs on the street, and maternal aid for women with instincts of street bitches? What created the belief in our dark compatriots that everything is allowed to them, that everything is allowed to them and that they are all obliged to feed them, clothe them and treat them for free? The answer to these questions would explain the root causes and tell us how to solve this difficult problem. And this response has its political projection or, as the representatives of the DPS would say, they have their political vector.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u3	You can't even say the word...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u4	For the second decade the Bulgarian society has been subjected to a sinister political experiment, comparable only to the one applied in 1917 at the beginning of the Bolshevik mutiny in Petersburg. In the same model, the DPS usurped the right of the sole representative of the Gypsy ethnicity, promising him political representation and minority privileges without any obligations. Following its infernal goal of dividing and opposing the Bulgarian society after the successes achieved among the small-literate Turkish population, in 2005, the pro-Turkish party leader Aamet Doan promised the Gypsies in Stolipinovo that they would not pay electricity if they voted for DPS. [[DPS reply]] In 2009, along with the promises of water and electricity, DPS propagandists also applied a new method of winning Gypsy voices through direct buying. Local government elections in 2011, parliamentary elections in 2013 and 2014, as well as the European elections in 2014, were completely manipulated and led to disastrous processes of distortion of election results. In parallel with the creation of stolen by state and municipal budgets Bulgarian levs DPS promoted hysterical hatred of the Bulgarian ethnicity [[a line from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan]] and planted primitive xenophobia and self-insulation of Turkish and Gypsy ethnicities. At the same time, leaders of the criminal political economic clique demonstrated their proximity to the dictatorial and anti-national regime of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, now president, and until recently Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. The same one who plunged the mass protests against the violation of democracy and the freedoms of citizens in Turkey in 2013; the same one who sent tanks and aviation against those fighting for their freedom Kurds; the same one who expressed Turkey's neo-Osmanian claims to their Balkan neighbours, and the same one who said two days ago: "Europe should mind its own business." Here is the root of evil, here lies the reason for the planted hatred, in the beastly cries of death of the Bulgarians and the blood-stained knives, iron and axes. Here lies the fear, pain and tears of our parents and children, humiliation, grief and frustration of Bulgarian doctors, policemen, social workers and teachers. Here, the root of evil is in the Bulgarian Parliament! As in the vile agreement of the Bulgarian parties with the criminal mafia DPS depending on the momentary distribution of the forces. Therefore, Bulgaria has no chance if Bulgarian politicians do not forgive themselves with their political shortsightedness and stop their unprincipled agreements in the name of power with the most evil creation of the so-called "transition"!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u5	Motherfucker!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u6	No chance, no chance if we don't bet on patriotism, unification and rage to survive! The patriotic front will take the necessary legislative measures to ensure the security of civil servants, as well as to increase criminal liability, including the imprisonment of insolent lawbreakers and their patrons. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from the Pf; calling from the middle of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u7	For the procedure "Chutevi Mestan" in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I believe that you violated the Rules of Procedure because you allowed one MP from this high tribune to make xenophobic. [[Laughter in P.F.]] , generalized accusations...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u9	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u10	...against an entire ethnicity! In Bulgaria, Madam President, you are a lawyer and you know that the perpetrators, the specific perpetrators, are responsible for individual crimes. No one in the parliament of European Bulgaria can insult an entire ethnicity, whether it be Turkish, Gypsy, Bulgarian or whatever! No one in the parliament of European Bulgaria can make insults against the head of state of a sovereign state with which we are in friendly relations! [[Shouts: "Eee! "]] This is why I ask: whether Valeri Simeonov's positions are shared by the coalition partners of the Patriotic Front in the face of the ABC. [[SHOUTING AND SPEAKING IN P.F.]] The Reformation Block and GERB? And are these insulting qualifications with regard to the President of the Republic of Turkey the position of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov? I'm waiting for the answers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u11	Here's a personal explanation. [[Field lines]] There is a particular text in the Rules of Procedure when a person feels personally concerned. In the particular exhibition there were direct attacks against ethnicity, to which the people's representative belongs, if I have correctly understood your request for a personal explanation. Start over, because I talked for 25 seconds and we cut your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u12	Thank you, Madam President. This is the first time I've ever been on this stand. I am very sad, dear Mr. Simeonov, that you are using the parliamentary tribune not for which our constituents and the Bulgarian people have sent us here to unite the nation and you are using the parliamentary tribune to divide the nation. [[Applause from DPS.]] What goes against all human, moral, democratic rights. The mouths of a nation are mainly due to the unification of the nation.. what the whole democratic world does, all the advanced, proven European countries, which are on the rise, unite their nation and not divide it. You, Mr. Simeonov, have no right to accuse an entire ethnicity of individual domestic crimes of one person or another. Let each man bear his own responsibility and let the law be firm and firm against each one. In Bulgaria we live more than one million Roma and you have no right to accuse each one of these because of one or the other domestic crime. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I am here in the DPS Parliamentary Group, and I am glad that with our powerful parliamentary group, we will be a strong resistance to such xenophobic statements as you are making. Roma are part of the Bulgarian public and we are proud of it. We will continue to feel Bulgarians, we will protect the Bulgarian community as a whole, because we are part of this society and we feel Bulgarians as much as each other. [[Applause from the DPS. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u13	Personal explanation? [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Colleagues, I call with the exchange of personal, roll call... [[Noise and lines.]] He was not mentioned by name until the colleague mentioned him twice by name. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] The first time I gave a personal explanation because I accepted that article. 57, para. 2: The Member of the National Assembly shall be entitled to a personal explanation within two minutes after a speech in plenary has been made in person or by roll call. [[Noise and lines.]] With him, it was personal, it's roll call. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] We're listening to you, Mr. Simeonov, hoping you won't quote and name other names so we can move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u14	Of course not. The man who came before me. [[(crowd cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and ……]] , definitely did not listen carefully to my speech, and most of his group, but this is normal. There's no listening, there's no reasoning, there's acting under orders and only according to the narrow material interest. [[Private applause from PF.]] At no point in my declaration have I talked about the whole ethnicity, but about part of the ethnicity, the one who breaks the laws, kills, rapes, steals. I'm sorry if the gentleman who spoke before me is assigned to this part of the ethnicity. I'm sorry! I think he has reason to feel affected and to be assigned to this part of the ethnicity that brutally violates the laws, gasses crime and the dignity of all his fellow citizens and compatriots, because the same one I saw him the other day when he came to work at nine o'clock without a minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u15	Colleague, you're already going into personal assaults here...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u16	Okay...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u17	...personal, which is unacceptable by our regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u18	...with two Volvas and stopped at the forbidden zone. So be careful not to repeat those you have developed so far, and do not try to transfer your own xenophobia, hatred and anti-European behavior to others. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u19	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has the word Mr. Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms uses today to remind with nostalgic pride one of the few consensual election achievements of Bulgarian democracy, namely the pact for a smooth transition to stability without rematchm approved by all political forces and guaranteed by the President before the elections to the Forty-third National Assembly. We remember very clearly both the positive international response to the philosophy of the pact itself and the dignified position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for the refusal of power and the abandoning of the close party interest in favour of the stability of the state. Of course, behind this public agreement were both the parties ruling at that time BSP and DPS, as well as those claiming power in the face of GERB and the Reformation bloc, subsequently guaranteeing compliance with all points of the agreement with their high claims for new morality in politics and extra-party professionalism in possible future governance with their participation. Dear colleagues, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Bulgarian Society have a long political memory, and there is no way that only four months can disappear the word for non-revention. Alas, the first task of serving Prime Minister Bliznashki was to trample this agreement in front of the President and to begin a political cleansing of government officials, members and sympathizers of the DPS. After the introduction of the Patriotic Front in the country's governance, after unprecedented pressure from the Reformation Block, the process has been accelerated, with 180 civil servants fired in just a few weeks, who have passed a competition and meet the official characteristics and requirements, but who have been identified as close to the DPS in one way or another. From the many signals of brutally fired, we find that along with the dry forests and the raw. The object of the political purge has also become government officials who are not addicted to the DPS, but are targeted because they have not demonstrated an addiction to the new power. Yes, the criteria are not at all professionalism, education, experience and, therefore, the criterion is only one political one. Being a member or a sympathizer of the DPS means being fired immediately. Political cleansing is part of the xenophobia of today's power. We address the representatives of the quadruple coalition of GERB, the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front and the ABB. Dear powerful, we now understand why the quadruple coalition had such an unstoppable desire to include the Patriotic Front in the country's rule. There is no way that national populists and xenophobes from the Patriotic Front are not satisfied with this xenophobic motivated repression is unparalleled even with red and blue brooms. But keep in mind, Bulgarian society, European and Atlantic partners cannot be fooled that this is only Valeri Simeonov's position. Now this is officially the position of the cabinet Borisov 2 and his ministers. In order not to leave nameless victims of xenophobic pushes of the quadruple coalition, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms launched a scenic chronicle of political repression. Every Wednesday, from the platform, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will read the names of the deprived of its constitutional right to work and bread in the state administration Bulgarian citizens and will publish them in an online bloc so that the Bulgarian society and European and Atlantic partners have a clear idea of the scale of xenophobic outbursts of the new political morality. Until now, 286 were repressed, of which 88 were fired from the office, and the remaining 180 from the cabinet Borisov 2 and the quadruple coalition GERB, Reformist Bloc, ABB and Patriotic Front. As of next Wednesday, we will announce by name the latest victims of the political repression of the supposed reformist government, which, with these acts, rather deforms Bulgaria's value system. That is, every Wednesday we will write in real time the story of the political repression and then issue a collection that will have its worthy prime minister in the European Parliament and the European Commission. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u21	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Ms. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! I am coming out on behalf of a parliamentary group to say my impression of a period that has passed. A year and a half of a government that was formed by BSP, DPS and the golden finger of Ataka, ruled and unceremoniously destroyed personnel who in the years had made a professional career. Films that had nothing to do with GERB membership, but had to do with the fact that they managed during GERB and during this government worked well, and were left behind. Forty-three thousand people in one year were fired from the three coalitions of BSP, DPS and Ataka. [[Relations from DPS and BSP LB.]] Not ladybugs, colleagues, but beetles, people with party backgrounds; people who grew up in party plants; party greats; people who can only and only make politics, repress party footage. I'm not gonna tell you what was going on when some principal had to be fired. He was constantly called and pressured psychologically, for months to free himself. Many times from the parliamentary tribune I have signaled about this. You know that a commission was made for the dismissals during GERB and no one, however, from BSP, DPS and "Attack" did not ask to continue this period within three months during which they managed to tell them what happened in those three months. The party footage that you colleagues have appointed, your beetles, your crime scenes have made it possible for Bulgaria not to reach the bottom in one year, but to reach below it. All European funds stopped, the stability of the state was over, investors withdrew. You sat on stubborn, surrounded by iron fences here in Parliament, and were not ashamed of it, because your party leaders on the ground found a very good realization in the respective government services. Without any experience! [[Relations from BSP LB and DPS.]] They crushed the state machine and we're back to square one. Now the GERB government, together with its partners, must prove to Europe that Bulgaria's stability is slowly but surely returning and that is precisely why the EU funds have started to open, to thaw. Whenever they run BSP and DPS, we have a problem with Europe. Now, in one month, the results are in. [[DPS lines.]] We are starting to take advantage of European solidarity. Colleagues, whatever guides you do to those who are fired, we can never reach what you have done because you have crippled thousands of fates and you continue to try to act repressed. Somehow it's not working! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u23	Point one of our weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF AUDITORS. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u24	Honourable Members, Madam President! The consideration of a point relating to a change in the Law on the Court of Auditors is pending, or, figuratively speaking, in the next two hours, GERB will begin the process of insemination of the current Court of Auditors. [[GERB lines.]] It will be terminated as an organ, and the people who work there will be fired.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u25	They're gonna want a live feed, guys. Wait till you hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u26	In this regard, I propose to allow in this Chamber the President of the Court of Auditors Lydia Rumenova, because until now the rules applied, the correct tone, the normal conduct of the plenary requires that, when a senior official, such as Mrs. Rumenova, be dismissed, at least participate in the relevant plenary session. I understand that you conveniently forgot to inform her and the invitations to t. 1 of today's programme, but I think that with your votes you should give her access to the plenary, as well as give her the opportunity to speak, because what is to come, we have already looked at it, the first term body is under the knife, the next, the purge, which can very well apply GERB, is underway, let at least those who will be at the slaughter, be able to participate in the discussion process.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u27	A reverse opinion? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Conversely, I do not think that we should transmit directly...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u29	No, there's no such proposal. [[GERB lines.]] There isn't one! Only for admission to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u30	...we're online all the time anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u31	There is no such proposal, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u32	If, Madam President, you allow Mrs. Rumenova to the Chamber, in view of...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u33	This will be done by a deliberate decision of Yours, of all Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u34	...the model in which it is currently involved, we should also invite the previous members of the Court of Auditors to defend the previous model, because ultimately what we are proposing is precisely the return of the model that was working until 2014. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u35	There's been a procedural proposal for admission. I put this proposal to the vote. They voted 163 MPs: 75, against 40, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Revoting wants Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! In this vote, the hypocrisy of GERB was polished. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I ask Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva if she is not ashamed after the pathos, which she poured out from the parliamentary platform, not to support the request in the Chamber to allow Lydia Rumenova, who, with the votes of GERB, is to be fired and the Court of Auditors horny? This is the beginning of the Purge of GERB and it is right...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u37	What do you suggest, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u38	...at least attend the plenary. I suggest Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva apologize from this tribune for the hypocritical statement she made...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u39	You're in a re-voting procedure and I didn't understand the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u40	...after his actions proved that this is all just nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u41	Are you doing a procedure to invite her?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u42	I propose a re-voting in which the MPs of GERB will reconsider their behaviour, because otherwise the whole hypocrisy of their statements will become clear to the Bulgarian citizens. European practice is that when a person is fired, to be heard, all the more so that it is one of the most important institutions in the country that you will close down to appoint a comfortable single body, as you have done before.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u43	It's a rethink mode. They voted 171 MPs: for 82, against 60, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u44	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u45	There's no personal explanation in the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! Our session begins very strangely and we propose that it be broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio [[GERB lines]] Because, fellow Members, listen to me. I'm really surprised by your approach. It is a non-European practice unheard of to discuss a national institution without inviting the President of the institution. Mr. Valeri Dimitrov stood during all the discussions we had last year with his entire team and deputies. Shame and shame on the oppression of democracy in our country! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u47	Is there a reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u48	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u49	You will be able to conduct a procedure. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made for the direct broadcasting of the debates and the vote on this point. They voted 163 MPs: 54, against 65, abstentioned 44. The offer is not accepted. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I am making a note to you that when personal insults to fellow MPs are made out of the stands, you should have reacted and taken Mrs Manolova's word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u51	Now, for a personal explanation. So we're gonna be in private mode all day.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u52	Oh!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u53	Oh, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u54	Just so you know, there's nothing to be ashamed of, I just left the gym for a little while. You should be ashamed of yourself because you have turned a working institution into a repression body and appointed Mr. Stanishev's councilwoman as chairman of this institution. [[Shouts from GERB: "Bravo, Flower! "]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u55	Thank you. On behalf of a parliamentary group, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is obvious that the government does not want to have a normal parliamentary way of conducting the debates and the debates in this House. As a sign of protest, our parliamentary group is leaving. [[Applause from GERB and yelling: Bravo, bravo! The MPs from BSP LB are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u57	Mrs. Stoyanova, report on the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u58	♪ I can't believe on a Bill for the Court of Auditors, No 454-01-60, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 8 December 2014. At a meeting held on 10 December 2014, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the President of the Court of Auditors Lydia Rumenova. The bill was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who focused on several main points, namely: 1. The model of a supreme audit institution established by the Law on the Court of Auditors shall be restored in force until 2014. A model of an active, rational and effective institution designed to improve the legal, efficient, efficient and economic management of public funds and activities. There is a three-member, professional college of Presidents and two Vice-Presidents who take all decisions and internal acts unanimously. Each Vice-President shall have a portfolio appointed by the President of the Court of Auditors. It thus minimises the possibility of external influence and/or pressure on the college by stakeholders in taking decisions relating to audits carried out by the Court of Auditors. The audit work shall be carried out in audit directorates specialised in carrying out a specific type of audit, which shall be achieved by profiling the auditors themselves, resulting in their greater specialization and higher qualification. Objectiveivity and independence in decision-making shall be ensured by the clear distinction of functions between the different participants in the audit process. Several quality control levels for audit reports shall be carried out by professionals leading the audit director who require 7 years of audit experience. 2. In order to create conditions for informed choice and compliance with the principles of publicity and transparency, the President and Vice-Presidents will be elected after a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 3. It is possible for the head of the audited organisation to be able to give written opinions on the draft audit report and audit opinion delivered for a financial audit. In this way, the audited organisation shall be given the opportunity to submit its opinion and/or facts and circumstances to which the auditor has not reached during the performance of the audit task. 4. The powers of the Court of Auditors for administrative punishment for violations of the Public Procurement Act are restored. On the basis of a risk analysis, the Court of coats shall check public procurement and, where it establishes infringements, draw up acts and impose penalties. The current law does not take the approach of sending the file to the Agency for State Financial Inspection, which, in turn, has to recheck the facts and circumstances, even though the law states that it refers directly to the Court of Auditors' findings. 5. The possibility of not carrying out financial audits of small municipalities up to 10 million is restored. BGN total budget, as this leads to the loss of an extremely large resource by the auditors of the Court of Auditors, where approximately 90% of this amount is for salaries and contributions to the employees of the municipality concerned. 6. The scope of the audit work of the Court of Auditors shall be aligned with the Law on Public Finance and International Audit Standards, as well as modern practices in the field of public sector audit, entered into force from 01.01.2014. 7. A new point in this bill is the introduction of a regulation under which the closure of financial audits with the approval of the audit report and the audit opinion by the Vice-President will take place only in cases where an audit opinion for certification is without reservations or for certification without reservations with consideration. 8. The current control of the periodic financial statements carried out by the Court of Auditors shall be restored. As a result of current controls, the heads of budgetary organisations have the opportunity to promptly remove incorrect accounting practices based on the findings of auditors. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.......................... 11 MPs.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the Court of Auditors, No 454-01-60, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 8 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u59	Debates are open. On behalf of the importers, who will present the bill? There will be no introduction. I ask Members of Parliament who wish to participate in the debate to give a sign of this. Mr. Rumen Gechev goes first.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u60	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! As you can see, the parliamentary group of BSP LB quite clearly and demonstrably left the Chamber, [[GERB lines]] as we are witnessing unprecedented and rude, insolent violation of elementary democratic principles. I wonder to you, colleagues, why did you need this? But you will be punished with public opinion from Bulgaria and beyond. We are currently discussing another Bill for the Court of Auditors. The current law providing for a 9-member college has been adopted and has been in effect since April 2014. It was adopted following a broad discussion of the reports on the Court of Auditors' activities as a college body acting until 2010 and a single body as imposed by GERB and acting until April 2014. For more than seven months there were discussions with the participation of leading experts from the University of National and World Economy, the Economic Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, NGOs and state agencies, and now we are being offered a new law on our knee. In 2010 without discussion on the substance of the activities of the Court of Auditors, then GERB again repealed the law with which Bulgaria was adopted in the European Union and which, apart from meeting all the requirements of the European Union, met the traditional model of the Chamber in Bulgaria and its 125-year history. Once again, without any motives and comparative analysis, the Court of Auditors is liquidated as a college body and is replaced by a President and two Vice-Presidents. The now proposed model, after the three and a half years during which it acted, proved indisputably its inefficiencies, unreliableness and strong political dependence. I will just tell you that for 2013 the Court of Auditors' own programme was not then filled with 30%... the tasks it had assigned for the same year. The project provides for decisions to be taken unanimously. In this way, prerequisites are created for full blocking of the Court's activities. In the absence of one of the three, in the absence of a conflict of interest or in the absence of agreement, the Court's activities are blocked and decision-making will be impossible in this setting, while in the 9-member college, in collective decisions this block cannot happen. The education and qualification requirements introduced only in the area of auditing, financial control and accounting are extremely narrowed and do not exist in any law on supreme audit institutions in the European Union. You remember we gave you a comparative analysis of who heads the accounting palaces, who are the deputies in the Czech Republic, Poland, France, Spain. Once again, there is an extreme limitation of qualification, which there is no European practice. In the end, the Court of Auditors does not only perform audit functions. There should be experts there - engineers, specialists in EU funds and so on. It is unfortunate to exclude from the scope of the competences of the Court of Auditors of municipalities under 10 million. lv. These municipalities are 61% of the municipalities in Bulgaria, which means that they accumulate a substantial amount of public resources. They are also key beneficiaries of European projects and programmes. Their exclusion from audit creates a very big and real risk to accountability in the absorption of European funds. It is absolutely unprincipled and without any considerations in the Project that the Court of Auditors is proposing to accept only part of the audit opinions and audit reports from financial audit and that the others should be accepted. This approach can only lead to knowingly concealing errors and deviations in order to avoid their consideration by the Court of Auditors' management. Inconclusive is the extension of the possibility of receiving remuneration from both the auditors and the President and Vice-Presidents of international projects and programmes. Given that the Court audited international projects and programmes, the likelihood that the management bodies will participate in the adoption of reports on projects they have worked on is quite high. As the reports are adopted unanimously by the College, in practice such a report will either not be adopted at all or, more likely, such projects will not be audited at all. The law waives the grounds for early termination of the term of office due to a serious violation of the law or the Code of Ethics. In the context of the above point, we are faced with the intention of the governing bodies to work in a comfortable environment, without rules and with respect for ethical principles which are otherwise applicable to the entire Chamber of the Court. Last but not least, the main disadvantage of the Management of the Court of Auditors by President and two Vice-Presidents is the possibility of easier manipulation and interference in its work and the conditions for exercising political pressure. Let us bear in mind that the current composition of the college consists of proven specialists in the audit of EU funds and projects. Dear colleagues, you remember your plea how illiterate party secretaries will be appointed to the College. Every Bulgarian citizen can now enter the Internet, open the professional biographies of the current members of the Court and see that these are proven professionals meeting all the requirements to carry out activities in the field of accounting, audit and perform the functions of the Court of Auditors. Unprecedentfully, a third Law on the Court of Auditors is proposed for our new history. Here, I'll open a clamp. Dear colleagues, Madam President, what we are doing in Bulgaria, not only now we are changing administration for 25 years and we are wondering why we do not have qualified personnel! Is that what we Bulgarians do?! For the second year, we're making a third Court of Auditors, which brings us to Guinness' record, to the unpleasant record! We are a miracle of miracles with the Court of Auditors in the European Union! And why is that?! Why is it being done?! [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Is it just political retribution and revenge?! Specific remarks on the Bill. What kind of model is proposed in this Bill because it is not clear? When GERB's first law on the eradication of the collegial model was adopted, then in your motives you promoted their model as sole. Now the same thing you represent as a co-worker of three people. You must specify when your motives were true in 2010 or now?! Obviously, they cannot be a college, even if they are elected by the National Assembly in stages. If they are chairman and vice-presidents, they are in a hierarchical relationship, as in art. 20, p. 2 It is said that the President shall designate powers in the management, organisation and control of the audit activities of the Vice-Presidents. Thirdly, are they ultimately the Court of Auditors carrying out an audit activity or a management of the Court of Auditors, as announced in art. 23?! If they are governing bodies, as in the Law, which of them is leading what, since they are not distinct in the Law? This Law should regulate the structure and competences of the constitutional authority. In addition to a purely political decision to change the authority, there are no other relevant motives. Dear colleagues, your bill has not been discussed anywhere. You offer it overnight, written on your knee. Nowhere has it been discussed in the Bulgarian institutions and Bulgarian NGOs. What is more, I will try: today you have done something unheard of, you do not allow the Head of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria in plenary! Why? Because you're afraid of him. We haven't even put to the vote, we haven't thought for a second when we discussed the law that the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Valeri Dimitrov, and his two deputies will not be in the Chamber. Is there such a request, is it in Parliament's pleadings? He's gone. Where is this political insolence to remove a senior head of state from the Chamber when discussing the fate of this institution?! You have only one motive. You don't have any comparative analysis in your project. You claim that the Court of Auditors is inefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would please step out on the stand and state the facts. Do not come up with locumi and political rematchism as we did comparative analysis. The fact is that 30 per cent the Court of Auditors has failed to implement its 2013 programme, which imposed the corresponding change. Before the conclusion I will say as the last counterargument the following. Dear colleagues, in the motives of your bill you have only one economic argument that is a good sense of humor. What's your argument? That three times less expenditure will be incurred for the management of the Court of Auditors, since now the College is of nine people, and then it will be of three. By this logic of yours, if Parliament is from one person and not 240, you will make great savings! Why don't you?! [[Noise and lines.]] If the Council of Ministers remains only with the Prime Minister, even greater savings! Dear colleagues, have you not heard that costs and benefits are measured, that not only are looked at, but also what is the effect of the Court's work?! Since in three people, you had higher costs in 2011 and 2012, which is visible on the Internet, you can't fool it, with your triple management team you have higher administrative costs than the college. So, you're lying! Secondly, the Bulgarian people want to see 32 billion being spent. lv. Not how much is the cost of paper or pens for three or nine people. You use a unique argument to look at the costs of nine people, not that the Court monitors, regulates, controls and punishes, where necessary, those who spend 32 billion. lv. of the Bulgarian people. However, you honourable Members have not submitted a single report to the Court of Auditors in four years! You hid the Court of Auditors' accounts, stopped them at the Budget Committee you were running here in this room! The only European Union country during your governance, where the Court of Auditors' report has not entered the Parliamentary Hall, is under your management. You're making a rude political mistake. All of Europe sees that you play shikiki mikiki with a state institution that will bring you will serve you very unpleasant not only political results! So: remember yourself in time and withdraw this Project, which is a project of political rematchism. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I'm asking for a line. Here you go, Mr. Slavov. Just to remind you that the debate is under art. 55, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, respectively the time for discussion shall be allocated to the parliamentary groups depending on their numbers, and for the smallest of them it shall not be less than 10 minutes, but for the largest of them 30 minutes. Accordingly, the time of the other groups has been recalculated. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I thought I would not say that it is becoming a habit for me to replicate Mr. Gechev, however, when I saw that BSP was both coming out of the room and are still here, and when I heard these things about lies, I could not help myself. I want to pay attention to why it all happened and how it started. It started because BSP and the DPS in the last management term with the Oresharski government changed the entire law completely to change the management of the Court of Auditors. That's the very simple reason why we're having this debate here now. And here the more interesting thing is that in fact, the law adopted in the previous term BSP and DPS was practically the same as the law that was in force and which is now recovering in its majority. They had only replaced the supreme body by calling it a collegial body and making it a 9-member instead of a 3-member and claiming that this is a huge and decisive change. But whole chapters of the existing law were then practically rewritten into their so-called "new" bill only to change the leadership. We all get that. This can't be hidden, and we all know it. I note to you that what they did back then was unacceptable. The way in which the Court of Auditors' leadership was then elected was unacceptable and bordered on absurdity. Similarly, they made other choices at the time. I don't think I need to go back to choosing DANS. We all remember what happened. These things just need to be fixed. For me, the most natural thing is to return to the previous model of action of the Court of Auditors, because, colleagues, we have been involved with collective bodies over the years. And it's no coincidence that people say, "There's nothing worse than collective irresponsibility." Let it be clear who is in charge of the Court, let it be clear what responsibilities it has, let it be clear that the 3-member Board of Governors decides unanimously that it is responsible for these decisions. We will support this bill. I think it's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u63	Then let's make the Constitutional Court a collective body, if you've got your hands full with a collective.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Gechev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, the colleague disagrees, makes the reply so should be done. I don't agree with his arguments. The colleague made his plea calmly, put forward his arguments, there were no personal attacks, were principled. That's the way to debate. But, my colleague, today I agree with your line, as the model was changed in 2010. That's when the Court of Auditors' carousel began. Bulgaria is the only country that changes the system of the Court of Auditors. We have already discussed the three models in Europe. There are sufficient models with a college, including the European Court of Auditors. I absolutely disagree with your conclusions, I do not know what your motivation is that the collective bodies are ineffective. Colleague, democracy is built on collective bodies. A collective body is parliament, a collective body is the Constitutional Court. Isn't that right? A collective body is the government, collective are the regulatory authorities "The Financial Supervision Commission, the agencies and so on. So don't confuse the collective bodies with efficiency and democracy. That is why we have introduced principles in Bulgaria for the Court of Auditors, which have worked smoothly long enough since 1995-1996. And then I told you, together with the government of the French state came 1995, they gave us grants. And although they do not have a college governance model, they recommended to Bulgaria on behalf of the European Union then to adopt this model of management of the Court of Auditors and it was working smoothly until 2010. So you started this process. I wouldn't advise you to keep it up. It's not in our country's best interest. Do not reduce personal problems to the kicking of the Bulgarian institutions to infinity. We must stop the Bulgarian political elite at some point. Otherwise, we're destroying our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. There is a request for a statement from Mr. Tsonev of the DPS Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u67	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, the tabled Bill for the Court of Auditors can only qualify as one of the first and brightest manifestations of legislative rematchism by the new majority of the quadruple governing coalition. I very much wish that my speech would be in the spirit of the tone set by that declaration that we made for a smooth transition to political stability without rematching. I very much wish there were no such purges in the administration, and now the legislative one with today's point for the Court of Auditors and tomorrow's first two points, which are the next two manifestations of legislative rematchm. I would like to warn colleagues from GERB that it is no accident that both your leader and our other political leaders have expressed a new tone of communication in this Parliament, taking lessons from everything that is happening in the Bulgarian society in the last four years. Some of them were not in parliament, others were absent for 15 years or less. But to colleagues from GERB, I turn to you and I would like to warn you that the style of revenge and administration, and in the legislation will take us neither more nor less by February 2013. If you really want this, it would be a pity for all our joint efforts to calm the political situation in the country and lead the country really to political stability that will solve the problems of the people and the state. According to the specific bill, GERB missed the opportunity and I said it in the Budget Commission of Mrs. Stoyanova, GERB missed the opportunity to have a debate on the model of the Court of Auditors because we could not do this in the previous parliament due to the extremely sharp confrontational environment. There was just a rejection of any conversation. This debate began in 2010, to remind colleagues of the Reformation bloc. 2010 when, by the end of the term of office of the then President, less than a year remained and decided to change the model in order to preserve it. He personally proposed this model of sole management to the Court of Auditors. We hold, but in a debate can be clarified with the pros, with the minuses, and we focus on some pattern, we hold on the college. The College as a form of management and decision-making by the Court of Auditors for Bulgaria is a good option. Whether this college will be of 5, 7, 9, 11, as it was, is a matter of debate. Exactly what will be the divisions, structure and decision making is also a matter of debate, and we have proposed our political skills and efforts to make this debate and to come to a consensus on change, but one by which we can guarantee the Court of Auditors that in the coming years this body will not be touched by any majority. The current approach suggests that I tell you that in the next turn of the political roulette, there will be a retaliatory blow equal to the one you are now doing in the opposite direction. You don't doubt there'll be a spin of the roulette wheel whenever it is, do you? We don't want this to happen. This is what the highest audit body of the state suffers from. We are also aware of our responsibility for this. Once again, we appeal to you: either you withdraw the Bill or we make sure that a model that will not be touched by anyone else is consensual. It cannot be for four years that the Supreme Audit Authority sways between the political biases of this or that political force, because it has to solve too important issues and does not solve them in the last four years. And when we said that this organ had fallen into political dependence and bias, we proved it. Remember, we proved it. I asked Mrs. Stoyanova: is there a claim of political bias for the college in the last six months? She said she wouldn't. And I know I won't. I know from GERB's representatives that they have no complaints. And no one has complained that this body since the change of the Law six months ago has shown some political bias or commitment. [[Reply from GERB: "This is not true! "]] Let one stand and say that this happened! That's the style I'm talking about. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u68	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u69	If you want to change this style, change has to start with us. Otherwise, in the real model, in the real form you offer, nothing new. However, it contains a confession. This Bill contains a confession and I would like to say it not so much to colleagues from GERB as to colleagues who are for the first time in parliament. The main debate was whether the previous model was collegiate, collective, or sole. We argued that it was sole because of the fact that the audits were only accepted by the President and not by the President and his alternates, as the then President and colleagues of GERB claimed. In fact, the current bill provides that what was missing in the previous "they" will be adopted by the President and Vice-Presidents. In the previous model, the President and Vice-Presidents decided only on administrative matters and not on audits. So this confession is a response to the main dispute from six months ago or from a year ago, because the dispute began at the end of last year. That is, the previous model has not been collegial since you corrected this moment in the Bill. Nevertheless, the one you are proposing is not for the reasons you have pointed out here Prof. Gechev. There's no college, there's a chairman and two vice-presidents. There must be a college to be a college model, to be a collective body. For this reason, I appeal to you to go back to the good tone and discuss these things so that the main political forces do not have a commitment not to destabilize the country's main control and governance bodies in the next editions of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u70	- What's the line? First line.. colleague Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! It's a very short line, since it's not good to call from place to place. It's absolutely not true what Mr. Tsonev said. The institution is working on a very repressive method. Before the elections in all municipalities in Bulgaria, which were managed by GERB, were sent people, I would like to stress, incompetent, to which we have explained elementary things. You should know that. And you made a repressive machine, and now you're going out to the stands to talk about how innocent people were going to check and how they achieved the results they were given. Absolutely not true about that thing. It's not just about that statement, it's about the previous one. People are incompetent! You sent them from other cities, they had no idea. I give you an example with just the plan-accounting how it is formed and what costs are made. We had to explain in writing eight times what's being spent! And you come out to the stands to say that these people were so competent, they understood everything, they knew how to do it, they're so innocent and good! Absolutely not true about that thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u72	Second line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u73	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsonev, in your speech you put the emphasis that the basis of motivation is rematchism. Perhaps, but I believe that at the heart of this behaviour of the ruling majority is a false feeling that by putting your own, trusted people at the level of this institution, you are providing comfort and uncontrollably spending the 32 billion that is spoken of by colleague Gechev. This seems to me to be an element of a violation of the judiciary, the SANS and a number of other state institutions, which will really lead to severe consequences. I believe that if they have political reactivity, the government should withdraw this bill. The line is that it's not a rematch, it's your illusory feeling that you can arrange things to spend out of control. This will lead to very severe consequences.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u74	Third line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, just to remind you that when you submitted this bill and made the change that is currently in force in the Court of Auditors, you know how sharp the reaction of Brussels was. I can give you an example with Ingebor Gresle she spoke about what is unacceptable to happen in Bulgaria. I can say that after the parliamentary elections and meetings with Ingebor Gresle... I don't know if you know this, but she is the head of the European Parliament's Budget Committee and today the European Commission's budget is being adopted precisely by the European Parliament. Mr. Gechev, I remember the time when you managed this was 1995. Bulgaria was not a member of the European Union then and did not use the European funds. But I know very well that when you managed, we had a banking crisis, bankruptcy of banks and Bulgarian citizens lost their savings. So, please, you especially should not be concerned about this topic! [[BSP LB.]] I want to make a line for Mr. Tsonev. You give an example from this tribune and you lead in debates related to financial topics for Bulgaria?! Please, you are a professor, but you have lost the trust of Bulgarian citizens. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] This is your topic you're discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u76	You're a criminal!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u77	Mr. Tsonev, I have always adhered to European practices [[continuing lines by the National Representative Rumen Gechev]] and to the assessments that Europe gives.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u78	You're a convicted felon!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u79	Mr. Gechev, please don't interrupt the speaker...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u80	Come and say it from the stands. Come and say it from the stand so I can file a lawsuit against you! Come and say it from the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u81	Do not enter into personal explanations, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u82	How many cases do you have?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u83	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I will start backwards because it seems to me that the reply of the President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov is essential and important, not that others are not. Mr. Tsvetanov, Europe's sharp voice was only by representatives of the European People's Party. I can name them for you. Do not doubt that such a vote will now be held by the representatives of the PES and the Liberals in the European Union. Is this our job as parliamentarians to go crying in Europe of our sister organizations and from there to understand what is wrong in Bulgaria? And understand that there is no elementary level of political culture in Bulgaria which does not allow us to sit down and understand each other's so obvious interests, such as the supreme audit authority and a bunch of other things waiting for their reform. So don't give me an example with the cry of Europe. The cry of Europe is always wished by Bulgaria and have no doubt that if we want it, it will happen now. Do you know why we won't do this? We will not do this, especially by the DPS, because we believe that it has not exhausted the opportunity here in the Bulgarian Parliament to achieve what needs to be achieved. This body must be truly managed in such a way as to carry out the very big tasks that it has in front of it, both in terms of the budget and in terms of municipalities and in terms of European programmes. There's no way three people, there's no way this model can do all these things. There is no way that when you leave half of the municipalities without audit control and give it to private auditors, there is no way that this will be an effective model in the conditions of Bulgaria. And a bunch more things we can argue about. As for the Pre-speaker in a reply, a colleague from GERB, I have no information, but I do not think that you are leading us astray. I have no information that the Court of Auditors has carried out incompetent, repressive checks in GERB municipalities, even more so in the course of the entire campaign and so far this has not been heard and no one has said it, but if you do, you will carry them out. But for the competence of the members of the Court of Auditors, do not argue because of the simple fact [[the President signals that time has run out]] that you can see their biographies [[noise and lines]] and professional character.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u86	I don't think three seconds is a good reason to scream out of the time frame.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u87	On the ninth second I pressed, but you're right there shouldn't be any calls from the gym. Right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u88	I'm addressing you!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u89	For the time being, it follows the leadership, but the MPs believe that it is not enough and they need to remind us what to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u90	Do it for everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u91	You, Mr. Gechev? Personal explanation, but please do not attack personal and do not enter into the mode of subsequent personal explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u92	Thank you, Madam President. My reaction is understandable. I am amazed that Mr. Tsvetanov allows himself to hold a tone of MPs. Mr. Tsvetanov, you will not determine who is speaking or how to speak. First of all, I've been to more school than you have. [[Comments and calls from GERB.]] You've graduated from gymnastics in the first place. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u93	Please, Mr. Gechev!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u94	And you are not the person to teach the MPs how to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u95	Please, Mr. Gechev! We have a particular text in the Rules of Procedure about how we should treat each other with respect, the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u96	This one first. Secondly, Mr. Tsvetanov, there is a judicial system in Bulgaria. At first instance, she condemned you. Isn't that right? If I were you, I wouldn't have a goonsurat to sit here, not make recommendations. [[Noise and lines.]] Good morning, Mr. Tsvetanov. [[(Reply from GERB: You have bankrupted the entire state, and now you come to speak!......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u97	Here we go, next personal explanation, and we go into explanation mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u98	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gechev, I expressed what the Bulgarian citizens found in 1995 and you were part of a government. [[Replys on the left.]] Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u99	Please! Didn't you just give me a remark about a place call and that I didn't react?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u100	I see you're pretty nervous, pretty worried. It is not good to be so for a professor if you pretend to be one, and you are competent. When you don't have legal arguments, when you don't have your reasoned statements, you move on to personal attacks. That's your right. You're not the one who should be evaluating me. Yes, I graduated from the National Sports Academy, and I graduated from the postgraduate qualification UNWE Law. [[(BSP LB:) You have not finished anything! The UNWE?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] And what... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Where do you teach, Mr. Gechev? [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u101	Please, no lines! Mr. Gechev!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u102	You can ask Mr. Kornezov because he personally experienced me. What I can tell you is that what I have as an evaluation by Euro-Atlantic partners for my professional activity, I wish you to receive at least support from your parliamentary group for what you have done. [[Applause from GERB.]] But I can tell you that we have never thought of having such a team before and that it will be managed by such a professor as you, because we know what you can and we know to what level you have created conditions in the country so that Bulgarian citizens lose their savings. Because you were part of a government that actually destroyed and bankrupted the state. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u103	We are going back to the debate on the Court of Auditors. According to the order of the requests for speech: Mr. Iskren Veselinov, Patriotic Front; Mr. Martin Dimitrov from the Reformation Bloc; Mr. Vladislav Nikolov from GERB. Mr. Vesselinoff, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm not gonna talk about roulettes because I wasn't a croupier and I don't have the necessary qualifications maybe. Indeed, the wheel is spinning and, unfortunately, every turn creates a new instability in the institutions, something that needs to be overcome. Today we are actually having this conversation because a little more than a year ago, under the previous majority of BSP and DPS, the term of office of the Court of Auditors was terminated early by changing the law. They say they have debated widely, and because only these two parties were in parliament then, they most likely debated on their family, as they say. I don't know who the bride was, who the groom was, but in general the result of this debate is inconclusive to society. We want this debate to be held, to be held in this format of parliament, which, I believe, represents the majority of Bulgarian citizens. We have our remarks to the current project, as Mr. Tsonev just said, it is evolution compared to what was in 2010 because we still have a collegial way of making decisions. We will support this project at first reading from the Patriotic Front. Of course, the debate on whether the vice-presidents should be two or three, or four, it can continue after that, but the point is that we need to come out legitimately from this hole that created BSP and DPS once in the confidence of the citizens, and the second time in the trust of our European partners, so we will support this at first reading. We reserve the right to a lot of adjustments that we will propose between first and second readings. I hope this will not be another Stalingrad battle, but really hear all the motives and create a law that will work sustainablely over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u105	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I want to remind you where it all began. It started a few years ago when we found that the decentralised format of the Court of Auditors then led to the appointment of auditors on the ground with the great influence of local political factors and that the Court of Auditors was not an effective body, that there was no effective control. I mean, imagine it so that the local auditor eventually has to write an audit report for the mayor. And since the mayor, any mayor of any political party, in this region is an important factor, this decentralised approach showed that the auditor did not have the necessary autonomy and strength to write a serious report. That was our finding years ago. That is why we have reformed and introduced the system of General Audit, whereby centralisation leads to precisely this, the burden of reporting in the management of the Court of Auditors in order not to have this local dependence. Since then, only certain colleagues have very much disliked the change, because the change has led to control on the ground, and so mayors who are accustomed to not having control over their activities for years suddenly realize that Bulgaria has the Court of Auditors, there is control, and since then we see that certain political forces are very angry and oppose this version of a centralised and working Court of Auditors. With regard to a colleague who is no longer in the Chamber, but who said that when Parliament is a college body and the Council of Ministers is a college body, this means that the college bodies are most effective. Therefore, his logic, I would say professor's logic, came to that point, and the Court of Auditors on this finding must be a college body. However, colleagues, let us at least divide a legislative body from a control body, make at least this small difference. Parliament is first of all a legislative body with control functions, but first of all a legislative body. The control bodies must not be collegiate for the following reason. The model you introduced during the Oresharski cabinet leads to the following major distortions. In a 9-member college body, important decisions can and are made with 5:4 votes. We don't even know who the five who supported them are. When you ask them in certain debates, "Who has taken this decision? " You cannot understand which of the nine members of the Court of Auditors have actually taken the decision given. With 5:4 they can make any decisions. The change we are now proposing is this. Important audits may be adopted by consensus and agreement of the Chair and the two Vice-Presidents. It has to be the three of them to be accepted. And when we ask who is guilty (as for KTB so long, colleagues, we cannot clarify the guilt), who has supported this audit? That's how the control organs are supposed to be. When an audit comes out of a control body and there is a question: "Who issued it? Who's behind him? Who has supported it?......................................................................................... is behind That is why there are audits with reservations or without certification. The new model must be explicitly adopted by the Court's management. This eliminates the option, which in the past was very dangerous, namely, the local auditors to control the mayors in their places and there was no real control. Therefore, control systems must be centralized to avoid local influence. This is the first very important argument. The second important argument is that it must be clear who makes the decisions and who is behind them. By the way, I would like to remind you that when colleagues from BSP and DPS changed the model in the case of an elected mandate and a working Court of Auditors, they changed the mandate during the Oresharski cabinet and now say that too often changes have been made. I'm sorry, but there's a big dose of demagogy in this thing. You violated the mandate, you changed the model, you didn't seek consensus at all, you did it under sharp confrontational pressure, and now you go out and you say, "But very often changes are made in the Court of Auditors." That, I'm sorry, is an absolute classic example of demagogy. Well, you set that principle, you showed that bad approach, and then you blame it on others. Let us not be surprised, since we have colleagues who have turned a similar approach to demagogy into a way of life. I'd like to remind you of something else. There was a chair of a parliamentary group which, in its legislative programme or speech under the legislative programme, for the entire parliamentary session as a first initiative, pointed out then the change in the Court of Auditors when you violated the model of the General Officer and returned this one, to call it a broad college principle of 9-member Court of Auditors. Then a chairman of the then ruling parliamentary group within the three Oresharski coalition said that this is his main priority to do so. Notice the top priority! Even then, I realized that, unfortunately, there are colleagues among us who do not want the Court of Auditors to be a strong controlling body. That is the problem after all, and it is hidden behind many words, behind many speeches. Unfortunately, there are many colleagues among us who do not want the Court of Auditors to be a strong control body in Bulgaria, as was during the term of office, in which there were two Vice-Presidents and two Vice-Presidents. I'm saying other control bodies didn't do their job so well back then. I can give you, unfortunately, the unpleasant example of Philip Zlatanov's notebook. It's about the same time. The Court of Auditors then refused such practices and worked professionally. However, during the term of office Oresharski, precisely because they worked professionally, were replaced these people, and the model was replaced. Now what is being done is the most sensible thing that has worked, which has shown that it has worked, that it is effective, to be restored. For this reason, with full conviction, fellow Members, I will support this proposal. Don't forget, I'll say one more argument. The control of the Court of Auditors in respect of public procurement is also restored with regard to administrative criminal liability. I wonder if this restoration of public procurement control, which will be together with the state financial inspection, is a very important moment for restoring the actual control of public procurements, as well as whether this is a reason why Members of Parliament should not like the change. Do the Court of Auditors not wish to restore this control of public procurement? This is another matter which also deserves our attention in plenary. So, colleagues, something working, unfortunately, was destroyed. Our role is to restore it. Note that when a strong control body is created, there will be serious opposition. We know the reasons and reasons. They are about the same ones that reduced the control of excise goods. We know this motivation, but it must not stop us from making key decisions. Because this is what we promised Bulgaria to be another, to be reformed, to be strong! Thank you. [[Private applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u107	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Vladislav Nikolov of the GERB Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret that the interest in this discussed topic is so weak by colleagues from the DPS and BSP, but they give their statements, as always, behind-the-scenes, in the corridors, because that is their approach, so is their way of working. [[Replications from the MPs Maya Manolova and Cornelia Ninova.]] But I was the man who told you at the end of the past National Assembly: "Colegi, do not do this. Do not do this, because this will be one of the first laws that we will bring about change. Why would it be like that? I'll just remind you. You have done this thing. You have introduced the old law, which has been made on a quota principle. May I remind you how the quota was allocated until 2009? [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] May I remind you that there were six people from the NDSV, two from the DPS, one from the BSP? Where's the professionalism? We removed that, but you wanted it back, and last year you brought it back. That's why you're in so much pain right now. And your two blades still remember who were so active then in the speeches... Don't smile at me! I remember who was so active, and why did they do that? In order to return this same principle, these same quotas. You're smiling, but you remember who's chairman of the Court of Auditors, right? [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u109	Speak to the court, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u110	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, if you do not remember, I will tell you who is the President of the Court of Auditors, although everyone knows it. So I don't think we needed to let this lady in here because I don't see what expert opinion she was going to give us. This woman, who was a councilwoman of your former chairman Mr. Stanishev. If you don't remember, by the way, his immunity has already been asked to be taken away from Brussels, perhaps due to very large achievements in the field, perhaps some policy guidelines.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u111	Yours is sentenced to first instance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u112	This is with regard to the Court of Auditors. What we're betting and what we've always bet on, we're working for professionalism. This will bring professionalism back to the Court of Auditors. And such people or gentlemen of yours, who lobbyists are trying to do it, and right now as little girls howling in the room, I think it's their turn to tell the truth to each other. A man who has failed Bulgaria in two governments, a man who is a coriffe in the economy, will now tell us how we will do the Court of Auditors! [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u113	Concentrate on the debate on the Court of Auditors, not on the pre-speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u114	Our bill foresees the following. We'll have a chairman and two deputies.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u115	Three deputies.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u116	Come on, stop calling!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u117	Yes, a total of three members, unlike the 9 members... [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Don't call from the gym to replicate me!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u118	Please don't call from a place and don't engage in a direct dialogue. You'll have the opportunity to say a few lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u119	Members will be elected by public procedure, which guarantees their professionalism. Maybe you don't want to have professionals, or maybe you're not comfortable with professionals right now, because you're not in power?! That is why you insist that the old rules remain and that the old people be inside, because they are obviously not professionals and you are comfortable doing such audits. The new law also lays additional requirements on employees who will increase trust in this institution, which, I assure you, is not very high, thanks to the actions of many Members of the National Assembly, so trust in this institution is not so high. You have turned this state institution into a party machine that will be obedient to you and carry out your political orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u120	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u121	Dear Mr. Nikolov, I am only making a reply because I think that even from a gentleman's point of view it is not correct to attack the current President of the Court of Auditors in its absence here. However, I did not hear a single remark in political direction towards her. I think you should have attacked her when she was here, not when she wasn't here. Otherwise, colleagues, in my opinion, there is no point in arguing what to be as a structure of the Court of Auditors. There are different types of shitty palaces in Europe working both in one and in the other. It's pretty much a theoretical argument. If you remember, last year I also voted against that bill for nothing else, but because I did not want us to enter the spiral of permanent replacement of members of the Court of Auditors. This spiral is continuing right now. You also heard colleague Yordan Tsonev, who said that a new spiral is coming when someday the power changes. Is that what we want?! Every two or three years, we're gonna have to switch sets all the time?! If you read the Law on the Court of Auditors, its functions are described inside and it is described that the first condition to which it must meet is independence and objectivity. These are the things we have to protect. We have entered, and I hope that you will not give up this thing when you propose the new members of the Court of Auditors, to have a hearing here in the Chamber. There's plenty of time for nominations to see if they're really independent and objective. What we fear and all fear is that this Court of Auditors will be politically obedient. That's what we have to run from, no matter who's in charge. And when you started this way with the Court of Auditors, continue with the Financial Supervision Commission, continue with the BNB because there are other control institutions that do not do their job. Don't leave things in just one direction because, you see, BSP changed them a year ago, but at the same time, guarding others. That's what needs to be changed. Bulgaria will not recover until there are strong control bodies. They will be strong control bodies when they are politically independent. If we don't guarantee this thing, there's no point in the work we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u122	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague, I tactfully didn't make any remark, but now I'm gonna tell you what mine was. My remark to the President of the Court of Auditors is in terms of morality. This country suffers from a lack of morality. If she were a man of high morals, as Stanishev's advisor, she wouldn't have taken this post. By doing so, it has compromised the Court of Auditors. We're talking about independence, we're talking about professionalism. What independence will there be when the President has been an adviser to your former President? Where's independence? [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] That's what I'm talking about. It's about morality. That's what I meant. When appointments are made to people who have been very close to you or to us or to anyone, the main remark is in terms of morality, because otherwise there is no independence in this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u124	The word is Mrs Cornelia Ninova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u125	Please, Madam President, let's extend the group's time. Dear rulers, I have heard three arguments so far that you want to amend the Law on the Court of Auditors. These are the following: before the government of BSP changed the Court of Auditors, it worked competently, exercised strong control. We've been worried about this, and that's why we switched inspectors. Let's see some facts outside of this empty, political talk. How did she work before the shift? Colleagues, I am providing you with a reference to the unaccepted reports in the implementation of the 2013 programme: 21 audit reports have not been adopted. This is not professionalism and competence. A few concrete facts. The audit of Veliko Tarnovo University, which was scheduled to start on 11 February 2013 and ended on 3 June 2013, ended on 2 April 2014. I'm a year late. Audit of the Ministry of Youth and Sports 8 months late. Is that professionalism and impartiality? That is to say, I reject your argument that before our shift, the Court worked professionally and impartially. Your second argument is that the current inspectors there are not competent people who can carry out this activity, the third is that they are politically biased. Dear importers of the law, you read the laws you bring in, people. There is no law here for such reasons. There's no word that they're incompetent, that they're politically biased. However, you have pointed out two other reasons that I would like to challenge in front of you again with arguments. Why are you changing the law? "Intensifying the control powers of the Court of Auditors. However, behind these words by content is the exact opposite of the Court of Auditors' control of 160 municipalities. How do you increase control by reducing the volume of checked objects? Your second argument is cheaper to make savings by reducing the number of people. Honourable Members, it has repeatedly proved that the budget of the Court of Auditors is not affected by the number of members of the collective body. We showed it to you with numbers. Moreover, when it was sole management and when it is with this number of members, the budget is the same. There's not a penny different. So your argument is not serious either. Moreover, you are currently changing the management boards of commercial companies. You're increasing them all over the place. I give you an example of El Bulgarikum, a state-owned company that you changed the board of directors to yesterday. You picked them up from three to five, and that's what you do everywhere. What kind of savings are you talking about?! Come on, enough of this fictional argument. Give me something more essential. This is your second step towards eliminating the independence of the Court of Auditors and controlling it politically. Your first was when the Budget Act was adopted, where you excluded the Court of Auditors from an independent budgetary authority and included it in the general budget, which depends on the Council of Ministers. What did you do there? You obeyed the Court of Auditors financially. The authority to verify the Council of Ministers shall be paid by the Council of Ministers. How do you expect these people to be objective when they are waiting for their salaries from the Council of Ministers to check? That was the first step to finance. You're now proceeding with the personnel. Once limited on money, you now want to put people who are comfortable with you, but not in the interest of public life and the objectivity of the work of the Court of Auditors, but in the political interest of being dependent both financially and personally, to listen to you and to do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u126	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Ninova, I must say, you have aroused my interest with these inspectors. If you really have changed the so-called "inspectors" from you within the Court of Auditors, understand auditors, colleagues, this is what this is about, things are actually much worse than we think if such political appointments have been made. If you call inspectors the senior management of the Court coats and have appointed inspectors as senior auditors, that is also not good. So I take that with a smile, but actually things are very serious, colleagues. Once again here, I'm going to mention what was also commented on the left side of the body's collective, how good that thing was. The organ is controlled. In the case of a control body, it is very important to know who is responsible for each individual action. It is not possible to take decisions that award audits and which are really extremely important, to take majors five to four, six to three and so on and then not to be clear after all why and whose responsibility it is for making such a decision. So in this case, the model that was acting before is significantly better than the so-called "colllegial model" and here any comparisons with the Council of Ministers, the Constitutional Court and such things are absolutely irrelevant, I would even say unacceptable. With such a high control body as the Court of Auditors is, it is indeed very important to know whose responsibility is and who has ordered each audit and what the results of it are so that responsibility can be claimed if it has not given result or someone has not done their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u128	Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u129	Mrs. Nino, I will make a reply to three things from your speech, although I have an opinion of others, but I will express it when I take the floor. Firstly, regarding delayed audits. True, you set an example here with two audits that probably have other reasons to delay. Make the full reference to see that there are transitional audits and they cannot be transitional from one year to 2014, and the deadlines within which they need to be completed are those set. As for small municipalities. Do you know what this is about, fellow Members? These are one third of the municipalities whose budget is below 10 million. lv. A large part of this budget, even 90% is for salaries and social security. There is no significant activity there, but every year auditors are wasting their time to go and put an indulgence in the accounts of these municipalities, validating them very often quite quickly, because there is no time, and this is a waste of audit time, which can be redirected to sites that are risky, which the risk assessment has identified as such. Because the purpose of the Court of Auditors is not to go post-factum after everyone. It is important that it also has prevention and that is why it is important the current control that we now want to restore, because this current control, when done in these small municipalities, is much more effective because it brings prevention and not. But these municipalities, honourable Members, first of all, are not tossed to private auditors because there is no need for their accounts to be validated by private auditors. Secondly, they are also an element of control of the Court of Auditors, only after a risk assessment. The third, Ms. Ninova, the Court of Auditors under this law has an independent budget, which is voted by the National Assembly. It is not in the budget of the Council of Ministers and it is not the Council of Ministers that pays her the money. Make a difference between the different budgetary organisations and the way their budgets are formed. Here with you, in this Chamber, in two days we will vote on the budget of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u130	Third line? I won't. We're listening, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u131	I will only comment on Mrs. Stoyanova's line because the colleague before her did not say anything in my speech. He did the line like that, in general, and probably someone else's. He was commenting on things that I never said at all, so I'm not going to respect him in my asshole. Regarding Mrs. Stoyanova. You say that there were transitional periods and it is normal that such a delay. I do not think so because the audit of Veliko Tarnovo University was determined by order of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors Tsvetan Tsvetkov at the time. He says when to open and this is 11 February 2013. And he sets a deadline for presenting the project 3 June 2013. They tell themselves when and when they should end. What transition period, what transition remainder?! And instead of 3 June 2013, as they defined themselves, this thing ended on 2 April 2014. It was an objective delay, not circumstances that imposed it. Here is described the whole case because this was done for other reasons, intentionally. As for the exclusion of small municipalities. Mrs. Stoyanova, aren't there public procurement in these municipalities? Does all the money go to pay? How come 160 municipalities don't run public contracts? That's not true! These public procurements can very quietly be subject to scrutiny by the Court of Auditors. Thirdly, the liquidation of the independent budget. You know very well that, at first reading in the Budget Act, you adopted such changes that you are subjecting the Court of Auditors to the will of the government. Yes, their budget does not accept it, we accept it, but so you have changed the rules for determining the budget of the Court of Auditors that you de facto subjugate them financially to the government and to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u132	Are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the discussion? Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u133	Aren't they going to speak on the part of GERB?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u134	Mrs. Manolova, I've invited you several times. Anyone?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u135	Mrs. Stoyanova said she'd speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u136	Anyone? If there isn't, we'll close the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u137	Honourable Members, Madam President, this bill that we are dealing with today has already been submitted to Parliament. We've already discussed it, we've already heard the arguments of his importers. In a word, this debate has already taken place. However, not exactly as stated by the Reformation Bloc in 2013, but in 2010, when GERB first chased the Court of Auditors, it chased the compositions of all other mandate bodies and ordered on the floors of its officials. Therefore, honourable Members, this debate is the brightest proof that GERB has not changed, that they continue what they were doing during the first government of Boyko Borisov, that they are the same, one to one without change That is why it sounds extremely ridiculous the statement of the leadership of the parliamentary group of GERB and the Prime Minister of this government Boyko Borisov that they are different, that they want compromises that they want dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u138	The debate is for the Court of Auditors, Mrs. Manolova, and not for GERB's behaviour.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u139	I'll explain why. Because, honourable MPs, GERB's understanding of dialogue has also shined during this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u140	We're talking about the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u141	For you, dialogue is when you hear only your own voice, when the one you are discussing with whom you are insulting is not able to answer because you have deprived him of the opportunity to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u142	What were you doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u143	What scared you so much Mrs. Lydia Rumenova that you are afraid to hear her arguments from the parliamentary platform? I would say that this debate has been a déjà vu since 2010, but I will not be quite accurate because it involves three more elements: the Reformation bloc, the ABC and the Patriotic Front, which very quickly intercepted GERB's manner of insolence, which forgot very quickly that they would be a corrective who forgot their promise of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u144	If you do not return to the subject of the Court of Auditors, Mrs. Manolova, I officially note that you are speaking outside the subject of the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u145	Dear colleagues, as social payments and retirement age froze, so have your election promises. [[GERB noise]] Both the reformers and the patriots and GERB. It is obvious that the Court of Auditors should be replaced quickly. It's one of the first bills you've submitted. It is clear why, it was heard during this debate because of the upcoming local elections. Obviously GERB, already you, as an accompanying party, needs one such body to be used for a party bat to enter the municipalities to tell which mayor to be hit, who to fix, who to postpone. This is the only explanation why GERB and the new ruling majority...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u146	Kostinbrod!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u147	...the organs become less collective and more sole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u148	Tell me about Kostinbrod!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u149	Because it can be easier to pressure a President of the Court of Auditors because it is easier to record the initials of one person of the President of the Court of Auditors...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u150	And Kostinbrod is a whole word!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u151	...not eight persons, members of the Court of Auditors in a notebook of the kind of Zlatanov. Because the notebook may disappear, but the manner is here and it reproduces during this debate. In fact, this is the shameful thing, not just the fact that you have left the previous chairwoman outside the Chamber. The agreement on how you will distribute positions is already clear. Here the patriots timidly objected that instead of two vice-presidents, the Court of Auditors should have three, i.e. the four parties from the new quadruple coalition to distribute their positions in the higher audit body of the Bulgarian state. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Chairman of GERB "Requirements from the three accompanying parties." [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] It is amazing how these four people will make the decisions by consensus. Seeing as how you two are getting along in the government...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u152	Time's up, Mrs. Manolova! I have asked you several times to return to the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u153	...we very much doubt that the activity of this body will be completely blocked.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u154	I've asked you several times to go back to the debate. You have wasted your time talking that is irrelevant to the subject of the Court of Auditors. You probably had something to tell us about that, too, but you didn't have enough time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u155	I'll tell you at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u156	Okay. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u157	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, it has become clear today that a large part of the left actually has no idea what the Court of Auditors should be doing. What is more interesting is that they gave clear examples of the fact that, during their management, the Court of Auditors was not, in fact, an independent body. On the contrary, the Court of Auditors has shown us a number of examples of how the Court of Auditors is an instrument of political racketeering, because the Court of Auditors has become a registrar and a legalist of expenditure over the past year and a half. There are many examples that I can give, especially when an audit is being carried out by the Court of Auditors under the Law on Political Parties. I can give you examples of how a political party through public funds was practically engaged in commercial activity, but it drained those public funds that were provided by the Bulgarian taxpayer. But the gentlemen on the left naturally don't like it, and then their eyes are closed. They then forget that the Court of Auditors is a body that must carry out a really professional audit of the activities of municipalities, political parties and a number of public and public organisations. We didn't see that thing for a year and a half. Today, however, we see that colleagues on the left have the entire mechanism for placing an independent body, as should be the Court of Auditors, in a tool for racketeering and exercising a political dictatorship. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u158	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to get the debate back to an expert level. All we have heard at the moment are speeches from colleagues and we have heard them several times already on different topics. There are some point points that are being commented. It is clear why the changes are being made, at the very least because we must respond to the recommendations of the Group of States against Corruption, which are referred to in the second implementation report adopted on 10 October 2014 and published on 17 November 2014. I will allow you to know the recommendations specifically of the Court of Auditors and why we are actually making changes. I think the answer is given right here. For a reference he wishes, he can get acquainted on the website of the European Commission. 57 states the following: "Bulgaria has undoubtedly come a long way to improve its regulatory framework for transparency of political funding, to promote greater self-discipline of political parties in this area and to improve supervision primarily by the Court of Auditors. GRECO nevertheless wishes to emphasise that the new legal provisions on the transparency of political financing need certain stability and calmness in order to become progressively effective and should save the revision through which the legislation in the institutions, their governance, too often passes. GRECO notes that the legislation adopted in April 2014 reorganises the Court of Auditors. The latter was reformed only three years ago after the amendments made in December 2010. GRECO believes that they "successfully" have implemented the recommendations that require an improvement in the supervision of political financing. The April reform this year, fellow Members, noted, has sparked allegations of political instrumentalisation in a particular importance for electoral objectives and financial supervision of political institutions for a year. The amendments made now create a completely new structure and leadership of the Court of Auditors, thereby replacing the current President and its alternates and, according to the alleged reverse changes in the governance structure of the previous ruling coalition. It is argued that the new legal provisions will make the management of the Court of Auditors more susceptible to pressure from political parties, while the Third Round report, § 114, for reference, so far has positively assessed the operational independence of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has satisfactory guarantees of independence, as well as the reputation of reasonable distance from parties and parliament. GRECO therefore calls on Bulgaria to ensure that the concerns expressed regarding the reform and operational independence of the Court of Auditors are not realised. It also invites Bulgaria to fully implement the partially implemented and unfulfilled recommendations on Theme 2 - Transparency in the financing of political parties, etc. 58, in conclusion, hope on this particular Theme 2 - transparency in funding political parties - by 31 July 2015 at the latest, we will take appropriate measures. This bill, colleagues we propose, responds fully to the recommendations made and is in line with the Public Finance Act. So we are not offering something new, something radically different, but simply taking advantage of the best achievements of the current legislation, enriching it so that it is in line with European requirements. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u160	- What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. Debates closed. Please allow the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. I put to the first vote the Bill on the Court of Auditors, No 454-01-60, tabled by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 165 MPs: 115, against 39, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Would you like a re-vote? Here you go. Negative vote? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Your voice is accounted for, Mr. Svilensky. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I've been waiting for your vote to be... [[noise and lines]] But you still have a chance to ask...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u161	I came in and...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u162	I followed your late entry very carefully and waited... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It doesn't matter, you're entitled to a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u163	Thank you, Madam President. If my voice is actually accounted for, I apologize, but I still want a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u164	It's a re-vote. Vote 170 MPs: 115, against 44, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Turnover. [[(Noise and lines. Communicating:? Rest!?]] Colleagues, there's a second point, break's at 11:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u165	Madam President, honourable Members! Unlike you, I have had the opportunity of the Budget Committee to hear Mrs. Lydia Rumenova's motives, and they do not coincide with what we see as motives for the so submitted bill. You have not convinced me, fellow Members, that with the new Law on the Court of Auditors, you minimise the possibility of external influence and pressure on the College. Well, how is it harder to put pressure on three people than on nine?! I can't agree with that. You say you restore professional principles and operationality. How?! As we currently have a 9-member college of various specialists dealing with distributed cases, and the new college of three has to review 33,000. pages because 400 reports a year are pages between 500 and 1000, which is impossible and shows that professionalism will go far from what we expect. The lack of any profiling of specialists in the management, of the two alternates who cannot be a specialist in everything, we understand that one is when we specialize two and another is when the body is much larger and is collective. The activities of the Court of Auditors were brought into line with the Public Finance Act, international audits and modern practices. Well, this law is the same one you had before. What are modern practices is not clear. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u166	Did you read the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u167	You're running out of time, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u168	Madam President, let me finish. If you believe that the old law was in violation of the Public Finance Act, then you should also declare all audits invalid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u169	Did you read the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u170	Thank you. Second negative vote, Mr. Gorov. [[Replications between MPs Georgi Turnovalyski and Stanislav Ivanov.]] We all have to read, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It would have been more honest if you had stated absolutely categorically that there was only one thing about changing the current management of the Court of Auditors with new, obedient people who had to carry out the orders that were submitted in its previous version. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u172	That was your motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u173	Why am I saying this? Because the information I have is that he is preparing to appoint the person who received direct orders from the Ministry of Interior of Mr. Tsvetanov what to look like the Court of Auditors' reports regarding the verification carried out at the Ministry of Interior. The other reason I voted against is that this haste clearly shows only this. Because the previous non-dialogical governance, as you called it, waited almost a year, we did a very complete analysis of how the system works, how it works under that version of management of the Court of Auditors, and only then did we submit the changes that were proposed for amendments to the Law of the Court of Auditors. Now, on your knee, you brought back the old version, which, anyway, you were willing to push it through with your one, only, one task: to bring the old people back into the system! I sincerely hope that you do not return the previous Chief of the Court of Auditors, who was one of the visible political figures in the Court of Auditors and a person who carried out the orders of your parliamentary group in the previous Parliament. The other reason. Colleagues have spoken very long and specifically about the possibility that the Court of Auditors itself should work from now on with three people who will be responsible, practically, only the two of them for audits, and, in fact, these people will have to be entrusted with extremely many tasks.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u174	There are four types of audits.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u175	Only it's over four hundred a year if you want, we can continue this conversation... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u176	Keep it up with your colleague, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u177	...but it's over four hundred a year, so from this point of view, there's no way to support such a bill. That is why I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u178	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u179	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against and did not even attend during the discussions of the law on the changes you wish to make in the Court of Auditors, for one reason only, your undemocratic behaviour from the very beginning. That you did not allow the current President of the Court of Auditors to attend during the dispute, to hear his opinion, at least out of respect, if nothing else, do this thing. You know that in any case, you will accept the law as you have proposed it. In my opinion, this is unacceptable parliamentary behavior, this is confidence in strength, not in reason, it is the destruction of democratism in its basis. I can't vote for something that's been corrupted from the start. You remember, by the way, when we changed the Law on the Court of Auditors last time, that the President of the Court of Auditors was here, five times coming out on this stand, waving a finger at the MPs, yelling at them, but we put up with it, we heard it. You can at least from the best man's shame to do it, but there is no obvious shame in you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u180	Moving to the second point of our weekly program: LAW FOR THE RATICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF THE ECONOMIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE FEDERAL MINISTERATION OF THE ECONOMIC AND ENERGY OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY FOR THE CONSERVATION OF THE STATE IN THE FACT OF THE SITUATION OF THE SITUATION OF THE SOFIA, BULGARIA AND OF THE REPRESENTATION OF THE MINISTERATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE CLOSTERS BETEILIGUNGSELLSCHAFT MBH Report of the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u181	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber and vote: from the Ministry of Economy "Ljubchen Petrov, Deputy Minister; Vesela Bajraktarova, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Education and Education, Directorate of the Ministry of Economics and Economics and Economics"..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u182	We vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u183	♪ I can't believe under the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the conclusion by mutual agreement of the damage to the case-law of the case-law of Cemekof Ltd., Sofia, Bulgaria, and of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of Bulgaria and of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria. 11 December 2014 At its extraordinary meeting held together with the Committee on Budget and Finance on 16 December 2014, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the solution by mutual agreement of the damage to the case The meeting was attended by Lyuben Petrov Deputy Minister of Economy Ivan Kondov Director of the Directorate of Judicial Protection, Katya Todorova Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lyuben Petrov. Protocol No 51 of a meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 3 December 2014 approved the drafts of the two agreements, subject to subsequent ratification. The agreements were signed on 5 December 2014 in Berlin by the German side and 8 December 2014 in Sofia by the Bulgarian side. The case with the German company "Kleisters" is related to an unrealized investment project for the construction of a cement production plant by the company "Kremikovtsi" AD, by a joint project company "Czemeko" Ltd. and is secured by the investment guarantee of the federal government. For the construction of the production plant, Tsemeko LTD needed an EIA authorisation, which failed to obtain until 2008 and was withdrawn from the project. The Federal Republic recognizes the existence of a case of guarantee and compensates for the compensation of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria by claiming regressive claims to the Republic of Bulgaria amounting to EUR 4 186 704. The lack of a solution to this problem freezes the issuance of investment guarantees by the German government for projects in Bulgaria and adversely affects the attraction of foreign investors. In the joint expert meetings held with representatives of both parties, the problem of mutual agreement is resolved in the form of empathy. The Bulgarian side, in the framework of the meetings held, rejects the legal basis of the regression claims made by the German side. Under the Agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria should pay the Federal Republic of Germany 50 per cent of the claim made, or EUR 2,93 352,02. The payment should be made within 7 days of the entry into force of the Agreement. After the payment is made, the Bulgarian side will be entitled to require recovery of investment guarantees from the federal government for realization of projects in Bulgaria, which in turn would lead to the preservation of positive trends in bilateral trade, attracting new investments and expanding the presence of German business in Bulgaria. During the discussion, the people representative Rumen Gechev asked why the rule of law, a member of the European Union, such as Bulgaria, is obliged to provide a guarantee by another government, if there is a refusal to issue EIA and judicial decisions on the case. People's representative Delyan Dobrev explained that it was a silent refusal and said that the political party GERB parliamentary group would support the proposed bill. People's representative Ferihan Ahmedova pointed out that the motives of the court show why no EIA authorisation has been issued and disagreed with the proposed bill. The chairman of the commission Petar Kanev expressed his opinion that the case "Clusters" is a purely commercial dispute, passed through all the competent state authorities and institutions of the Bulgarian court. In response, the Deputy Minister of Economy pointed out that it is important for the Ministry of Economy as such to preserve the business environment in Bulgaria and restore confidence by German investors and to issue investment guarantees by the German government. He added that if the agreements are not ratified by law a claim will be filed against our country for the whole damage through international arbitration and the negative trends for business climate in Bulgaria through German investors will increase. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany to resolve by mutual agreement of the damage to the case
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u184	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Before we move on to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance under point two, I announce a 30-minute break. [[BSP LB.]] Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that we use the rest and invite a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which is the competent authority, to propose an impact assessment to the government. What does what we read in the report mean? He didn't get an EIA assessment. Does anyone have to explain to us whether the procedure is broken in accordance with the law, and if I do not claim any claims, who is guilty? I ask you to invite an official representative from the Ministry of Environment and Water to participate in our debate. It's not for $4 million, it's a debate on legality, principles and dignity. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Don't replicate me from place to place. Please. This is my proposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u186	Is there a reverse offer? I put to the vote Mr. Bojinov's procedural proposal to be invited during the debate a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water. What's the name again?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u187	Representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u188	Representative. Okay. Please, voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: 32, against 3, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u189	The sitting continues with the discussion of the ratification bill. We have heard the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism so far. We are about to hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. [[BSP LB.]] Colleagues, let's go to a meeting! Break's over a little while ago. Order, please! [[BSP LB.]] You're the only one who thinks so! Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u190	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the mutual agreement of the damage to the case-law of the case-law of Tsemeko. - Ltd. -Sofia, Bulgaria, and the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Klosters Beeiligungsgesellschaft mbH. - Kempen, Germany, No 402-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 11 December 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At a meeting held on 16 December 2014, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the solution by mutual agreement of the damage to the case The meeting was attended by Luben Petrov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Vesela Bajraktarova, Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Katya Todorova, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Margarita Zlatanova. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lyuben Petrov. The agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany to resolve by mutual agreement the damage to the case-law of the case The case, which is the subject of the above agreements, is related to an unrealized investment project for the construction of a cement production plant by the Cremikovtsi JSC, which is secured by an investment guarantee of the federal government. In 2005 the German company "Klosters" started participation in the project Bulgarian company "Tsemeko" Ltd. For this capital, there is an investment guarantee of the Federal Republic of Germany to cover political risks. The company's business is the production and sale of slag cement. For the construction of the production plant on the field of Kremikovtsi (AD), Tsemekko ( OOD) failed to obtain permission under EIA until 2008 which is why the German company was withdrawn from the project and stopped its activities and the company was about to be liquidated. The Federal Republic of Germany recognises the existence of a guarantee case under the investment guarantee existing for the project and compensates for the investment guarantee by claiming regression claims to the Republic of Bulgaria amounting to 4 million. 186,000. EUR 704 principal and interest due to infringement of the Investment Promotion Treaty. After joint expert meetings, an agreement is reached to resolve the problem by mutual agreement in the form of empathy. Under the Agreement signed, the Republic of Bulgaria should pay the Federal Republic of Germany 50 per cent of the claim of 2 million. 093 thousand. EUR 352, with the payment to be made within 7 days of the entry into force of the Agreement. The agreement with the company "Clusters" provides for the refusal of the company "Clusters" from the self-claim of additional claims for compensation to the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the damage to the case "Cemeco" Ltd. The agreements are subject to ratification by the National Assembly as they result in financial obligations for the State. The agreements shall enter into force on the day of receipt by the German side of a notification sent by the Bulgarian side by diplomatic means on the implementation of the internal legal procedures for its entry into force. If the notification is not received by 15 January 2015, the agreements shall not give rise to rights and obligations for both parties. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the solution by mutual agreement of the damage to the case-law of Tsemeko-Sofia, Bulgaria, and of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the "Klosters Beteligungsesellschaft mbH. - Kempen, Germany, No 402-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11.12.2014."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Debates are open. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, in order to be able to better acquaint the House and to understand exactly what you are going to vote, you need to know that there is nothing here financially-economic, as there has not been an EIA assessment in the way of recording either. To get to know you better, I'll give you some more information. In 2006, the initiative for investment intention began. The Commission for Protection of Competition later refused to move towards the acquisition of the site. EIA is later denied on the basis of this, as the ownership is not of the company itself. There are two judgments of the court of a three-member and of a five-member Chamber. In what we are currently being offered, there are exactly three figures, except for the time limits for signing... 5 and 8 December this year. The figures are the following "50%." On one side we were asked for four million and something euro, on the other hand, we have to pay two million and one hundred thousand euros or approximately four million euros and one hundred thousand levs to pay Bulgaria. Why? If this way we will pay for the coffees of President Plevneliev, as well as the Prime Minister, I do not agree! In this case, we must protect our Bulgarian interest, not that on this basis we will improve our trade relations with Germany, give them money. There's no telling what this will lead to. Nowhere is it said, except that in 2009 we were suspended the federal guarantees that issued the Federal Government of Germany for Bulgaria, nowhere is it said whether they will be released or, if they are released, what economic effect this will have on us. The decision is mainly political. Such a political decision can be described as giving the pensioners 40 leva. Christmas supplements, and the Federal Government of Germany - BGN 4 million Christmas supplement. Rudely put, that's what it is. Here, in this Chamber, with what the government has stated, we will be reading the German economy for a case which, according to our justice system, is not a case! According to our judicial authorities, which, according to the Constitution, are independent, the problem is solved. If the firm itself really had a problem and did not follow part of the procedure, there are international courts where this thing can be carried away and resolved. But notice, this is not decided by an international court, it is a decision after the company complains to the federal government and it has decided to grant it. I'm asking you here in this room to think very seriously about this. Here today, the decision is not simply economic or financial, but the question is whether we are going to overrun the decision of a three-member and five-member panel of the court, a supreme court which, according to our Constitution, is an independent body. Therefore, whether we acknowledge our own Constitution or not! I urge you in connection with this case not to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u193	Any lines to Mr. Alexandrov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this case, perhaps four governments are trying to find a solution to both I, Mr. Dobrev and the governments before us have sought a way to protect the interest of the Bulgarian state. Now it is strange and strange, perhaps the representatives of the Ministry of Economy will say what new has appeared and what the new circumstances are in order for this ratification to lie ahead, as I am not clear so far, perhaps there is new evidence that is at the heart of the ratification of this agreement. In practice, we must now legitimise two million euros which the State agrees to pay to Germany without any grounds for doing so. It is important to have a good economic relationship in this case there is no dispute. Every single economic minister has fought for it, I'm sure. At the end of the day, however, neither this case has violated our trade, nor has there been an obstacle to investment. We have much bigger problems with German investments, I give an example of the German trains, which we have not yet paid. After all, the MPs are given the opportunity to vote on ratification, which is contrary to the Bulgarian legislation, even more so the Supreme Administrative Court and the three member states, and the five member states have spoken! Right now, what are we doing? That we should break the law, not listen to the justice system, but pay two million euros?! The fact is, it's probably not about the money. However, the issue here is principled: the Bulgarian state is not guilty. It does not follow the responsibility of not realizing this project of Tsemeko, as well as any damage in connection with the investment guarantee taken by the German state to be sought by the Bulgarian government. The company has committed acts in violation of the country's anti-monopoly legislation and has failed to comply with the requirements of the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Construction in the Area in the course of its investment intention. There are no legal and factual grounds for recognition, even partially, of the German claim. Ladies and gentlemen, there are four different decisions of the Supreme Justice Institutions "The Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court," for various aspects of the failure to comply with the Bulgarian laws by the German investor. The investor has failed to comply with the instructions of the relevant authorities, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Commission for Protection of Competition and the decisions of two members of the Supreme Administrative Court. The actions and claims of the German side do not comply with the grounds and procedures of the contract, notice, since the distant 1986. There has been no investment made by "Tsemeko" in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria which, within the meaning of this Treaty, has been confiscated or expropriated. The German Ministry, without informing the Bulgarian state, has unilaterally decided to compensate the investor company. Ladies and gentlemen, until now, unless we have received a corresponding document in the Ministry of Economy, we have no official document signed by the relevant Federal Minister or by the German Government, we have no such thing! And on what grounds do we want to ratify this agreement?! I was quite surprised when the ruling Political Party GERB did not wish to have a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water, because there is the main problem. However, I have the opinion of the Ministry from the caretaker government and I will read you some things that are scandalous: The proposal of the Ministry of Economy contains no justification, legal grounds and arguments why the Council of Ministers should adopt a new position on the case, which does not correspond to the position expressed so far and does not correspond to the decisions of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Bulgaria on the case. The documents do not explain who has prepared or proposed the draft Agreement. There are no grounds or legal arguments as to why the draft proposal and the materials to it are recognised directly by 50% of the claims of the German side. " - Why not 40%? Why not 45% or 30%? What do you mean?! Who decided it should be 50%, and on what legal basis?! Again: the problem is not how to deal with the Germans, and there is no legal basis because Bulgarian legislation is suppressed. Now we have to legitimize this violation. Moreover, see what the Ministry of Environment and Water says in the text under art. 1 of the draft agreement with the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany Well, that contradicts the actual facts and circumstances of the case. Order No 134-77 of 11 November 2010 of the Supreme Administrative Court has been confirmed that Tsemeko (Czemeko) Ltd does not possess the quality of a contracting entity within the meaning of the law. In conclusion, we state that the draft agreement does not properly reflect the facts of the case and insinuates the guilt of the Bulgarian country, and in particular the Ministry of Environment and Water. The conclusion is that the documents required by the competent authority in order to prove their capacity as a contracting entity under the Bulgarian legislation in force. Now we have to pay someone who, without informing us, has paid something that does not comply with the Bulgarian legislation. The problem is that this decision must be taken by the Bulgarian Parliament. That is, we tell all institutions and justice: "Your decisions do not interest us, we trample them, we trample them, but we have to find the right solution, and the easiest way is what they tell us outside, we do this. After all, four governments are really very difficult, but we have made some progress step by step. And perhaps the one who officially presented the document to me of the German government and the German minister came out here and showed it to everyone to say: "We will now pay 2 million. EUR budget funds, funds of the Bulgarian beneficiary, I will change my mind. Let's see this document, not like that someone looked at the ceiling and said, "Give me, we'll give you not 2 million, not 3 million, let's one and a half, come on, we shook hands at 2 million." The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's not serious, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u195	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Opportunity for lines. There aren't any. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I did not accidentally make the formal proposal here to have a legitimate representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water to ask him a question and to answer to you, looking into your eyes, what circumstances have imposed a change in the position of the Ministry in recent weeks. Before I make my speech, I will draw my conclusion. Today, the Bulgarian Parliament faces the problem of demonstrating legal nihilism and public self-destruction of Bulgaria and the state institutions of the country, as well as of experts who have worked in good faith to form the position of the Republic of Bulgaria. To this I would like to add that one who is not self-respecting is not respected by anyone. And if you think that with this pathetic gesture of fulfilling the other side's desire, although being a great power, we will gain some respect, it is a delusion. Why did the Ministry of Environment and Water in all its political publications to the last of the caretaker government stand for the same position? All the Chambers of the Ministry did not find that the so-called investor (s) had the quality of a contracting entity. By Decision No 216 of 15.09.2009 the Minister of Environment and Water refused to rule by an EIA decision precisely for this reason that the entity applying for did not have the quality of a contracting entity. Why is there no quality as a contracting entity? The colleagues before me have already spoken, I want to systematize it. Because, with the entry into force of Decision No 174 of 20.07.2006, the Commission for Protection of Competition declared the contract between the concerned "Tsemeko " Ltd. and "Kremikovtsi " as small. That decision of the Commission shall be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. And the Bulgarian court in 5 members confirms the Commission's decision to protect competition. On the basis of this decision of the Supreme Court, which refused the right of the applicant to be a contracting entity, the Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria refuses to issue an EIA assessment. This decision of the Ministry is appealed for the second time in the Supreme Administrative Court. The Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria ruled on the Minister's decision and strongly confirmed the Commission's decision on the protection of competition and the previous five members. See what the court is referring to. The Court refers to a Bulgarian law, quoting what is the contracting entity of an investment proposal, according to § 1, item 1. 20 of the Environmental Act, which operates in the Republic of Bulgaria. Okay, when all this is a fact and when the German side, as Drago Stoynev says, without informing the Bulgarian side, compensates this investor, I will say it without quotes, but he has put nothing in and lost nothing, and under this agreement since 1986 also does not have the quality of an investor, what now? The Bulgarian state will retribute the German state for what it has given to its pseudo-investor? I have nothing more to say, except that if you support this draft decision, you will demonstrate legal nihilism and any one of you who speaks of changing the judiciary for good loses this right to claim and defend, because the court has acted in accordance not only with the Bulgarian law but also with the Bulgarian national interest. What interest are you voting on now? What interest does this denial of justice lead to in Bulgaria and the dignified conduct of ministers, experts, judges and Bulgarian state institutions? What's his interest? Someone promised someone who was the one who promised? Who expects respect for selling their country's interests? That's why I said at the beginning that it wasn't a question of $4 million. The question is principled, and everyone who votes must know what responsibility it is. I congratulate all those who, in the years back, four members of governments have acted dignifiedly and legally. I think today this Chamber of Parliament will not demonstrate otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u197	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Opportunity for lines. Here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, to the question Whose interest today are we to protect?. The answer is: the interest of the private German investor, a private company. If we have brought Parliament today to a level not to defend the Bulgarian people, not to defend the Bulgarian interests, but to defend a private German firm, this means that we are not in our place, this means that our voters who sent us here must immediately say..................... to this Parliament, in which a Bulgarian Parliament allows itself not to defend the interests of its people at a time when everyone convinces us that we should adopt a budget where there is no money for mothers, there is no money for social gain, there is no money for anything, but there is money for a private German company.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Professor Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Bozhinov, honourable colleagues! I can't accept one of your assessments. You said it was about legal nihilism. That's a very inaccurate definition. Dear colleagues, this is not a legal nihilism. There are magnificent lawyers here among the rulers, and the assessment of colleague Bozhinov is incorrect. Why? First of all, things are very simple. There is a decision of the Bulgarian judiciary. You, fellow Bulgarian MPs, in a moment, will come out irreversibly on the screen with your three names, who voted, how against the Bulgarian judiciary! I am very interested to hear the Bulgarian Parliament's MP cross over the Bulgarian judiciary and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria! I'd be very interested to see what these three names are, first. Secondly, I disagree with the definition of legal nihilism, because what are we discussing here? We don't have an official document from the German state! On the ear, many expensive trips took place to Germany, perhaps from the team of Mr. President or Mr. Prime Minister. On the eve of his journey he made a gift from the Bulgarian people for four million! Is there a document, honourable colleagues, from the German state? I won't. So this is not a legal nihilism. [[Noise and lines from right and center.]] Therefore, we have no right, as MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament, to discuss rumors held at coffee; in the absence of a document from the German state to trample on Bulgarian legislation! Colleague of Bozhinov, this is not a legal nihilism. This is a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u201	Mr. Alexandrov of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Bojinov, allow me to disagree with you, especially in the part where you said that nihilism was legal. Rather, this is the creation of legal practice at least in my opinion. If other such cases follow from here on, should the Parliament be pronounced in the same way for them? Imagine that tomorrow an American company came to pierce shale gas with federal guarantees and said that it could not implement a project in Bulgaria based on lack of EIA, based on our legislation we should probably adopt this practice. This is my question to the lawyers now you will say, since you are more important in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u203	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. I see you're going to use it. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To the two last replicates, dear colleagues. Since it is shameful to admit, but it is wrong to be silent, I have chosen condescendingly the words of Nihilism, not what you corrected me with. As for Mrs. Ahmedova's remark that these four million are for a law firm, for the interest of a private company. It's more serious than that. The private company got its $4 million. Eventually it's about a classic corruption scheme that happens in even the greatest countries, and we have to return... [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Don't replicate me. Stand up and say it here from the stands to sign up. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u205	Mr. Bojinov, please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u206	That is to say, I am suggesting that since the money has already been given to the company, they must now recover to the German public sector, so we are creeping so hard. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u207	Thank you for your coat, Mr. Bojinov. Please, any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It was expressed that this was not a financial problem, but rather a political one. I would add that it is also an image for Bulgaria. The problem is that we are not defending a private German firm because the agreement is between the countries Germany and Bulgaria. Therefore, I ask my colleagues from the DPS to prepare a little better. We've been going through a lot of lawsuits. I think there's no problem with them. They're being implemented. However, the question is: from 2006 to 2009 why is there no solution to this case? Is the EIA company responsible, refusal, approval or anything? I believe that some of my colleagues here can also answer this question. We do not need to listen to someone from the MOEW now, as the then minister should also be in the Chamber. I think that's the problem, and that's where it comes from. As for our relationship with Germany. The lack of a solution to this issue will lead to freezing of the issuance of investment guarantees by the German Government for projects in Bulgaria, which adversely affects the attraction of foreign investments. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] I want to tell you that Bulgaria currently wants to remain the only country in Europe for which the German government will not issue such investment guarantees. Are we not here to support precisely the development of the Bulgarian economy and business in Bulgaria and to attract foreign investment?! So I'm asking you to get into the very problem of where it comes from and why we're getting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva, for your speech. First line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Saveclieva, you said that we risk the Bulgarian country suffering consequences in terms of limiting investments on the German side. But this is not the first problem Bulgaria is involved in. Once upon a time there were colleagues will remember, two purchased planes and we had to ask the German side to pick him up because there was a cruel corruption deal. [[Replys on the left.]] Yes, I'm making a line for Mrs. Saveklieva, and please don't interrupt me. The other, Mrs. Saveklieva, which was a great, spectacular scandal. Here a colleague on the left said that we haven't seen the cars yet. You know the huge scandal about ordered trains, some cars we haven't seen yet, but we have paid them! Obviously this was the scheme of work that applied previous management, thanks to which a scheme will indeed suffer the consequences at the moment without being party to these disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u211	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Alexandrov, the speaker in this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u212	Mr. Chairman, I'm very grateful for your definition.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u213	With the best feeling.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u214	Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Saveklieva, I also have the best feeling of making a reply, as the negotiators said that we would suffer consequences and, as far as I am aware, I think that since 2009 no federal guarantees for Bulgaria have been issued by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u215	It's 2006!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u216	If you wanted to end this so badly, now, instead of banging in 2014 in the final, you should have done it in 2009 in the final... then the last termination of EIA is precisely by Nona Karadzhova, who is the Minister of GERB at that time, in your first government. So let's move this case a little bit. The question really arises: what exactly is sitting in the back, what exactly happened? Are we paying for the coffees now? Are we paying for the calls? What's going on?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u217	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Saveclieva, to your sentence that we should prepare ourselves better, to tell you that I know almost everything about the case. I will quote Decision No 216 of 15 September 2009, signed by Nona Karadzhova, which reads after all the explanations: square meters. I'm familiar with the case, with everything. Nona Karadjova signed this. If you're not familiar with it, you know that. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u219	Thanks for the line. That was a third line. Opportunity for the doppelganger Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mr. Ivanov, yes, you're absolutely right. Mr. Alexandrov, it is clear that everyone in this country is waiting for GERB to come to power to solve the problems that some others have previously created. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Yeah, that's right! And Mrs. Nona Karadzhova has done the job, Mrs. Ahmedova, who should have done your minister in the Triple Coalition. And he didn't do it! I'd like to ask in this case: who is sending the signal to the KPC and why? If we're gonna talk about interests, maybe you're the people who need to explain them here in this room! [[(Yells:) Bravo! Applause by GERB.)]] Because the problem from 2006 to 2009 has no solution! [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Yeah, that's our decision, of course. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u221	Please, no call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u222	We want Bulgaria to be... [[Replications from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u223	Mrs. Ahmedova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u224	We want Bulgaria to be a predictable and stable business partner if we want the Bulgarian economy to tolerate any positive developments.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u225	Thank you. Next statement Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see an interesting behavior on the part of the BSP and on the left right now. There are people on the subject of law who are not lawyers. Far be it from me that there are no good lawyers in BSP who can speak. It's more like there's probably some other reason here, and I think it's not that complicated to think about what's causing it. It is obvious that these people do not want to mention some facts, and what is really legal if things are looked at carefully? If a person deepens, he will find that the deeds are not one or two. There are about a dozen cases that the company "Clusters" and "Cemeco" have led in Bulgaria during these years. They are of a variety of results, but there are among these cases and decisions of the Supreme Court, for example, I will even quote you to make a reference, although I am sure that you have it, but, for example, Decision No 7484 of 2007 in administrative case No 3620. What will you see there? You will see that the Supreme Court has cancelled the silent refusal to issue the EIA, which should have been issued by whom? From the Minister of Environment and Water in the mandate of the Triple Coalition. How's that sound? Are things getting easier and easier to understand why, after all, this unpleasant situation is now and why, in fact, a private legal case has become political? It has become political, in fact, in the way that last week's political case has become, which the French ambassador has submitted as unpleasant information. Something like this is happening here. And I think we can be active enough and just not let things escalate to such an extent, because the impact on Bulgaria's image will indeed be very great. Given these circumstances, obviously since the German State has actually paid to this private company, based on the existing policy, a certain amount, and the German State has every reason on the basis of the Investment Act to claim them now from Bulgaria, we obviously do not have a very large field of choice what to do. This agreement that we are being offered is actually one, perhaps not such a bad conclusion to the whole saga. Because what's the other option, gentlemen on the left? The other option is to find ourselves on arbitration, arbitrage similar to the one for Belene, for example, where you also put us, again for a much more serious amount with all the accompanying expenses for fees, legal fees and so on. And taking into account those court decisions that I quoted to you earlier, I wouldn't be too confident to appear in such arbitration. I think that an out-of-court settlement in this situation that we have been brought to, obviously because of the loss of the three coalition and its governance, is perhaps the best solution. We will support this decision. I'm thinking here, and with that I'm ending, that maybe the Ministry of Economy could be a little bit more thorough and present all this reference that I'm talking about, about these 10 cases and more cases, and really colleagues could see that things aren't one-sided at all, and it's not quite true what's being said here on the left, hardly disrespecting court decisions and things like that. It's just not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u227	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Just to assure you that at the end of the debate, a representative of the Ministry of Economy will be given the opportunity to present his thesis. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, after having examined precisely, albeit part of the case-law on silent refusal, after you have found that the silent refusal and the hypothesis of silent refusal took place in 2006, did you know that the environmental and water commission at the time dealt with complaints on this case? How is it that the Bulgarian partner, Kremikovtsi, has been idle? How is it that the Bulgarian partner Kremikovtsi has sabotaged his foreign partner in administrative procedures? I fully support everything you say about the responsibility of the State for protecting foreign investment.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u229	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kanev. Here I see a good example of giving an advantage.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u230	Colleagues, since I'm a little surprised we don't have a direct broadcast, and we've become very active, we need to stop scratching our tongues. I would like to ask my colleague Petar Slavov to ask his father, Vlado Slavov, the very respected friend of mine and my friend, a lawyer, what would he say about Order No 99-38 of 16 July 2010? That's the final definition. And how would your father react to the fact that we don't comply and do nothing in this case? This is the final order of the five member states of the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u231	Before that, a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When we talk about image and legality in the state, I think we should take into account the judicial system -- it was good, it was bad, and the decisions she made, not trying to impose decisions in Parliament that contradict the decisions of this judicial system. Once again, I would like to call on you: do not take away the functions of an organ that has already condemned something, to try to smear it with some pseudo-decisions, hiding under pseudo-patriotism and almost caring about the economy of the state. And another thing, fellow Member, the arbitration against Belene is not one of us, but one of your coalition partners who stopped Belene, so if you have any claims and any grief about Belene, contact them, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u233	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u234	And an extension of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u235	Time extension, please! Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Mr. Kanev, I'm the MP here. If you have a question, ask me. If you have a private legal case that you want to comment on with another lawyer, refer it to him. That's your right. I'm just gonna tell you that court proceedings usually end with a court decision and not with a definition, so maybe a consultation here wouldn't really be unnecessary. [[Radio, applause]] And the other thing that your other colleague was asking me, maybe a little off topic, but I have to answer after all. Look, Mr. Ermenkov, if Belene's scheme hadn't started, there wouldn't have been anything to stop, so obviously it's not the people who stopped this scheme and this drain, but the ones who started it, so that's the whole point, and that's why we're in arbitration, not for anything else. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u237	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any further comments? Mr. Ananiev, come in. My request is that you stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The question was asked, whose interest is it? It is the interest of the Bulgarian economy and of the Bulgarian business to support this agreement. This is key because since 2009 the German country has not issued such insurance guarantees for the German business to invest in Bulgaria. According to BNB data, 214 million were withdrawn from Bulgaria last year. We must release the investments and come German investments in Bulgaria. It's key. The agreement must therefore be supported. Also to colleagues on the left, who twice mentioned the amount of 4 million, the amount is 2 million. Fifty percent is taken over by the German side.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u239	Four million leva!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u240	Yeah, yeah. Four million. Half the money is covered by the German side. Since she felt there were prerequisites for that, that means there's a reason. I think this agreement should be supported in order to remove German investments in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u241	Thank you. Possibilities for lines of Mr. Ananiev's speech? First line, here you go, prof. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Member, let me get this straight. We have no agreement with the German side, as she, colleagues, has sent nothing to the Bulgarian side. We don't have anything from the German side. We don't have anything from a ministry, not from a government, not from courts. I won't! There's a private conversation over coffee, and we're guessing where and when someone made a promise to the German side. That's the truth. Secondly, in terms of guarantees. The international business course explains when political risk guarantees are given. Correctly, the German side of 2009, a colleague, did not issue such guarantees. Since our country has been a member of the European Union since 2007, there is no way for the German side to cover political risks. They are for developing countries and countries that have problems with the judiciary and democracy. Besides, there's no connection. Don't speculate between two million and two million. EUR, which is more than 4 million. lv. for the German country, which is so stingy, are so tragic for them the 2 million and something that they will stop investment in Bulgaria. Are you serious about this?! That private German companies would be interested in one of their companies making a mistake in their investments?! In addition, my colleague, you have missed something important, and there is no investment at all. Where is the investment from the German side? They haven't made a single penny investment. What are we returning? They had expenses.. several fields to Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, there is no investment in Kremikovtsi. What do you make up for? Also, keep in mind something else. The precedent was hinted, and he's very serious. Colleagues, any foreign company that does not agree with the Bulgarian legislation will ask us to pay their bill, and it can be in billions of dollars in demand for oil, natural gas and others. It's an unprecedented precedent. I've never heard of any parliament dealing with relationships of private companies where the court ruled. [[GERB's line.]] Because, see, the German state has decided to issue a guarantee to the German firm. Isn't that right? It's her decision. How is it that the German state does not send us a letter because they know the laws of Europe or any other country will send us to cash an invoice for their decisions?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u243	Mr. Gechev, get your head in the game.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u244	So tomorrow they're gonna send us to cash in some investments from Burundi. Therefore, there is no document from the German State. There are rumors and someone wants us to pay him the expensive coffee for 4 million of the Bulgarian people. Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u245	Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ananiev, there is a document that is an Agreement between the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria to solve the case by mutual agreement of the case for the damage of What does it say? In the interest of mutual resolution, given the refusal by a German party and the termination of the contract, it is proposed that these disputes be terminated by mutual agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u247	Date?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u248	What's important in art. 1? In 2005, the German country made a certain investment and the Federal Republic of Germany recorded that it would compensate the German country for political risks in Bulgaria. This is for the period 2005-2008, colleagues. The Federal Republic of Germany says it will compensate the German side for the political risks it can bear in our country between 2005 and 2008. What do you say next? For the construction of a production plant on the property of the former state company "Kremikovtsi" the project company needs permits from the state authorities in our country for the period 2005-2008. The project company in vain during this period (2005-2008) has tried to obtain an EIA decision from the competent Bulgarian authorities. As the project company cannot start its planned activity without this decision, the investor was withdrawn from the project in 2008 and stopped its activities...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u249	She hasn't started.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u250	.. The project company is about to be liquidated. There's the document. It's clear what happened. The German state in 2005-2008 knew what was happening in Bulgaria, insured its German company from political risks and not from something else. The German firm comes to our country, takes these political risks, and now here the colleagues who were in the government of the state at the time are pretending to be onion eater or onion smeller. That's my line, Mr. Ananiev. Let's stop speculating. Thank you. You should have been a little more specific. [[Private applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u251	Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u252	Dear colleague on the left, the facts say that since 2009 this risk is not covered for Bulgaria, which is the only country of the European Union for which the risks are not covered. We must unblock German investments by giving a clear sign. Today's decision that the Reformation bloc will support is a clear sign that we want German investments in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u253	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u254	Colleagues, within three minutes, I'm unlikely to be able to tell you everything I'd like to know. Since I am the chairman of this committee, I have been able to get to know a lot more documents than what you have.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u255	Do you have any?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u256	Yes, we do. First, I want to answer a colleague who asked why there is no EIA. EIA does not exist because production is dirty. If you find me dirtier production in the Kremikovtsi than what it was, welcome! EIA is not for a very simple reason. Now I'm going to try very quickly chronologically to tell you. Here come the Germans. They run a joint company with the state firm "Kremikovtsi." The Kremikovtsi is the leading country in the joint venture. The Indians are coming. They see it smells like good business and refuse to do it with the Germans. They want to do it themselves. At some point, this legal structure dries up. In fact, the EIA is not being given. This is confirmed by both three Member States and five Supreme Court Member States because of the lack of a contracting entity of an investment proposal. That's the whole story. In 2009, they went away. In general, since 2005, I have been involved in many ratifications, with some interruption. I want to tell you that this ratification smells. It smells like a political agreement, smells like something that needs to be done as a gift when you have to go somewhere to visit. I just want to tell you what bothered me, and I'm done. Time's coming along pretty fast. This is already a practice of the Bulgarian Parliament when we turn personal responsibility into collective irresponsibility. So we did with those billion and four hundred million levs on the Health Insurance Fund, when Simeon Djankov put them in one decision of our parliament. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u257	It was a law, not a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u258	There was nothing to be done, ma'am, it was. However, I would now like to ask the Parliament that there is clearly a ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, three member states, five member states, the KPC, it does not matter to us. As I observe the movement in this House, I am almost certain that the agreement will be ratified. I would just like to ask: and is it not insulting to you that in issue 103 of the Official Gazette of 13 December 2014, a few days ago, this ratification has already come out? [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I'd like to read you § 1. This is Decree No 412 of 12 December, just for the sum. The amount has been established, the budget of the Ministry of Economy has already been raised. Paragraph 1 expressly states that the decree is to be adopted on the basis of art. 109 of the Public Finance Act and on the basis of the agreements ratified by the National Assembly by law between the Ministry and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u259	Are you reading the decree of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u260	Yes, the decree, it already cites ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u261	Mr. Kanev, you don't have time, don't get into a debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u262	I'm telling you, it's good, it's fast, but it's a bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u263	You have 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u264	For 20 seconds, thank you for participating in this incredible debate. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u265	Thank you. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will surely rightly ask why I am taking the floor in the manner of conduct, as the President of the sitting has so far been leading it in accordance with the rules. I shall take the floor in accordance with the procedure for the further manner in which the sitting will continue. In view of what Mr. Kanev quoted as saying, that a decree of the Council of Ministers referred to an unaccepted, unspoken act by the National Assembly, in my opinion, we cannot continue to discuss this matter further. Because it is a forgery to refer to the government as an act of parliament, which is expected to be adopted, but it is not accepted at the time when what was quoted is published. Therefore, Mr President, you hardly have any other option at the moment than to end the discussion on this matter.. I am doing this as a procedure if you yourself have doubts, and move on to other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u267	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. These are all probabilities and hypotheses. [[Noise and lines.]] From that point of view, I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u268	Mr. President, here is the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[The National Representative Rumen Gechev gives the President a copy of the Official Journal. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u269	Welcome back for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u270	I have a reverse procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Stoilov, did you read this issue of the Official Journal (s) that text there, or did you hear it from Mr. Kanev in the way he was quoted, perhaps in part, and not word for word?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u271	I heard it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u272	It is probably a decision of the Council of Ministers, which you know is published in the Official Journal. Please get acquainted with the decision first, read the Official Journal and then make procedural proposals. [[Applause from GERB.]] There was time, you could have read the text for two minutes. In this text it probably says: "In the event of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. This is not the only case of a decision of the Council of Ministers, which is with subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. I'm making a reverse procedural proposal. I don't think we should be voting on something anyone hasn't read.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u273	Mr. Chairman, please read the decree so we can get our bearings.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u274	I accept Mr. Dobrev's offer. We're moving on to... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I think it's been argued enough. We're moving forward with the debate. I'm asking for a statement. [[The National Representative Dimitar Gorov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] In the manner of conduct, there was already a statement. We've heard your arguments. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u275	Mr. Chairman, you are the first among equals and cannot accept the opinion of Mr. Dobrev and reject that of Mr. Stoilov. You have the only right to put this motion to a vote, and this thing should be voted on, not to say what you accept and what you do not accept. The other thing you can do is read what the Official Journal says, because if the drug scandal, which was once repeated, I think we should look for new culprits in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u276	Thank you. A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u277	Read it, read it!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u278	Okay, I accept your offer. We're moving on to the debate. What exactly do you want me to read? [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u279	We're listening, Mr. Kanev. [[The National Representative Petar Kanev makes a statement with the President.]] I understand from my colleagues that a text from the Official Journal is required. There's no such procedure. On the basis of what, whoever is in charge of the meeting, will read the Official Journal. [[General applause from GERB. Noise and lines.]] You want a way of keeping it? Go ahead, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u280	Madam President, honourable Members, let us remember the chronology of what is now happening. There was a procedural proposal from Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, given that there was a visible violation, to end the debate. After that, there was a very correct proposal for the debate to be continued. Here, the one who led the meeting for you said to Mr. Dobrev: "I accept and continue. In my opinion, the normal and quite legal situation is: there is a procedural proposal, it is voted, then we continue. Otherwise, if we want to do what they want here, let's introduce anarchy and do whatever we want. Thank you. However, I propose that we follow the procedure and the Rules of Procedure which we have all voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u281	And what is the procedure, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u282	Do you want me to repeat it one more time?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u283	Say it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u284	I repeat the chronology to hear it: there was a procedural proposal to end the debates, given this text that is there. Then there was a reverse procedural proposal to continue the debates, because what was quoted was not right. As a result, the chairman said: "I accept one, I do not accept the other. In my opinion, it is normal to make the vote on the termination procedure and then continue. Because otherwise any chairman can accept something and not accept it, and I don't know where we're gonna get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u285	A procedure has been made to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u286	Postponement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u287	Colleagues, one says "recession," another says "recession." You don't even have time to sort them out anymore. From the place they say "delay," you're talking to me about termination.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u288	It is about ending the discussion and delaying the debate so that the positions can be clarified.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u289	Which one? These are two different hypotheses in the Rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u290	Okay, delay and reverse procedural proposal to proceed. These were the two procedural proposals to be voted on. At least I think it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u291	It was for termination.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u292	Fifteen minutes off to get to know the stenogram what you wanted. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u293	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The hearing is ongoing. During his interruption, I met the transcript and Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's request. Especially from the transcript, he stated the following: I take the floor according to the procedure for the further manner in which the sitting will continue. In view of what Mr. Kanev quoted as saying, the ruling of the Council of Ministers refers to an unacceptable act by the parliament that we expect to be adopted. Therefore, Mr President, you hardly have any other option at this time than to put an end to the discussion on this issue. In accordance with art. 52, para. 2 with a view to the development of the meeting the procedures and possible hypotheses are: 1. Abort the meeting. 2. Adjournment of the hearing. 3. End of discussion. 4. Adjournment of the deliberations. 5. Postpone the vote. From a verbatim reference to the stenogram, none of these five points have been the subject of proposals by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. That's why the sitting continues. Are there any MPs who wish to participate in the discussion? Mr. Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u294	Madam President, honourable Members! Somehow it has not been understood what the case we are dealing with today and the ratification that we need to vote on today. There is an investment intention by the company "Clusters" and in 2005 for making investments in Bulgaria. For one reason or another, this investor struggles with the public administration from 2005 to 2009 and fails to receive any response when we talk about the Ministry of Environment and Water in terms of its investment intention. That is the problem, fellow Members, is not the judgments of the Court cited by you in 2009 and 2010, which say essentially that this investor is not entitled to seek EIA. The problem is that this response, read by colleague Ahmedova from the DPS of the Minister of Environment Nona Karadzhova in 2009, was to be given in 2005 If this were done then, we would not be standing here debating this issue. Mr. Stoynev said what has changed through these four governments, where the ministers have been more than four even what is new so that Minister Stonov can sign the agreement. And while I was a minister, this topic was the subject of consideration by working groups, created in particular on the topic. Unfortunately, in the time when I was a minister and probably Minister Stoinev, the working groups could not reach any mutually beneficial solution for the two countries. The Bulgarian side insisted that we were fine, while the German side insisted that it wanted to receive the full compensation of 4 million. euros with accrued interest. Subsequently, however, at the time of the office, there is a breakthrough, so to speak, in these negotiations and the working groups agree to share this damage, this risk in order to avoid legal disputes with each other. That's the information we have. So the new thing that happened during the caretaker government is that an agreement has been reached not to go to arbitration cases and to obtain another arbitration case, this time against one of the biggest investors in Bulgaria - Germany, but to settle this issue between the two parties with an agreement. Speculated with the subject investment, almost these guarantees were not a problem for state investment. It is nice to see the figures for investments in Bulgaria when talking and being naked. I have the statistics on German investments in Bulgaria and I will read you what they were before and after the suspension of investment guarantees. In order not to blame me for using economic cycles of high economic growth and subsequently of recession, I will use years that are average or short-term, I will avoid quoting 2008 which can be considered as a year of construction boom, of high economic growth and, respectively, 2009, which can be considered the opposite. So if we look at the figures for 2007, the German investments in Bulgaria are 386,5 million. German investments in Bulgaria last year are 268 million. Following the suspension of the guarantees in 2010, the first year after the suspension of the guarantees, German investments fell to 80 million. From 365 million to 80 million euros! In 2011, they became minus 54 million. So let's talk here that these German guarantees don't matter at all with them and without them, it's not serious. With regard to the ruling of the court, you speculate that the National Assembly does not execute judgments and so on, the court ruled in 2010 and ruled on the substance of the fact that the company is not entitled to apply for EIA. The point is, however, that from 2006 to 2009, the investor did not receive this response from the Ministry of Environment and Water and for these three years tried to realise its investment intentions. This is the subject of the dispute here today. Mrs. Ahmedova from DPS reads to us how there was an MOEW position of the office about how this was wrong and how the Bulgarian side was rights. This is indeed the opinion of the working committees. Perhaps she decided to attack the ratification supporters because the attack was the best protection so as not to talk about the period 2006-2009 and the inaction of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which led us to this situation. However, since the Ministry of Environment and Water has already been mentioned, I would like to read another text because there are more documents than those quoted by opposition colleagues. This is a letter from Minister Iskra Mihailova, who you remember being elected minister in the Oresharski cabinet from the DPS quota. The letter is dated 4 November 2013. In conclusion of the letter, the following is said: "After all the above, I am confident of the need to find a political way out of the unacceptable situation that has been created. " This is the opinion of Minister Iskra Mihailova. Here. [[shows]] With her signature, I also quoted the date during Oresharski's office. Mr. Stoynev used an expression of the investor trying in vain to obtain EIA. It really was for nothing. In the period 2006 - 2009, this investor was really trying in vain and this word was very correctly used. Why is it in vain? The colleague Saveklieva mentioned that it is interesting to see who filed the complaint at the KPC. Do you know what happens if we see who filed the complaint at the KPC against the investment intention of this company "Tsemeko" from the cement association. [[GERB lines.]] Why is the cement association complaining? Because if this investment is made, they will have another competitor in Bulgaria. They're an interested party. If we are looking somewhere for a conflict of interest and private companies that have been benefited, we should rather look in that direction. What are the options from now on? There aren't many options. One option is to accept the agreement reached in which the two countries Bulgaria and Germany, and the governments of Bulgaria and Germany, have nothing to do with private companies. The case with the private company has long been closed by the German side. Let us accept the agreement and divide the damage that has been caused by this, I repeat, the silent refusal by the Ministry of Environment and Water to do its job in the period 2006 - 2007 - 2008 by the end of 2009 when Minister Nona Karadzhova issued the decision. That's one option. The other option is to reject this ratification, which we are likely to obtain another arbitration procedure against a highly respected trading partner for Bulgaria not only in terms of trade, but in terms of investments in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u295	- What's the line? You have the floor, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u296	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, would you explain what has changed since the time you were Minister of Economy, what new circumstances and facts there is that brings about a new solution to the case?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u297	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u298	Mrs. Ahmedova, I explained what had changed. Unfortunately, you weren't in the room, so I'm going to repeat it one more time because I want to respond to your line. What has changed is that in the period of these four governments and more than four ministers, the two countries in the working group maintained a firm opinion that each of the countries is rights.. the Bulgarian side for our thesis, the German side for the other thesis. [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] This change comes during the office when the working groups reach an agreement to avoid arbitration... [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u299	Please, not from the place you had 2 minutes to reply, you used 30 seconds of both minutes, and now you're calling from the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u300	I can't hear you, otherwise I'd answer your question. In this period of the office, the working groups and the two parties reach an agreement to split the costs. There hasn't been such a proposal with me as a minister, neither with Mr. Stoinev nor with any other minister. Here, Mr. Stoinev nods his head. This is the change that during the service cabinet we have a proposal mutually acceptable for the two working groups to share this cost in order to avoid an arbitration procedure under this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u301	Any other MPs? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. The line from the MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] You want a personal explanation for being commendable? Okay. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] We share the praise, Mr. Stoinev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u302	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't ask for a personal explanation because I didn't accept in any way to make an agreement with the German side because we are not guilty. [[Noise and lines.]] There is a ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court. The fact that investments had decreased, they decreased for another reason. After all, Berhel thermal power is now in December, Minister Lukarski will open the plant, so in the commercial plan we have the best trade with Germany, we are even on a plus. That has nothing to do with it. The problem, my colleagues, is that from 2006 to 2009, repeatedly in meetings and with letters the Bulgarian government has called on Zemeko to meet the requirements of the Environmental Protection Act and such documents have not been presented in the ministry. It is no coincidence that on 15 September Mrs. Nona Karadjova, as a minister, as acquainted with all the documentation, ended the case, ended the term and Cemeko-kun could no longer provide any arguments. [[Comments from GERB. A line from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev.]] That's it. I was nodding my head because I never agreed to any agreement, and you, Mr. Dobrev, didn't agree and did the right thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u303	I understand you didn't have the information... [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, the word for speech is Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u304	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to clarify the mention of a publication, the promulgation in the Official Journal, because we must adhere to the facts and, by reading, we must read correctly and be objective in factology. The ruling, which has been cited, concerns internal budgetary actions between organisations in the Council of Ministers. The reason, which is stated immediately before quoting the interstate agreement, is art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. I will read to you briefly only parts of two norms of this text: The Council of Ministers can approve internally compensated changes to the established expenditures on policy areas of the budget managers with a budget for the state budget on their proposal... (3) The Council of Ministers may approve additional expenditure/transfers for the budgets of the authorising officers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And that's the point. Once the State has concluded such an agreement, it shall take appropriate budgetary planning action in order to be able to implement it. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Since you have cast a huge fog over this: were there negotiations, were there no negotiations, where is the Bulgarian state, where is the German state? [[Noise and lines.]] The German state with numerous verbal notes informs the Bulgarian state of the problem. I will read only a few fragments of these notes: The Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Bulgaria have been present since 2009 in negotiations on the.............................. the claims of the Federal Republic of Germany............................................................................................................................................................................................................ The registered claims derive from an infringement of the company "Zemeko" equivalent to alienation. I ask my colleagues on the left to also note the following: in 2006 to 2008, during which the project is described as a project, the project was led to failure. This is the German state's claim. You will see further that this statement corresponds to all conventions and international treaties to which Bulgaria is a party with regard to the protection of foreign investments. Dear colleagues, our country is in agreement with another country. The Ministry of Economy has concluded an agreement with the Federal Ministry of Economy of the Federal Republic of Germany. This is the subject of this agreement, and there is no way to ask where Germany is. It is the immediate entity claiming the compensation in question. The Agreement and the notes explain in detail how this obligation arose. A detailed comment is made, I would call it the offer of the German state to share the responsibility for the failure in Bulgaria, i.e. the two countries equally share the consequences and the responsibility for this failure. I would like to ask Mr. Chavdar Georgiev again: why did the Ministry of Environment not approve the EIA of the investment in question? What are these cement associations that have also brought the dispute to the Commission for Protection of Competition? But the questions why and who talked about them I don't know how long. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u305	Personal explanation Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u306	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say to you that the Ministry of Environment and Water and myself, as then Deputy Minister, have assisted every German quote investor to implement this project. However, this investor did not understand that there are European laws in Bulgaria, that things should be respected and done as required by law. This investor has not proved once that it is relevant to the specific project, which makes me believe that this was a pseudo-investment and we not only have not done any damage to the German country, but, on the contrary, we have protected this investor from an insane investment of 50 million or more, which at the moment would not have been able to produce a gram of cement, provided that the Kremikovtsi is not working. This I can tell you and explain to you why the Ministry of Environment and Water has done its job properly and wanted to have an investment that complies with the Bulgarian legislation. Everything else means that we simply agree and co-ordinate our national interest in foreign interests, including German interests. Where are the patriot gentlemen to stand up and defend Bulgarian sovereignty, including in the economic area? [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u307	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Do other MPs wish to participate in the discussion? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the issue we discussed. Voting mode. Vote 117 MPs: 102, against 12, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Three negative votes. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] I hope that these are the three MPs who voted against, the others do not vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u308	Yeah. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From BSP's parliamentary group left Bulgaria we voted only three people and it was categorically negative. The other members of the parliamentary group have not voted because, essentially, Parliament has been involved in a minor legal procedure that cannot be voted on. I'll tell you why. Mr. Kirilov, let him not read the decree of the Council of Ministers on a selective basis, because I would have read it in full, namely............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, the Bulgarian government has committed a frank forgery, which must be investigated by the prosecution, citing the law not adopted by the National Assembly and including it as a legal basis in the decree adopted on 12 December 2014 approving additional expenditure on the Ministry's budget. And there's over 4 million. BGN, and this decree was published the very next day in the Official Journal...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I am sorry, Madam President, that the contents of the Official Gazette have not been verified, which you have signed, with this forgery. It's a serious violation that you're trying to...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u309	Time's up, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u310	...politically liquidate the forty-third National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u311	Second negative vote, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u312	He's already spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u313	Mrs. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u314	Colleagues, please don't interrupt the speakers from the stands. Make a personal explanation, he didn't get to the point. There's someone watching these things. We're listening, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u315	Thank you, Madam President. I voted with a clear mind against it, because today the majority who are in charge of the majority have subjected the National Assembly to the will of the President and the Prime Minister in view of pseudo-interests in the development of economic relations between Bulgaria and Germany. We have taken an extremely negative step for our country, as the National Assembly has deprived itself of its sovereignty and verified or supported an absolutely untenable, unlawful, non-constitutional act of the Council of Ministers essentially. Understand, this is a huge mistake that the government made today. Imagine that tomorrow the same proposal was made for you to conclude an agreement with regard to the refused South Stream? What will you do then? Are you going to verify in the same way that there is absolutely no actual or contractual or legal basis? Are we the National Assembly? Absolutely... I'm not gonna use any bigger expressions. Secondly, with this decision that we have taken today to ratify this bill and this agreement, we have violated the entire legal order. Because for such an agreement there is a ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court. We said we would not comply with any courts, we would not comply with any legally defined means of resolving the agreement. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u316	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. This thesis has been developed clearly enough. Third negative vote, Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u317	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, dear colleagues! I voted against the adoption of this law because this is the second case with forgery of a law through the Official Journal. I would remind you that the first case was the famous amendment "Mary Jane" when an unaccepted text was published in the Official Journal which legalized the covert advertising of drugs. Then the National Assembly's leadership allowed itself to publish an unacceptable text. Today, the leadership of the National Assembly turned out to have allowed itself to promulgate an unaccepted law. So you're evolving, dear Mrs. Tsacheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u318	Watch your mouth, Mrs. Manolova, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u319	...and an honourable majority of forgery...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u320	...there is an act of the Council of Ministers that is subject to promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u321	...which you perform in the Bulgarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u322	No one in this room is responsible for the government's decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u323	Yes, but you legalized a forgery carried out by Boyko Borisov's office. And I would further develop what Yanaki Stoilov said, because if the President is an instigator, and Boyko Borisov and the cabinet are perpetrators of this fraud, you are an aide, [[crowd cheering and laughter on the right, GERB lines]] promulging this unaccepted law in the Official Journal. And Mr. Chairman of the Legal Commission, who understood the nature of this fraud and tried to mislead the House, is a fugitive. [[Loud noise, applause and laughter on the right.]] So after another outrageous forgery carried out by the National Assembly with the assistance of the Head of the Legal Commission, the issue is also with Mr. Kirilov's resignation and with your resignation, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Because if the forty-first parliament were turned by the government of Boyko Borisov into a rubber seal, now you are turning parliament into unnecessary...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova, your time is up. Time's up! I gave you a sign, two minutes and eleven seconds. [[National Representative Maya Manolova continues to speak to off microphones.]] I don't doubt it! The hearing is continuing! Mr. Kanev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u325	On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose the bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u326	He's accepted, he's accepted!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u327	Colleagues, lawyers and non-jurists, everyone has an opportunity for opinion. There is a way to attack the laws whether they are legal or not, whether they comply with the Constitution, and this is with a complaint before the Constitutional Court. Do not interrupt the speaker, it is even more than your parliamentary group. [[Replications of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u328	I propose that the draft ratification bill will not read the title to be adopted in a second vote. [[People from BSP LB are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u329	I put the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Who will report the bill at second reading?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u330	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u331	You have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u332	Thank you, Madam President. I propose a procedure for extending the time until the vote, which has just been adopted to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u333	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal that our work will continue today until the end of the procedure for which we have adopted a decision and at second reading this Bill. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Second reading report, Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u334	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany to resolve, by mutual agreement, the damage to the case-case. A single member. Ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany to resolve by mutual agreement the damage to the case-law of the case-law of Tsemeko-Sofia, Bulgaria, and the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Klosters Beteligungsgesellschaft mbH "Kempen," Germany, signed on 5 December 2014 in Berlin by the German country and 8 December 2014 in Sofia by the Bulgarian country. This is the law which has been de facto passed through the Official Gazette.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u335	This conclusion is not based on any legal logic. There's a procedure for the adoption of the bill. Once it is published in the appropriate order, then you will be able to make similar statements. You have the floor, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u336	Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Tsacheva! You are putting Parliament in a funny situation because now a bill is being discussed, which has already been published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u337	There's no such prom. Don't be fooled. There's a prom decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u338	For reference to the MPs, cash...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u339	But here, too, is the question of the legal consequences in view of today's vote in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u340	Issue 103 of the Official Gazette of 13 December, page 55,...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u341	I thought it was 1955.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u342	...in which it was announced that the decree of the Council of Ministers was on the basis of ratified by the National Assembly by law Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany. I mean...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u343	Read it all the way! You're quoting very selectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u344	Read it to yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u345	I've read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u346	Read the full text and stop interrupting me because...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u347	Not bad, Maya!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u348	...instead of embarrassing yourself that you are making a ridiculous parliament that by this act you are effectively disbanding Parliament and closing it, after you are allowing yourself to publish unauthorized laws and regulations based on unauthorized laws, you have humiliated the Bulgarian Parliament as much as possible. The case is really a relapse, because after Mary Jane, this is the second case in which the Official Journal of the European Union published an unacquired law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u349	Where is it signed by the President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u350	Open the procedure and see...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u351	I'm going to sue you for a public insult, Mrs. Manolova, here in this room. [[Shouts, applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u352	About what? About what?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u353	I warned you to watch your mouth! [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]] I warned you to measure your fairy tales and reasoning on the subject of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u354	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, after this grand scandal in which you are bringing Parliament into the adoption of a law which has already been declared adopted, I think you hold the slightest apology of this Chamber as a person who signs the issues of the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u355	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u356	I owe a personal explanation to the MPs, not to the unspeakable one. [[General applause from GERB.]] In the Official Journal, besides the drafts and other acts of the National Assembly to be published, the signature of the President of the National Assembly, under the Law on the State Gazette, is published and other acts bearing the signatures of the representative institution, respectively. [[(The National Representative Maya Manolova is leaving the Chamber. Replies from GERB: Maya, come back!]] There is no obligation for anyone from the National Assembly's leadership to carry out a revision of the content of decrees voted by the Council of Ministers. What you've spoken here, from this tribune, the pre-speaking woman, is crossing the limits of emotionally uplifted, nervous debate in this room. It's gross manipulation, gross speculation, claiming something's already been promulgated. No, at this time the bill has not yet been voted at second reading, so any such statements by people who have studied and have not learned [[Applause from GERB]] The procedure for promulgation in the State Gazette undermines the authority of the National Assembly. In due course, when this bill is submitted by the government, it is allocated to the Standing Committees, it is discussed by them, there are reports prepared and today there is a normal procedure for the adoption of this Law. This is what I owe to you the MPs as an explanation. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-17.u357	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. We'll continue the debate. Are there any other statements? [[(Noise and lines from GERB: No!]] Okay, then we're going into voting mode. We are voting at second reading the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany on the solution by mutual agreement of the damage to the case of the case of Tsemeko.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Thank you. Tomorrow's meeting is at 9:00 p.m. We continue with item four of today's vote agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
