ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, according to the decision adopted yesterday, today's day is dedicated to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. One explanation. The questions received yesterday at 9:00 p.m., according to our Rules, there is no way they will be able to get answers in today, as art. 90, para. 1 of the Rules requires a minimum of 48 hours from the time the question is put to the time of the answer in order for the relevant ministers to prepare the answer. For this reason, we cannot today listen to the answers to these questions. Two written responses were received from: - Minister of Health Miroslav Nenkov on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov. Today, parliamentary control will begin with the answers of the Prime Minister of the Service. Georgi Bliznashki, who will answer first of all a question from MP Maya Manolova on the policy of the caretaker government to replace staff in the state administration. Mrs. Manolova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Prime Minister, at the end of the term of office, I find it appropriate to remind you how you started it! With the pathos, yes. The trial is in power, you said, and with the promise: we will not resort to any purges and acts of rematchism. These are your words from August 6, 2014, when you took over. What happened? Since the first days of your service management, the promises have been forgotten and a true service broom has been turned around. 17 of the 18 district managers have been dismissed, dozens of senior officials have been fired. Exactly how many were fired? According to you, the official reference for the Council of Ministers leaked 400, according to our accounts, twice as much. But the question here is different, and I want to ask you this. The question, dear Mr. Gemini, is: who, who is behind these dismissals? [[Laughter at GERB, noise and lines.]] Who proposed the new appointments to the main staff of GERB? Who, Mr. Bliznashki, proposed the regional governors of Plovdiv, Montana, Pleven and Ruse? Who suggested the Deputy Ministers of Regional Development, Ecology, the Social Ministry, Youth and Sports? Who proposed the heads of the Road Agency, the Forest Agency, the National Building Control Directorate, the BDZ, the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, the Nuclear Power Plant, the Nuclear Power Plant, the Mini Maritsa-East, the Port of Burgas, the Sofia Airport, the Air Traffic Guide? Who, dear Mr. Gemini, is behind the new appointments? My question to you is, who? [[(Applause from BSP LB and shouting from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u3	To answer this question, the Deputy Prime Minister Georgi Bliznashki.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, why am I not at all surprised by the question you raise?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u5	Because you've done such things.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u6	Because it was your election routine. The whole election campaign was holding up. [[(Applause and shouting from GERB Bravo, bravo!]] on the claim of the gruesome purges undertaken by the caretaker government. However, the truth is quite different, and I am obliged to present the facts as they are. By the way, even on the second day the issue of purge was raised with a terrible force by some to pain familiar media called the media-batters...............................the previous period of the protests. But they made one gross mistake because they accused me of firing the deputy ministers of the government in question, something which, by the way, did Plamen Oresharski himself, for which I am personally very grateful to him. He himself fired the deputy ministers appointed by him. But that's where the war started for the scary purge that the caretaker government carried out. I mean, all in all...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u7	That you're doing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u8	Mr. Mestan, I'm going to answer you specifically and explain why you're so excited. Everything in it was fired, a crypto and a speech, 218 people. Ciphrom and Speech [[Shouts from BSP LB and DPS: "E-e-e-e!."]] Two hundred and eighteen people from the entire government administration, which numbers several tens of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u9	You did a purge.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u10	No purge has been done, but as you raise this question, have a healthy nerve, because the changes are yet to come. Whoever comes to power will make very serious changes to the administration. [[Applause and screams from GERB: "Bravo, bravo! "]] On the contrary! Of all these 218 directorates, starting from district managers, directorates, heads of departments and members of management and control bodies, about 20% of them have left on their own, with the majority of the other employees reassigned to other posts in the same administrative structures or entered into work in other bodies by mutual agreement. Without exception, proven professionals with previous experience in the same administrative structures have been appointed at the place of the dismissed at the discretion of the direct managers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u11	Come on now!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u12	And all this was necessary because for a whole year a large-scale purge was being carried out by the government of Plamen Oresharski in the state administration. [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]] Massive purge! But because you are putting the question of the district governors, very briefly on this occasion. 17 out of 28 people fired, Mrs. Manolova, not 18. All these dismissals are consistent with one criterion and it corresponds to the results of the last elections produced in Bulgaria. I can only regret that we skipped...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u13	The weather, Mr. Gemini! I gave you a sign!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u14	We skipped the preliminary number for the simple reason that at the last minute it turned out that seven district managers were included in different party lists.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u15	Please, finish your thought, since you've delayed a minute of time, Mr. Gemini.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u16	One of the worst cases was with the district governor of Haskovo, who is so excited about Mr. Mestan today.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u17	Line, Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u18	Honourable President, honourable Members, dear Prime Minister! In this room, I've heard bolder answers than the one you just gave us. [[Relations, excitement and laughter from GERB.]] Only you have to explain to those who were fired over 400,000. according to official management staff [[beeping and shouting: "E-e-e-e-e" by GERB]] and to their employees that this is not a political broom, that this is not a purge. I will not enter into disputes with you and whether dismissals, political dismissals are part of the powers of the caretaker government, which by definition must be politically neutral and non-partisan. I leave that to your constitutional conscience. The more important question, however, Mr. Gemini, from which you are fleeing, is exactly the question of who: who made the proposals for the new appointments?! Who offered you the deputy mayor of Plovdiv as district governor? Who offered you GERB activists as regional governors of Montana and Pleven? Dear Mr. Gemini, who?! Because behind the dismissals of the Oresharski government, we stand clear and responsible, and we have borne our responsibility, including in the last elections. Who will bear the political responsibility for the purge that you have made?! Obviously, we haven't given you the list of appointments from BSP, although you claim to come from our circles. It was not given GERB because the leader of GERB denied these appointments. They're not reformers, and they deny it. It's not the protest. Then the only possible answer is that someone backstage appointed the new leaders that the backroom, dear Mr. Bliznashki, has settled in your office that it has given you the lists, dictated the decisions that you simply paraphradiated, which, honourable colleagues, is extremely unfortunate for a government where the prime minister himself said: "The trial is in power. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u19	It's a hole, Mr. Gemini. [[Extreme lines and laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u20	I understand your pathos, Mrs. Manolova, but unfortunately the truth is another and she is not on your side in any way! The appointments we made, including regional managers, are of prepared people, professionals who did very well during the election campaign. You are quoting one or two cases where there is a political coloring of their biography in the past tense, but the truth is that we have sought to find and appoint prominent intellectuals, people in places that enjoy trust and authority [[Laughter, noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS]] , and these people really did manage the task of organising honest and honest elections. If you have the opportunity, submit facts or evidence of abuse by district managers, but such cases do not have one. Secondly, as far as the wider administration is concerned, the truth is that we have preserved extremely many people associated with the previous administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u21	Kaolin's affair!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u22	I don't want to list these people's names because they might end up getting fired next week, but we've saved too many people... [[Voices: "E-e-e!" by BSP LB and DPS.]] Maybe this is my personal sin as far as my political background is concerned in the past tense.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u23	Are you sorry?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u24	But my criterion has always been a single criterion that this should be people professionals. Mr. Mestan, because you want a personal explanation, to finish the case. Never before has a governor been so arrogant about the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u25	Which district manager?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u26	The Haskovo district I fired. He gave rise to your indignation, including the letter you sent me. Never before! I recommend that you reprimand this man, not encourage such behavior in the future. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u27	Personal explanation, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, you have the claim that you are a constitutionalist and that is exactly the claim you claim is the paradox. You know that the office works in the absence of Parliament and parliamentary control. And that is precisely why it is not the office's job to conduct a large-scale political purge and political repression, because the responsibility for the actions of the prime minister is only the Head of State. With these actions, you also discredited President Plevneliev. Don't just give me an example of Haskovo's governor. I have a list of hundreds fired by you. Hundreds! In their place,.. to one appointed people from another political force. You were just a curling iron. Behind your claim of constitutionalist jets and springes the figure of the weakest minister of service and weakest prime minister in the history of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u29	The next question to the office prime minister is from Mr. Valeri Zablyanov on "Visia 2020: Bulgaria in NATO and European defences" discussed by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u30	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister of Service, the Bulgarian Constitution, which you claim to know and that you believe you have written something meaningful and that it must be implemented and implemented in a way other than the spirit contained in it, has clearly defined your place. I am pleased that today the National Assembly can exercise its main function of control over the Bulgarian government, which under the Constitution is without control. This government, appointed by Mr. President, has very narrow powers. This government cannot afford not just political purges, not just political appointments, not just vandalism in the state administration; this government must adhere to the spirit of the Constitution and cannot accept documents that are called "Vision: Bulgaria in NATO and in European defence by 2020. First of all, let's ask, esteemed Prime Minister with academic claims: what does "vision" mean, Mr. Prime Minister? What document of the Bulgarian Council of Ministers can be the document "Svision"? Where is the document of vision?! Then let's try to translate something into Bulgarian. I hope most of your work is written in this language. "Visia" should mean a look. Is that correct, Prime Minister? The Council of Ministers has looked into a document from 15 pages to 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u31	Mr. Jablyanov, please focus on finishing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u32	Take a look at what he was trying to do in this document.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u33	In the form of a line, you will have the opportunity. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u34	I have a question, first: did the Prime Minister read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u35	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u36	And two, and two...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u37	Mr. Zablyanov, you're almost a minute late.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u38	Thanks, I'm done. The document obliges the next Bulgarian governments and here I would like to draw attention to the colleagues who are voting to manage: pay attention to the attempt to be obliged with military costs the next Bulgarian governments, who have an independent defence policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u39	That's not true at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u40	Mr. Zablyanov, we understand your point. Let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u41	Prime Minister, please answer me. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u42	For an answer, Mr. Bliznashki, the prime minister of service.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've been given qualifiers a few times that sound very strange. My academic achievements are being questioned. I absolutely want to reject all these stupid claims. Georgi Bliznashki is a true Bulgarian professor! [[Applause from GERB.]] Real! You will yet have to prove your academic claims, because nothing meaningful has been written in your life. [[Applause from GERB.]] As for the principle question that is being raised, I regret that Mr. Mestan has jumped out because I have personally defended him from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u44	Please, Mr. Gemini, concentrate on the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u45	It's a topic for another conversation, he'll obviously continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u46	I also appeal to the Members of the National Assembly, please, without personal assessments and qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u47	On the occasion of the "Vision 2020". This was a necessary document. The question I am asked raises some nuances in relation to the disagreements that arose during his discussion at the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. In its final version, this is a very meaningful and thorough document. Whether you like it or not is another matter, but it served as a basis for the National Re-arming Program, for the modernization of the Bulgarian army, which is presented to the National Assembly. The caretaker government has done nothing to overstep its authority. You will have the opportunity to rule on this document. You can approve it, you can reject it, but Bulgaria is a full member of the North Atlantic Pact and this membership results in corresponding obligations for the common defence. It is on this basis that the programme has been developed because our army is really falling behind in a number of directions and decisive measures are needed in this direction. So it will be up to the National Assembly whether we will have a modern army, a fighting army capable of fulfilling both its duty to the Bulgarian people and to the Bulgarian nation, respectively, to carry out its allied duties. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u48	The line is Mr. Zablyanov. With a request to adhere to the prescribed time in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u49	I promise. Thank you for the in-depth response and the meaningful presentation, for the deep argumentation of the vision, Mr. Service Prime Minister. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] And since the main accent in your response was its perseverance and deep content, I'll allow myself to read you a sentence, which I'm sure the professor didn't read, otherwise he would have removed it himself: In the described and current forecast strategic security environment and in the clear understanding of the importance of defence for our country's economy and prosperity, reflected in the national ambition for adequate investment in defence, the Armed Forces will work to increase their capabilities through specific. Is that the competence, Mr. Office Prime Minister? Is that the deep content? This is a bad translation from English to weak translators in the departments you have managed. And that's why I asked you at first if you'd read it. Because I hope when we talk about academicism, it is in its fullness, not in who how many foreign scientific authorities has quoted in its own scientific achievements. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u50	It's a hole. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u51	I was not mistaken, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I was simply hesitant to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u52	You have to, that's what the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u53	I could do a douche bag, I couldn't do it, but I thought I'd say it. The document presented to your attention is an extremely important document. And I urge you to treat him responsibly because this country does not exist in some vacuum. She has her commitments, she has her obligations, including to our allies. I therefore urge you to look carefully at this programme, which we have provided to your attention, and not to practice rhetoric from the National Assembly stands. As far as personal attacks are concerned, I'll find a way to give you a proper answer. Be sure of that. [[BSP LB.]] The way you're acting comes to show why you got such a low grade from the voters in the last election. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u54	The next question is from the National Representative Maya Manolova on extraordinary expenses incurred by the caretaker government. We're listening, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u55	Honourable Prime Minister, honourable Members, Madam President! Since the first day of your management, by the way, exactly three months ago, we are always listening to a mantra from you: The inheritance of Oresharski is heavy, the state is in crisis, we have to draw loans, there is a hole in the budget, we have to tighten the belts. Yesterday, once again, from the parliamentary tribune of our questions, you used such rhetoric, and in the end you said to me, "The government has been working on a very strict economy regime." I quote you verbatim. I suggest that you and I now consider this extremely strict austerity regime that your government has been working with. I suggest that we aside from the fact that exactly how many councillors, collaborators and members of political cabinet have you and your ministers appointed in just three months. I will just say that your political collaborators are four more than regular Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski and that the Minister of Culture has modestly appointed nine advisors in three months. I'm not going to bother you with the public procurement that we talked about yesterday, consulting services, media packages, project coverage, analysis, forecasts and so on. This money is a dime compared to the extraordinary expenses your office affords. Seen from your official website, from the beginning of your management until the end of October you have spent an extra 206 million. lv. In August, 81 million in September, 108 million in October. Adding to them the 750 million allocated in advance for payment of funds from the operational programs,...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u56	Your time, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u57	...and that 130 million. BGN, which you took from the municipalities under the Public Investment Programme, turns out that your government has spent more than 1 billion. lv. Now, that's what they call an icname, dear Mr. Gemini. I look forward to your explanation of what you've done with these costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, of course, this is the second topic you could not not have raised. It is constantly developed by the media close to you, from most of the printed editions. This morning, I read in the newspaper, "Standart" on the front page that I gave away $21 million. Accordingly, in the newspaper "Now" "Send money," but this is the money that goes to the disasters in those areas that have suffered in the last floods in Burgas and Haskovo. And I don't see a prime minister who wouldn't make those expenses. Nevertheless, it is being passed through, this line is required. It comes from a news agency under the influence of the infamous Monica. And here it's all over again, over and over again. Here's what we've been doing all this time, the money we've spent and the main directions they've gone in. I said that yesterday, and I will repeat it now: we found a failed budget with a deficit of a billion and 200 million Bulgarian levs! A billion and two hundred million, and the funds for the central administration at the time of my inauguration were spent at over 80%. For this reason, restructuring of the central budget was necessary in order to be able to meet vital needs. Life-saving operations, I called them a few times!? And here's what we're talking about in the end: additional funds were provided for ministries, departments and municipalities amounting to 117 million. 900,000. lv. by restructuring the costs of the central budget in order to reduce the pressure on the implementation of the budgets of a number of ministries, offices and municipalities. The main task of the caretaker government was to organise and produce extraordinary parliamentary elections, which cost 26 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. The funds that were not foreseen in the state budget to provide co-financing for projects implemented by the National Railway Infrastructure Company. Additional funds of 15 million were made available under the Operational Programme. lv. For the payment of the activities carried out to build the priority infrastructure projects on the motorway of Hemus, Belokopitovo-Caspichan division and the Maritsa Motorway, additional funds of 11 million were provided. Five hundred thousand. lv. For activities carried out which were not paid out by the previous government! The workers were starving! (From BSP LB: E-e-e-e!) The same hard-working people you cry so hard for! [[Noise and lines.]] And so on, I can go on in directions. There's not a single penny wasted in the expenses incurred by the caretaker government! It's the truth! You can make an inquiry committee if you want. It's in your power. The National Assembly can check any expenditure, but I said it and repeated it from the National Assembly's stand: "There is nothing to worry about! We have acted within the framework of the law! " - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u60	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs. Manolova for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Service Prime Minister, I will put aside the press review and the media, with which you started your response. I suggest we get to the point. Let us see who and what are these vital, vital, extraordinary costs that your government has made and why you have no reason to worry about them. Let's talk to concrete facts. At a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 17 September this year, you are granting 8 million. lv. for a new metro section in Sofia and 5.6 million. lv. for building a sports complex in Plovdiv. What is the urgency in building a new section of the subway, when, according to your stories of the same days, there is no money for health, no money for medicines and according to your ministers, there is no money for energy aid to the socially poor Bulgarian families? It is obvious why you have nothing to worry about.. because certainly the distribution of money to municipalities with mayors of GERB is with the approval of Mr. Boyko Borisov, whose orders you performed verbatim during your management. What's the emergency for 30 million? lv. An increase in the budget of the Road Agency, notice, for repairs and new construction of roads? What is the urgency of that 1 million you gave your patron to spend by the end of this year, while Bulgarian citizens fail? The president got a million. BGN, provided you think the hole in the budget is huge. In conclusion, I would like to tell you, Prime Minister, because in the context of the matter I had no time for further examples that the saying reads: In your case, for your government, we can say that we have welcomed you by your priorities, and the dispatch is yet to be paid. [[Noise and lines.]] It is yet to be established what your heritage is and how much you are worth to the Bulgarian people, but 1 billion extraordinary expenses is a feast during the plague! Pirate in the face of crisis!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Prime Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u63	I loved the finale of the feast during the plague, but the examples you give were extremely inconclusive. If you were me, would you have stopped the construction of the Sofia subway? Well, it's a program that's in full effect, and if we don't release these funds, we're going to lose a lot more than that to support this activity under international programmes! I very well understand you... you must somehow justify what happened in the last year. The whole point is that the costs incurred by the caretaker government were pre-planned costs, but given the difficult situation we were forced to release them on a case-by-case basis, and unfortunately we stopped many other things that we could not spare money for. I do not want to comment here there are also MPs who were mayors yesterday, for those endless talks, for requests for interest-free loans, loans and so on, because the situation in a number of municipalities is extremely difficult. Wherever we could, we helped. Unfortunately, far from anywhere. This is what I sincerely regret, not something else, as you are making suggestions today from the stands of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u64	Thank you, Prime Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov concerning the capital policy of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ivanov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Service Prime Minister, my current question is dictated by the vague personnel policy that we have already developed as a question a short time ago. I will avoid the arguments that colleagues have made in the initial question, so I will come by so as not to waste all of our time, directly to the question. Before the early parliamentary elections in 2014, you released the regional governor of Shumen Mr. Ventzislav Venkov. Please answer me: on what principle and with what motives did you make the corresponding release? And answer me what was the way in which you came to the candidacy of the next district governor appointed by the cabinet you led? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Prime Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u67	The answer to the question you have asked is extremely easy. What surprises me is why you're bringing it up at all. [[Radio and lines.]] Because the former regional governor of Shumen Ventsislav Venkov was included as a candidate of the Bulgarian Socialist Party in its lists. Before that, long before that, I announced that I would release all regional governors who enter the party lists, regardless of which party they belong to. And everyone who got caught in the papers was released. Some of them are now MPs. I don't know if Mr. Venkov is a MP. I don't know how many seats you've taken in the Shumen region, but this is what he himself said at the press conference when handing over power to the next newly appointed governor Mr. Petko Sharenkov. Here's what he says, and I quote this is Shumen, Top news. The person explicitly commented that the change was expected: the Prime Minister said that these regional governors, who are on the list, would question the transparency of the elections and should be released, and did so. He said Mr. Venkov and added that he respects the Prime Minister's decision. As for his successor, he's an army colonel, an artillery colonel. You know that Shumen has a tradition in this regard, and it was no coincidence that on his inauguration there were influential individuals from these particular military circles. This is the answer to the question: where does this application come from? This is a respected public official with extremely extensive administrative experience. I also believe that Mr. Petko Charenkov has done his duty as Regional Governor. I don't know if he'll go on any further, but I'm happy with his work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u68	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Ivanov, you have the opportunity to reply if you wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u69	Thank you, Mr. Office Prime Minister. I say to you: it sounded nice, just like a lecture, but far from meeting the reality and practice that you had during your premiere in Bulgaria. I want you to respond here to the MPs and also to the Bulgarian public to understand why you have violated the principles that you have just declared before us, namely to understand: is it due to the poor practice of double archin during your governance and at all in past governments, or some oversight? At the same time, while you freed Mr. District Governor, his deputy, from another political force, and in this case I would like to stress that I have nothing against Mr. Deputy District Governor, on the contrary I have the best impressions of him, was also a candidate for a MP. He got his campaign out, the gentleman was on another party's list, and he's back on the job as district manager and deputy district manager. Let's find out what the difference is between one and the other. For me, it's not possible for colleagues to know this thing either. [[Noise and lines.]] Find out how far the cabinet's competence extends.......................is not looking, does he mean something special for the other person and so on? That's the question I want you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u71	As far as I can tell from the line, you do not object to the principle that I have proclaimed and conducted in practice. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Why did I leave the deputy governor behind? Don't jump so much. Take it easy. I'll see you around. [[Relations and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u72	Prime Minister, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u73	It gives me pleasure, after all, I'm a former MP. [[Noise, lines and excitement.]] I mean, I've had a job, I've watched over the changes of the district governors. And the fact that the deputy governor stayed under the radar and took part in the lists. [[beeping and laughing from BSP LB]] It's my fault, and I'm truly sorry. If I'd known, I'd have fired him, too. I'm done with answers within the framework of parliamentary control for today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u74	I thank Mr. Georgi Bliznashki for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Goodbye. Next questions are addressed to Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Minister of Economic Policy, Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Investment Design. Mrs. Zaharieva, please take your place in the hall. The first question to Mrs. Zaharieva is from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov concerning the termination of a public procurement procedure. Mr. Popov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, the termination of the procedure for the construction of the bypass of the town of Dimovo in your mandate has serious negative consequences because this time it is part of the General Transport Corridor No 4 and conducts transport flows between Romania, Bulgaria and Greece, which determines, apart from its national and international importance. It is the shortest link between the Danube and the White Sea. The road is of important national and international importance for the Western part of the country by connecting the north direction.Source: Central Europe with Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey, the Middle East. Millions of euros were thrown for the construction of Danube Bridge 2. Traffic towards him has increased immensely. There's a bridge, but there's no road. I therefore ask you to answer the questions: what are the reasons for the termination of the order for the construction of this road, and what do you provide for its construction? You owe this answer to the people of Vidin, to the people of Dimovo, whose poor houses have cracked and are facing collapse due to heavy goods vehicles passing through there. You owe this response to all those Bulgarian citizens who protested just a month and a half ago because of the irresponsible attitude of the caretaker government, which you removed from the Operational Programme "Transport" with European funding, building the road Sofia "Vidin," with which I believe that you expressed the attitude of the caretaker government to Northwestern Bulgaria. Dear Minister, Northwest Bulgaria is also part of Bulgaria. Please respond specifically, precisely and clearly to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u76	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer to this question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, Dear Mr. Popov, I fully agree with you that the road Vidin The existing road in the town of Dimovo is characterized by many curves, with small radii and large due slopes. The place is really worn out and certainly Dimovo's bypass is an extremely important project that should happen as soon as possible. Yes, it is true that it is only part of Corridor No. 4, but at least it will ease the path and flow through the city itself. However, what I would like to say is, why has the procedure been terminated? In order to export exactly the transit movement from the town of Dimovo in the beginning of 2014 a public contract was launched to select a contractor for the tour. The offers were opened on 27 May 2014. At the opening of the price offers it was found that all price offers in the above-mentioned contract exceeded the indicative value by 8 million. Three hundred and thirty-three thousand. BGN, excluding VAT, which the Road Infrastructure Agency has provided for, with the lowest bid price of 10 million. 693 thousand. lv. On the basis of art. 39, para. 1, t. 3 of the Public Procurement Act the procedure has been terminated due to the inability to provide funding for its implementation. Again, I stress that the offers are open in May. Apart from the foregoing, I would like to emphasise that the contracting authority did not have a single lev in its budget for this time at the time of the launch of the public procurement. It was expected that in the selection of a builder in some way these funds would be provided. It is also an explicit condition in the contract that until the contract for the implementation of the construction works will be signed, the specific procedures for the site will be completed. I would like to emphasise that even so far, a detailed plot of land for the site has not been adopted. The procedure has started, but it's not finished yet. It was authorised by the Ministry of Finance by order one week before the opening of the tenders on 21 May 2014, and the original version of the plan was received on 27 August 2014. On 29 September 2014 its final version was received. You know, there are still procedures to announce, appeal and so on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] From this point of view, what I believe should happen, and this was also the assessment of the Road Infrastructure Agency, it is first to complete the procedures and then, at the end of the procedures, to select a builder. I stress again that even if a contract had been concluded, construction would not have been able to begin until now. How can you make a contract when you don't have a dollar in your budget for this?! I'm done with the fact that this time it's really important. The Road Infrastructure Agency is working speedily on adopting all the documents needed to start its construction, adopting a detailed development plan, alienating procedures, changing the purpose of agricultural land. However, we all know how long these procedures take, all the more so, given the fact that the State Property Act and the Municipal Property Act still hope to be amended in order to ease alienation procedures. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'd like to highlight...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u78	Mrs. Zaharieva, you're one minute behind schedule. Please get it over with. You'll have a chance to move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u79	I'm sorry. We are only doing everything we can to secure these funds, but I also appeal to the Members of the National Assembly for assistance in the adoption of the Agency's budget for the next year, because what is currently foreseen for 2015, 2016 and 2017 for the new construction programme in the API budget is 3.5 million. lv. About everything. This time it is important and I appeal when adopting the budget to provide funds for its construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u80	A line? Probably Mr. Mikov. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! The office with this action fits into the overall impact on E-79.. one not only Bulgarian but also European priority. Moreover, you have decided to redirect the Transport Programme and not to ensure the construction of E-79. Yesterday, the media said that since the Danube Bridge was launched, half a million cars have passed on it. Half a million! The crashes have increased sharply. But I will read to you what your predecessor, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, said on July 6th, when I asked her again about this time: I hope that by September [[We are talking about 2012]] the project will be approved and the tender documentation will be completed by then. We'll announce the tender procedure by the end of the year... and so on. She says: "The construction of this road section along Corridor No 4 is one of the top priorities. This is 2012. Bulgaria was obliged according to art. 4 of the Danube Bridge 2 project until the construction of the bridge to remove the narrow sections. With two solutions the one is subtracting E-79 from the Operational Programme "Transport" for financing, and with this termination of the procedure... That's why it's worth 8,5 million. lv. Are you sure 2 million isn't enough?! Isn't that why the price is indicative?! These funds could have been found. This year's budget was provided, and next year it had to be completed. At least 3-4 months have been lost in opening offers. It's not true that the fifth month opens the offer. The offer is open, the procedure is terminated in September and the price offers are open in August. They were handed out in May. So obviously, your cabinet, too, could not begin the realization of this extremely important not only for Bulgaria, but also for the European Union section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Mrs. Zaharieva, doppelganger, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u83	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mikov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The truth is, even if a contract was signed, I stress that there would be no construction because there is not a single document adopted. I, to be honest, wouldn't want to be part of the vicious practice of choosing builders, then for years they couldn't start building. From this point of view, imagine what would have happened! At the end of September, the PSU was submitted in final form for the first approval by the Road Infrastructure Agency, immediately after which we sent it to the municipality. The procedure is yet to come. After the adoption of the PSU, there is a change of purpose, estrangement procedures and the issuance of a building permit. Once again, I stress that there was not a single left-hander at the start of the procedure - not 8.33 million. They were hoping to secure money when they concluded. There was no money at the start of the contract. In fact, this is not the only public procurement that was launched without money there. For 750 million. lv. Orders were launched without one lev provided in the budget. That's why I appeal: it's really important this time. I stressed that only three and a half million for 2015, 2016 and 2017, in the three-budgetary forecast there are only 3.5 million. lv. at the Agency for New Construction. [[Reply of MP Mihail Mikov.]] About the road Vidin "Sofia." I mean, this is one of the main priorities. The office has repeatedly highlighted it. It will be provided with funding with the trans-European corridors. The European Investment Bank agrees. She's agreed to our priorities. We are about to re-write and negotiate the final conditions for the financing of these three important projects................................................................................................... the southern part of Sofia,............................................................................................................................................... So it's not true that he deleted it. The plot and documents needed to start the construction of this road are currently being worked on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u84	Thank you. Next is a question from the National Representative Georgi Andonov about an emergency section of the road Blagoevgrad. Mr. Andonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Madam President, my question is about the secondary road Simitli Less than a month ago in the locality At the beginning of the winter season, which is coming in less than a month, we stand in the great danger that the only road serving our big ski resort Bansko will be closed. My question to you, Minister, is: what action does the Ministry of Regional Development take, in particular the Road Infrastructure Agency, to address the problem? Is it working to fix the problem permanently? Do you think the emergency station will jeopardize to some extent the upcoming winter season and the safe movement of drivers and road vehicles in this area?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u86	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Republican Road 2-19 Simitli "Razlog" "Gotse Delchev".The border crossing is the only transport link connecting the municipalities Simitli, Razlog, Bansko, Dobrinishte, Belitsa and Gotse Delchev with the district center Blagoevgrad, in general with the rest on the road to Sofia. The road is the most direct and convenient connection connecting North, Northwest and Western Bulgaria to our winter resorts in Pirin Mountain. As a result of the emergency situation, there is a real danger of a complete disruption of the road. This will lead, in turn, to the tearing of settlements and the inability to provide goods and services of primary necessity, and not least to the obstruction and failure of the winter tourist season. For the critical condition of the high eight meters of support wall at kilometer 15 plus 200, this is about 5 km after the village of Gradevo on the road Simitli Razlog, was reported by the Regional Road Management of Blagoevgrad, on 10 October 2014. Action was taken immediately to carry out an engineering and geological examination and identification of the damage. During the examination, a displacement of the top of the wall by about 12 cm was found. There's a crack about 70 centimeters thick. In the meantime, the surface water invaded accelerates the destabilization process and de facto the support wall collapses on 23 October 2014, since only one lane is limited there. On 26 October the movement of trucks had been restored, which had even stopped. By the way, we haven't actually stopped working on the measurements, and it's being strengthened there. This Wednesday, we provided funds to restore the road. Yesterday the Council of Ministers approved additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development of 950 thousand. lv. to finance the securing of the aviary road section, and the expenditure is intended to be provided at the expense of the restructuring of the expenditure of the central budget. The necessary urgent and urgent emergency reconstruction works are provided for as an opportunity for implementation under the existing framework contract for winter maintenance and maintenance of roads, which is why de facto and currently working on strengthening the road. Given the possibility of this road section to provide direct and basic access to the winter resorts in Bansko, Razlog and Dobrinishte, I make a commitment by the end of this month to complete the section and restore the two-way movement to the two sails.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and congratulations for the work you have done, and especially for the commitment you have made to us by the end of November to remove the problem of the ring road hub Simitli Bansko. I think that the Ministry and, in particular, you, as Minister of Regional Development, have done the whole crisis situation flawlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u90	A hole? You won't use it. The next question is from the MP Mr. Dzhevdet Chakarov about rehabilitation and extension of the road Plovdiv "Asenovgrad." You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u91	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I am addressing you in connection with the realization of the project I have been asking this question for the third year in a row and I will continue to ask it because thousands and tens of thousands of people expect construction and there will be normal communication between two major cities one time that is extremely busy. In 2012, then Minister of Regional Development Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova replied that money from the state budget and a loan from the European Investment Bank was provided for the financing of this project. I asked the question in June. The answer was that by the end of the year the contract will be held and construction will start in 2013. In June 2013, then Minister of Regional Development Mrs. Desislava Terzieva replied to me that the rehabilitation of the road, which I have already pointed out, is not financially secured because the duration of the loan from the European Investment Bank must be extended. He also informed us that our country, together with the European Investment Bank, will make the necessary proceeds to continue the Loan Agreement. In relation to this situation, I ask you the following questions: Has project funding already been provided? If it's not secured, we'd like to know the reasons. Is there any readiness, if funding is provided, to carry out the necessary procedures and to start construction? If that's not the case, what are the reasons? In general, when is the final construction and entry into service of that road envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. For an answer Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, the above-mentioned site was intended for financing with loan funds from the European Investment Bank and this is one of the sites included in the "Transit Roads 5." At the beginning of 2013, action was taken to launch a procedure to extend the loan to 2016. This is due to the fact that for years there have been restrictions on the so-called State Investment Loan Limits on the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, which is really hindering and it is absurd that we have been unable to complete the construction of these lots on this loan for so many years. Therefore, it was necessary to extend it to 2016. Each year, there are really very few limits to 20, 40, 50 million, which is simply not enough. It's a much bigger loan. By a decision of the Governing Council, regardless of the limited funds, by the way, every year we constantly want to increase this limit and during the year, even the other day I signed again such a letter to the Ministry of Finance for the Transistrian Roads. In any event, the contract was launched on 30 June 2014. However, the procedure subsequently identified errors in the tender documents for the site which could not be removed without changing the conditions under which the procedure was announced. The errors, in short, are the following: it is not specified exactly what designers there should be and how many of them would put discriminatory conditions for one of the participants and at the same time The design of a road node is also included because it is not yet designed until the road is designed, and it is not clear exactly what the time limits for the contracting entity for the approval of the project are, which would put the builder in an inability to plan his deadlines. For this reason, the procedure has been terminated by a decision and a new one is about to start. Regarding what stage the procedures are at. Indeed, this time is indeed included and will be included for State investment loans (DEZ) for next year. What is the nature of the contracts with the DIS, with the European Investment Bank (EIB)? There, after you make a contract with the builder, you pay, regardless of whether you have provided funding just for a stay. For this reason, every year we really insist that sufficient funds be provided so that these objects can be completed because they come twice as expensive to the state if there is a contract and not built on it. The builder is satisfied, he gets money, but neither the people are satisfied nor the state, because they pay twice as much. So far, there's been an approved plot of land that's been put into effect. The decisions on alienation have been issued, but, unfortunately, again due to imperfection in the State Property Act, which were not received, we propose to remove, much of them still cannot be served to the owners. The decision cannot be served on the owners. They're being presented with notary invitations right now. Either way, there are cases filed for 34 properties, that is, alienation has not ended, and construction cannot begin, whether or not the contract was to be concluded. The practice so far shows that about a year takes, unfortunately, the appeal of such orders and the final conclusion. I am done with this: an extremely important road, is included in the list of sites, which is why we really believe that it should happen at any cost, regardless of what money is allocated each year by state investment loans. In fact, we have included it in the list of projects for implementation in the next programming period under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth". So there I can tell you a hundred percent will happen this time next year, as long as the program is approved really quickly, because it is almost ready for construction, except for alienation procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here's a line for you, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u95	Mrs. President, Mrs. Zaharieva, honourable Members! Thank you for your reply, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, but we cannot be fully satisfied. However, there is a certain hope, given that the preliminary information that we have had, is that the construction of the indicated road is the doubling of the road or extension, as we call it, is foreseen for 2016. The answer you give and present to the high tribune of the National Assembly is that the construction will start next year. This is good news, given that this time it is extremely very busy. Official statistics from the Ministry of Transport in 24 hours on this road pass more than 21 thousand. units of cars. It's a very busy road, and it's also a risky road. Unfortunately, there are many road accidents and, with the greatest regret, in many cases are victims. Given that communication is important not only between Plovdiv and Asenovgrad, this is a major communication to Smolyan District, to Kardzhali District, now and with the new border crossings towards Greece, the road is extremely busy, so the need is enormous. I can see that funds will be provided. We will monitor this process together with our colleagues in the field so that we can properly inform and inform people of this extremely great need. We realize and I thank you for the information you submit that the possibilities are limited. We know that attention should be paid to both the second-class and third-class road network in the country where there are also huge needs so that communication is normal and accessible to all of us across the country. However, thank you for your reply and hopefully that the construction of this road will start in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u96	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u97	Reference and appeal to the Members of the National Assembly. The caretaker cabinet yesterday adopted amendments to the Law on State and Municipal Property, which we believe are being imposed as a result of the Constitutional Court's decision. Some of these texts also concern the notification of alienation decisions to owners. I merely specify that in the event of a non-disclosure of the permanent address or a call, provisions of the Administrative Procedure Code of Service will be applied. My appeal is: really include this project in your programme, because it will certainly greatly ease the implementation of large infrastructure projects. If this law is passed, then I can say that it is really possible this time to start at the end of next year. If I wasn't honest and told you that it all depends on the cases and how long they would last. There is, in fact, the possibility of issuing a construction permit as soon as the estrangement procedures are completed. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Next is a question of the National Representative Manol Trifonov Genov regarding the realization of a public contract for rehabilitation 20 km section of III-804 Popovitsa We're listening, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u99	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Madame Minister of Service! I would like to address the audience and answer a question which, in time, he has very much bearded, like the one that my colleague Chakarov put before. The heavy condition, Madam Minister, of the country's transport arteries are subject to various management priorities. The policy of governance in the sector is trying to oppose highways against second-class roads, capital against province, Republican against municipal routes. Thus, the trendy favouring of a kind of road against others ultimately damages users of road traffic and is a risk for their road security. At the same time, neglecting these roads is frank discrimination against groups of society and their right to safe movement. One of the heart attack transport connections, which in the last five years became sadly famous in the country, is the 20km Popovitsa route "Assenovgrad." The road is the connection of Northeastern and Eastern Bulgaria to Smolyan and the winter resorts. The condition has been officially declared catastrophic and extremely risky for movement for at least five years. The state's promises that the Republican route will be included in a Lot under the Programme "Transit Roads V" proved to be an illusionary hope for at least three years. The tension around the decaying road, covered with 12-inch holes on it, described with technical expertise, provokes civil disobedience of the people of Sadovo municipality. Thus, in October 2013, they blocked the international road to Istanbul at the village of Popovica. In recent years, carriers have refused to implement courses along the line of municipal and regional transport schemes in this area with a single firm argument that they do not want to risk the lives of passengers. Dear Minister, what are the reasons for the sudden and undisclosed arguments stopping the procedure for selecting a contractor and supervising the site? Who is responsible for the fact that from 20 May to 8 August 2014 the Road Infrastructure Agency (API) conducts the two procedures and reaches the announcement of even the price offers of a total of 15 companies participating in the race without finalising them? What part of the declared indicative value of the contract of 15 million lv. was secured at the start of the procedure? What is the fate of the bank guarantees by the companies involved in both procedures for selecting a contractor and supervision? Who has undertaken to announce to the municipal authorities of the affected municipalities and the public the suspension of these procedures? Do API and the Ministry of Regional Development have an up-to-date assessment of the state of the risk road at the threshold of the winter season 2014-2015? What advice would you give to school buses and public transport on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I'm gonna have to ask you to fit in both minutes, since you've been delayed for almost a minute and a half. For an answer Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, the Popovitsa section was built more than 50 years ago and has not been rehabilitated since then, which is why, as you said, it is in poor condition. What I can say at the moment is that the procedure has not been terminated and the work on it continues. 9 offers were submitted in the construction procedure and 9 offers were also submitted in the construction supervision procedure. As of now, the procedures, as I said, are continuing. They are at the stage of consideration, evaluation and ranking of participants, and the Public Procurement Act provides for opportunities for participants to extend the validity of their offers and guarantees of participation until the conclusion of the contract. This is also the answer to the question of what happens to guarantees. I would like to inform you that the question here is the same as the previous one. In fact, there is much less money available each year as a limit on state investment loans. Here are indicative 15 million, but they are not an object object, they are for all objects. The money that is provided as limits for state investment loans will only be enough for the payment of the contracts already started. If advances and funds are paid out for mobilization under new contracts such as this would be, this would result in an increase, as I said earlier, and much of the construction on this site of interest, penalties, indexes and so on at construction prices. In any case, an update of the API's state investment loan budget was necessary for it to start this time, but this can only be done by the National Assembly. The amount needed to build this section cannot be provided by the very budget of the Agency, road infrastructure, outside state investment loans, because, as you know, currently there is no funds even to prepare the roads for winter. What I can make as a commitment, because this time it is really dangerous, I stress, the procedure is not terminated, it continues and at the beginning of next year will be finished and will be able to begin rehabilitation and construction of this road. However, in order to ensure winter, what we can take as a commitment is that the most dangerous damage from the pavement will be prepared for winter in this area so that school buses and everyone there can travel safely. We will patch them up, most likely the funds will be provided by Budget 2015 because we do not have a single lev for road maintenance by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u102	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u103	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! The only answer that would satisfy both me and the thousands of residents and sufferers and travelers along this route is not what we heard. It had to be short, with clearly committed commitments, with clearly specified deadlines. The only answer is there's no money. But, Madam Minister, in the agreement with the European Investment Bank, we co-finance about 45%. You just said there was some money worth 40 million, if I heard right, about those lotts. Forty million that means another 55 for example, from the European Investment Bank. Since there are limits, procedures to be followed, I think that none of the MPs, if you submit these amendments, will not refuse to vote on this after reading a few more lines. I suspect you do not know the fact outside the Ministry's files that there are extremely acute reactions to how dangerous he is this time. One of the places where you can be sure of this is a decision of the Administrative Court of Plovdiv. That's exactly what this is about. The case is after complaints of citizens, taxpayers and explicit police order to Regional Road Management.. Plovdiv, must be made a major repair of this road. It is in the forensics of this case that the whole length of the road section has many deep holes and all along the width of the lane for movement. The condition of the road pavement makes the drivers
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u104	Dear Mr. Genov, it is clear that the condition is bad. You've got a lot of pages ready. It can't happen in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u105	No, no, I'm not reading them...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u106	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u107	I'm just commenting on the expertise, which is...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u108	But she doesn't question it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u109	...made by the property: The holes on the pavement are 10-12 centimeters deep and are chaoticly located and in certain sections occupy the entire width of the road. This really, colleagues, is a quote from the forensics. Let's take measures, Madam Minister, indeed, as you promised, this precinct will happen next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u110	Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u111	One clarification. Winter can't be built anyway. What I can make as a commitment on behalf of the Road Infrastructure Agency is that the construction will start in the spring and end the autumn. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u112	Next is a question of the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Dimitar Krumov Tanev, Kiril Kotev and Georgi Andonov about the degree of completion and the deadline for the implementation of Lot 4 Sandanski Who's going to develop the question? Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Pursuant to the Treaty implementing Lot 4 of the highway, the deadline for implementation was announced by the previous Minister Desislava Terzieva on 15 October 2014. Something that didn't happen. The information that has appeared in the media is extremely disturbing that the Road Infrastructure Agency has terminated the contract with the Greek company "Actor" for the construction of the route and a new contractor will be chosen. The tensions of the affected about 50 thousand inhabitants in the area are increasing. At the same time the municipality of Petrich implemented a project under Operational Programme "Regional Development" which includes reconstruction of the entrance boulevard of the town of Petrich, which is part of the bypass route for the construction of the highway and in the municipality of Sandanski and in the whole district the tourist industry suffers serious financial losses. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the degree of completion at the time of Lot 4? When will traffic be exported for and from Greece outside the town of Petrich and the surrounding villages, and in the end what will be the deadline for implementing Lot 4 at Struma Motorway?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u114	For an answer, there is the word Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Saveclieva, Mr. Tanev and the others you ask! At present, Lot 4 from Struma Motorway is the easiest stretch, I would say, just over 14 kilometers long, about 50% is implemented. A large delay in performance has been found. Basically, what I notice is that almost a year and a half ago nothing moved when I was Minister of the Regional Development and Public Works back then. As a result, in addition to the on-the-spot check, we have made a number of meetings with the contractor to identify the reasons for its delay and to try to overcome this. Some of the meetings I attended and others attended the Minister of Transport as a governing body. Either way, the aim was to discuss all the details and problems of the project and to see if this builder would eventually make a commitment and complete this section, which in all expert assessments can be completed within three to four months, if the weather is nice. Saga, winter, of course, cannot be laid asphalt. The existence of force majeure for the period 1 March to 30 June resulted in an extension of the contract by 141 calendar days. Even that wasn't enough for the builder to finish him off. However, by August 5th, non-alienated alienation procedures have also hindered work in a particular road section and this was one of the reasons for extending the deadline by 141 days. What is happening right now, however, is that we have sent this annex to the builder with an extension of 141 days with a desire, however, with a request from us, for him to make specific commitments to complete up to 10 days, to complete the most problematic section in his last three and a half kilometers, through which settlements are passed within a month and a half of the launch, a desire to secure and organise the work so that he can work along the entire route. This, in my opinion, was not signed by the builder, despite the preliminary assurances that he would mobilize, do his best and finish him off. I have to tell you, we wrote 19 letters to the builder. We started and started a procedure for the issue of Act 10.. Act for stopping construction. At the moment, there is an evaluation of everything that has been done by the builder, its quality and this is a procedure for termination of the contract to be able to launch a new order that is possible to start and finish our estimates by the spring of next year and the section will be completed by the autumn of next year. That's the answer to what's going to happen. That's all I can say. Unfortunately, despite all our attempts to mobilize and start building, this is a good firm in principle, I cannot say what the problems are, there are a number of demands that we do not recognise, such as providing inert materials, additional funds and so on, which we are definitely not ready to acknowledge. But thank you for the question. I believe that there is no obstacle to completing this project by the autumn of next year and not to lose the funds under the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u116	Here's a line, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I was present when the first talks were held before the signing of Protocol No 23 of February 2013. The first period, which was commented on the completion of this section of the highway of Struma Fifty-six percent were completed in a year and seven months. I do not see how, given that you are planning to conduct a new procedure for selecting a new contractor, the remaining 44% will be implemented within 150 days. That is why my concerns about the security of citizens are strong. You know there was a fatality of a traffic accident. By the way, and part of the Kurnalovo section -- the market to Petrich is currently in poor condition and needs urgent repairs. My concerns about the development of business in the area and the concerns that citizens suffer are very serious: how will 44% be completed in 150 days? How will we compensate citizens and businesses for their patience? And my other question is: will there be sanctions for the company that is implementing the project, which will bear its responsibility for delaying the deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Mrs. Zaharieva, the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u119	Mrs. Chairman! You asked a lot of questions. I agree that business and citizens are suffering great damage from the delay in this segment. So long the construction went on because I said that there were force majeure circumstances during which about 141 days had not been built on this object. I am absolutely convinced that in a good organization of work, we have said this many times, and I will give you, for example, 34 km from Lot 4 highway "Trakiya" was the same precinct that ended in about three months, with good organization and time. The problem is the construction worker's bad organization right now, so this precinct is slowing down. Also, the fact that, since this year and a half, he has not actually been able to build for 150 days due to bad weather that have not completed alienation procedures. That's why the deadline is extended. I assure you it was not oral, but with anexics approved by the managing authority. There is no oral extension of a contract period. This happened with a contract and with anexes to it due to force majeure. That's all I can say. Absolutely in the opinion of all specialists this section is easy and can be completed within 150 days if there is a good organization of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u121	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In three months of life, the eternally smiling caretaker government appointed by President Rosen Plevneliev has been able to prove that it is not independent, not expert, not nationally responsible. This is how the Bulgarian Socialist Party appreciated it even after its first steps. And today we have no reason to change our assessment. The office exceeded its powers, allowed itself without Parliament's sanction in the parliamentary republic to make policies in key areas such as national security, finance, energy and defence, but left behind its main task of ensuring calm, objective and fair conduct of elections. The caretaker cabinet has also reached the unacceptable... also allowed dangerous games with national interest in the crisis situation in Ukraine, Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. This is the softest definition of the former Minister of Defence Velizar Shalamanov, in which the scandalous text that Russia is in an informational war with Bulgaria appeared. Russia was referred to as Putin's Member State, which was a threat to our national security. With a light hand, a minister of service and a minister of service, under the favor of the appointed president, crossed off the efforts of several Bulgarian governments to balance foreign policy. Against the backdrop of the aggressive tone towards Russia logically came efforts to implement the strategic project South Stream and without thinking about the consequences for our national security, economy and energy. At the same time urgent tasks on the refugee problem were surrounded and did not receive adequate response, but instead an attempt was made to fire the head of the service. Hidden behind the declarations of transparency and honesty, the caretaker government wide opened the door to corporate and party interests. An Energy Board has been set up, advertised as the place where all interests will be represented, where consensus decisions will be sought and policies will be offered. The truth is that it has enabled corporate lobbies that have failed to pass their interests so far and to pave their energy policy. And they weren't too late to take advantage of it. The actions to limit the renewable energy sector and the monopolies in energy and the price of electricity was raised without serious motivation. Busy with demonstrations of consensus, dialogue and pro-European vision, the official leadership has failed to work on the real European requirements to be met by the sector. Action on all key measures of the Oresharski cabinet in this direction was blocked on the balancing electricity market and on the launch of the energy exchange. The caretaker government almost managed to turn Bulgaria into a country in which the boards shift the institutions. Because the boards are governed by corporate names, and the institutions function in far more complex forms of control, including public. Why did we need an election board, followed by a board with the Interior Minister?! Probably because of the main priority announced by Georgi Biznashki's cabinet "active interaction between the state institutions in partnership with the civil society for free and fair elections." "The Mimikria of civil control can also do the PR work," but the truth is that there was no effective response to the buying of votes. Much more responsible turned out to be the Georgi Bliznashki cabinet to the footage, but to the footage of a particular political party. Three months ago we defined him as the Trojan horse of GERB and indeed he carried their people to key positions in the executive power. Even a quick review shows that structures with strategic importance and concentration of resources found themselves in the hands of GERB before the elections. In just a few months, the service cabinet has consistently managed to change the management bodies and compositions of major units in finance, economy, energy, transport, defence, foreign affairs, health and agriculture. The overall personnel policy was sealed with Vanyo Tanov's return as customs chief. Constantly self-proclaimed as a government relying on the support of the European Union, delayed the approval of future operational programmes. On the other hand, the office took the first steps to model the appropriate priorities for European funding in other areas as well. One of his first actions was to change the priorities of the Operational Programmes "Transport" and "Regions in Growth" 2014 2020 in favour of the road infrastructure at the expense of the railway. The pressure is in favor of the motorway construction. Is it also an accident to stop all public procurement for the rehabilitation of key sections of the national road network? Obviously, motorways can only be a priority if their construction is in the hands of the proper government broadcast by the right political party. However, the National Investment Programme cannot be a priority, although it promotes local growth. Its suspension in progress, apart from management shortsightedness, is most likely about the desire to re-exercise our familiar party control of public funds. Logical are the questions: who was behind the caretaker government? Did it protect its expertise, reassure the nation, guarantee fair elections, or did it better manage to balance between corporate ambitions and party tasks? Was it national interest or was it working against it? Didn't he create his own behind-the-scenes disguised behind civility and dialogue, even though he was supposedly born as a response to the backroom? The questions are mostly to the President, the architect of the office, who fed him with his most verified footage. The questions are both to the party that won the elections and to the next prime minister. Will he take off the mask of the office? Will he defuse the dangerous tendencies he has, despite his limited powers, bet? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. We are moving on to the questions to Mr. Stonov, Minister of Economy and Energy. The first question is from the National Representative Mr. Krasimir Yankov about the funds of companies in the sector of the Corporate Commercial Bank. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u123	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stonov, two are the current topics of government and development options on the Corporate Commercial Bank problem. There will certainly be a cabinet, even for this to go through early elections, while all problems related to CCB should be considered as a search for a possibility to minimize damage. One of the main victims of the KTB case is the state and the loss of funds that were in KTB. As a Member of the National Assembly, I am asking you the following question relating precisely to this financial resource, because the small depositors will be reimbursed in full or in most part. Persons with a large amount of personal deposits that have invested entirely or most of their personal funds in CCB have done so because of good financial conditions and expected interest gains. This in itself represents a financial operation and it hides its risks. Unlike private investors, companies and companies, even when diversification is made, are still hostages in the possible mismanagement of the banking sector. In view of this, my question to you is as follows: how much are the funds of the individual companies in the sector Can it be considered that the increase in the price of electricity is linked to the demand for a possibility to compensate for losses from the funds blocked in KTB? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u124	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. For an answer, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, in answer to your question, I provide you with the following information. At the time of the termination of customer service at KTB, state-owned companies in the sector had the following net exposure, funds in the bank. The total amount is 159 million. BGN, which divided by the main companies is: from BEH 44 million. lv.; on the part of the Mini Maritsa East.. 18 million; TPP Maritsa East 2.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 400,000. lv.; "Bulgargaz" "Seventeen million;" "Bulgartransgaz" "55 million; NEK" "14 million." Three hundred thousand.; NPP Five hundred and sixty thousand. lv.; "Electro-energy system operator" "4 million." 818 thousand. and the State-owned plant for radioactive waste less than 300 thousand. lv. In order to save time in subsequent questions, I can even give you information about the distribution of what percentage of the total funds of these companies represented the net exposure to CCB: in BEH it is exactly 25% The reasons for this net exposure are slightly different for companies. In the case of the Mini Maritsa East, we are talking about 18 BGN, which are not actually available funds, but funds on a so-called.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. For the other two companies, the funds exceeded these 25% as a result of payments several days before the bank closed. Regarding the second question whether it is possible that these blocked funds have anything to do with an increase in the price of electricity, I would like to assure you that this is virtually not going to happen. The price of electricity depends on the price of the public supplier and the imbalances in the system, as well as the costs of allocating that electricity. The NEK company had 14 million blocked. lv. In order to imagine what passes through NEK, between 2.5 billion and 3 billion go through a year. BGN, i.e. it is money that is collected by customers and paid to electricity producers. As there is a difference in prices, there is a deficit of around 900 million. lv. before the last electricity price increase. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u126	Two is a lot. Finish your thought. You have a total of three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u127	My point is that of this deficit of 900 million. lv. The increase in electricity from 1 October covered 200 million and the rest had to be raised through additional energy reforms: limitation of renewable energy, of TPP Maritsa East 1s, TPP Maritsa East 3s and so on, while the funds lost in KTB are only 14 million. You can imagine the 14 million can in no way be compared to 200 or 700 million, which requires raising the price of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u128	Thank you, Minister Schonov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u129	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Stonov, thank you for the information, but unfortunately much of the time to solve the problem Corporate Commercial Bank coincides with the management period of the office for which no one is politically responsible. This means that no one will bear direct political responsibility. This means that no one will bear responsibility for inaction or actions in the wrong direction. I believe that the Bulgarian voter will remember that the guarantor of the office is the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev, who personally points to the composition of the office President, elected by GERB. Please use the possibility of a duplicate and answer: Was there any option of credit at the Corporate Commercial Bank for energy projects, provided that they are part of the energy system, to seek the possibility of a mission with the funds of state-owned energy companies that are blocked at the Corporate Commercial Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u130	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here's your coat, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u131	I was asked only one question of my competence because the whole role of the government is not within my competence. Yes, various options have been discussed and the caretaker government, in particular in energy, economy and tourism, has done everything possible to save some of the blocked funds in possible options for developing the outcome of the KTB case. Yes! The answer to your question is: yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u132	Thank you. The next question to you, Mr. Schonov, is from the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva on the case that Atomstroyexport is leading to the International Court of Arbitration in Paris against the National Electricity Company. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u133	Honourable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, on 7 June 2013, we learned that the Russian company, Atomstroyexport, has filed against the Bulgarian National Electricity Company in the International Arbitration in Paris, worth 870 million. EUR for an ordered, manufactured but not paid reactor for NPP "Belene." This amount in Russian and Bulgarian expert publications and media of a more massive nature was subsequently rounded to 1 billion. I have met expert opinions and analyses in which the amount has been raised even to 1 billion. 400 million. The European Commission has submitted a complaint against the National Electricity Company. Shortly after this became known, NEK also filed a counterclaim, only for 62 million. EUR, but in front of the Geneva Arbitration for the old reactor, produced by the Czech Szcode, 20 years ago, the purchase of which entered the offer of the Atomstroyexport. On October 25, 2013 the Bulgarian society learned that the firm "White and Keys" which Bulgaria has hired to defend NEK's thesis has actually missed the deadline to present the thesis and the list of witnesses and experts who will protect it. Further, we learned that the two cases are united and will now be seen in the Swiss city of Geneva. Again on a press release... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u134	I'm asking your question, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u135	The question is: at what stage is the arbitration case for the project What's NEK's thesis and who's protecting her? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u136	Thank you. For an answer, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u137	Madam President, gentlemen and ladies of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, on your first question, at what stage is the case for the project "NEK" and for what value is the claim of "Atomstroyexport", I inform you that between NEK and "Atomstroyexport", Russia, there is currently pending arbitration proceedings before the Court of Arbitration at the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris. The subjectmatter of the dispute concerns claims of the Atomstroyexport....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... EUR "a little less than 1 billion. EUR, almost a billion, for the payment of activities of the "Atomstroyexport" under a preliminary contract of 26 November 2006 and the additions thereto, for activities which were not subject to explicit negotiation between the parties, for the escalation of agreed prices, interest, lost benefits, demobilization costs. NEK, for its part, has claimed against the Atomstroyexport, counterclaims amounting to just over 100 million. Euros. The dispute began as an arbitrage case for claims for unpaid invoices filed by the Atomstroyexport (Atomstroyexport) as a case after the termination of the project. Then escalated to a case covering all claims of the Atomstroyexport (Atomstroyexport) and NEK on the occasion of the termination of the project. This is the unification you mentioned. The Bulgarian side is represented by the international law firm White and Keys. At present, the case is in an advanced phase. In September of this year, two-week sittings were held in the Geneva, Switzerland, where witnesses and experts from both sides were questioned and heard. In the period 15-19 September, the witnesses of Atomstroyexport were heard and NEK's witnesses were heard in the period 22-24 September. The experts of Atomstroyexport and NEK were questioned and heard in the period 24-27 September this year. Upon completion of the hearing and at the disposal of the Arbitration Tribunal, the parties are to make a double exchange of written defences. Double exchange, i.e. twice, is a new element, the first exchange should be in February 2015, the second one in May 2015. We do not expect a verdict in the case before September next year. In the light of the complexity of the case and the volume of the evidence, it is possible to disclose the decision at the beginning of 2016. For information, prior to this requirement for double protection, we expected the case to be resolved by mid-2015, so there is always this element that the authorisation of this case can be extended. During the office's term of office, I held several meetings with the arbitration panel, during which we have fully cooperated in order to improve the organisation of the arbitration defence. I cannot provide you with any more information, as it is an arbitration case and any comment on this subject can influence the outcome of the case accordingly. I can assure you that we are aware of the details and have booked a very good firm. We believe that we are making one of the best possible defenses on the facts that exist. I would also like to take into account the fact that the Minister of Finance is a legitimate representative of the State in court cases and arbitration proceedings. According to the Civil Procedure Code, the Ministry of Finance organizes and coordinates the presentation of the Bulgarian state in this arbitration case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u138	Thank you, Minister Schonov. The line, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u139	Mr. Minister, I am really sorry that the case has been brought, so we cannot tell you anything that has been taken over by your government. With the same argument, Prime Minister Oresharski's previous government refused to give information even to the Energy Commission in the Forty-second National Assembly. However, thank you for the comprehensive description of the peripets, of which we, and the Bulgarian society, understands that the "Atomstroyexport" is bringing against Bulgaria a case of 1 billion, and we against "Atomstroyexport" for 100 million. Euros remain on the account of the Bulgarian people, who have to pay the humiliating submission of the government of GERB, which stopped the project "NPP" - Belene - when a reactor is ready under the pressure of the United States.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u140	Are you going to use a hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u141	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I would like to mention two things in response to your speech. The outcome of this case may mean that Bulgaria has to pay the Atomstroyexport between zero and 1 billion. The euro is not clear how much, but the Atomstroyexport must pay NEK between zero and 100 million. Any other statement and any other account on these figures does not correspond to the idea of having an arbitration case, so here we are talking between zero and 100 million and 1 billion. And 100 million dollars minimum and maximum damage if I can use yesterday's word. But where she will be, at this point no one can tell. So I would refrain from such comments. The second very important issue, which concerns energy and I, as a minister of service in energy, very much want to have clarity on this issue.................................... Each reactor gives about 8 terawatt hours of electricity per year, and 8 plus 8 makes 15 terawatt hours. Currently in Bulgaria there are capacities to produce 55 terawatt hours per year. Internal consumption is 35 terawatt hours. We take out 10 terrawatt hours and we have 10 terrawatt hours of overcapacity, and 10 terrawatt hours of export at best, it might be less this year. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u142	The hearing is ongoing. There is a question from the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov about the power cut. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister! About ten days ago, winter began. It began with a heavy snowfall, which led to traditional power cuts in small settlements. What was more unusual this year was that it took a long time to recover than in other years. The situation in the districts of Gabrovo and Smolyan was particularly severe. My question to you is: what are the reasons for the slower reaction in this case: were the severe weather conditions, did the need for additional funding of the network and additional resources? How can this be avoided in the future, because winter is yet to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Minister Schonov, we're listening to your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dobrev, in response to your question, I provide you with the following information. Due to accidents in the distribution network in the territory of the three electricity distribution companies as a result of the complicated weather situation, heavy snowfall, strong wind, fallen trees and branches, which led to the breakage of wires of the air distribution network of low and medium voltage and the interruption of electricity supply in several settlements, actions were taken by the power recovery companies. We have received the following data from the companies. 88 emergency teams, including 212 technical specialists, specialized equipment 70 energy teams, 172 specialists, specialized equipment, 89 units. For "Engineer" "Bulgaria: 51 emergency teams, 211 technical specialists, specialized equipment " 73 cars. In relation to requests submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Energy, the companies for the introduction of a restrictive regime for the supply of electricity to certain areas within the territory of the country and on the basis of Decree No 10 of 9 June 2004 on the procedure for the introduction of a limited regime, suspension or limitation of production or supply of electricity are prepared orders for the introduction of a restrictive regime for the supply of electricity. On October 31st we are talking here about the weather a week ago, the situation was as follows. On the territory of CEZ Distribution: 18 settlements were in an accident; on the territory of EKG 12 settlements; on the territory of the Energy-Pro Networks. In answer to your question why these accidents occur, it is normal, on the one hand, when such a serious, crisis situation occurs, to have such accidents. On the other hand, how can they be reduced and prevented in the future? We're talking here mostly about accidents in the air grids. For your information, the distribution of electricity runs on high, medium and low voltage wires. Bulgaria is one of the countries in Europe that has a higher share of air networks in low voltage, thus leading to a higher number of accidents based on severe weather conditions. How can this problem be resolved in the future? More investments are needed by electricity distribution companies to renew the network and to bring some of these electrical conduits underground. We're talking about big investments here. In the case of the situation in the sector, there is no money for such investments and therefore they have not been made. In the future, we hope that after the stabilisation of the sector and the proper regulation of these companies will proceed to these investments, but this is in the medium and long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u146	Thank you, Minister Schonov. A line, Mr. Dobrev? You're not gonna use a line. The next issue is once again by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on measures taken to deal with a possible gas crisis. Mr. Dobrev will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u147	Dear Minister, according to your information from the media, again about a week or ten days ago, the pressure has dropped in the gas pipelines that supply Bulgaria with gas.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u148	He's one.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u149	Three gas lines, guys. Whoever's making a line out of a place, let them know. My question to you is: what is the country's readiness to face a possible gas crisis? What are our options at the warehouse in Chiren? Is there still a problem with low pressure? What is it due to? This is another current issue related to the upcoming winter environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u150	For an answer, Minister Schonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u151	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Dobrev! Most of my time in the caretaker government I spent analyzing the situation with gas supplies to Bulgaria and possible alternative sources of supply. The truth is that at the moment, as always, we are dependent mainly on one source of gas, the pipes coming from Russia, through Ukraine and Romania to Bulgaria. Accordingly, we export some of this gas to Turkey and Greece. There is a possibility for reverse gas flow from Greece to Bulgaria, which can only operate in crisis mode. A limited amount of gas can be obtained from there not more than 10 to 20% of the expected winter consumption. What we have done to the Ministry of Economy and Energy is a government headquarters that assists management in crisis and emergency situations that disrupt the normal functioning of the system. Depending on the circumstances, this headquarters shall operate in permanent or crisis mode. He is currently working in a crisis regime due to the increased risk of an emergency situation in relation to the country's reduced pressure transmission system, which was first registered on 10 October 2014. Regular meetings of the MIE headquarters are held and operational solutions are prepared according to the situation. What's the situation right now? For the last two weeks, the pressure in the main pipe, which delivers gas to Bulgaria, at a normal pressure of about 42 bars, is currently between 30 and 35 bars. If the pressure drops below 26 bars, certain plans and security systems will start to activate, which will reduce gas supply rapidly. With a pressure of 30 to 35 bars, as it is now, gas supplies are limited. That is why they are partly compensated by withdrawing gas from the gas storage facility in Chiren. What's the situation there? There are 471 million cubic metres of gas stored in Chiren to date. That's a pretty large amount. The problem with Chiren is that you can't draw more than 3.5 to 4 million cubic meters of gas per day. At the moment, to compensate for this lower pressure, we draw between one and two million cubic meters per day, which is completely within the standard of dealing with situations of this size. Our explanation for the reduced pressure is technical problems in Russia, which may be real technical problems, or may just be technical problems as an excuse for the political dispute between Russia and Ukraine. It is difficult to judge and to have reliable information about exactly what this low pressure is due to. We are confident in our discussions with Russia and with the transit countries that this pressure is being monitored very closely and our expectation that a permanent reduction of pressure below 30 bars will not be allowed. That is, in this situation of consumption from one to two million cubic meters per day, Chiren can last for 120 to 150 days to work in such a regime, which is enough to cover winter needs. If you eventually get a greater drop in pressure, the next step is to switch the heat plants to fuel oil, for which there is a created organization, there is fuel oil, transport is provided. This will be a more expensive option, will increase the cost of heating, but will allow for dealing with a possible gas crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u152	Thank you. A line? I won't. We move on to the questions to Mr. Miroslav Nenkov, Minister of Health. He is asked a question by the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Daniela Daritkova about the capital costs of hospital care institutions during the current year. The issue will be developed by Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable MPs, in the 2014 State Budget Act and specifically in the budget of the Ministry of Health for this year 15 million were voted. lv. for capital expenditure, despite the government's requests, Oresharski, that healthcare will be a priority. That 15 million. lv. less than all funds allocated to capital expenditure in previous years. However, according to the Budget Act, capital expenditure between hospital care facilities with state participation in capital was once again reduced after the last budget update. There have been signals from various hospitals requesting the return of funds to the Ministry of Health, where they have not been spent target during the current year. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: how many and which hospitals with state participation in capital is a requested return of funds to the Ministry of Health that have not been spent on purpose? And eventually, if you have an idea, what are the reasons for not preparing the boards of these hospitals for the use of these funds, or the too late release from the Ministry of Health of Capital funds itself to the medical institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. We're listening to Minister Nenkov's answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mrs. Atanasova, Dr. Daritkova! Of that 15 million. BGN, which has been allocated for capital expenditure to the Ministry of Health for 2014. Eight million. 137,000. BGN 411. is the money provided for hospitals with public participation, 7 million. 212 thousand. BGN 589. is the money provided for secondary authorising officers and the Central Management of the Ministry of Health. Stoyan Kirkovich Hospital. Stara Zagora, I will not read the numbers of the contracts in order not to waste time. On May 30th, there was a treaty for the restocking of wards. The total amount is 1 million. lv. The first tranche of 500,000 has been translated. lv. On 18 June, the contract was terminated with one month's notice and the amount transferred was recovered into the budget. They haven't started the repair procedures. In Burgas, a multi-profile hospital for active treatment Burgas with a contract of 30 May for design, construction and repair activities and equipment for the construction of a National Emergency Complex, I recall these are the so-called small pyagogovchetas, for a total of 852 thousand. lv. A first tranche of 426 thousand has been translated. lv. On July 25th, the contract was terminated with one month's notice. The amount transferred has been paid back into the budget. Also for Burgas with a contract of 29 July is the site to finance construction and repair activities of an infectious compartment worth 250 thousand. lv. They were not transferred to the company's account, the contract was terminated on 10 September. Plovdiv District Hospital, Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment Plovdiv with a contract of 29 July has been signed with a contract named lv. They are not transferred to the company's account. By letter of 10 September, the contract was terminated with one month's notice. "Bratan Shukerov Hospital" Smolyan. The contract with the hospital was concluded on 30 May. It was concluded for repair of the pediatric ward, purchase of one number of apparatus for continuous respiratory resuscitation and laparoscopic apparatus of a total value of 600 thousand. lv. From the first tranche of 300 thousand. lv. has been purchased for prolonged respiratory resuscitation and laparoscopic equipment. The second tranche of 30,000. lv. by letter to the company is stopped what is for repair of the Pediatric Clinic. At the time of the suspension of this contract, the letter was written by the Ministry of Health on 15 September, the public contract was not even announced for the launch of the construction-repairing activities in There with the hospital in Smolyan there was a story, had first contacts with the media by the management of the hospital, had no contacts with the management of the Ministry of Health. Our letter of termination of the contract with the hospital remained unanswered. That's 300,000 anyway. lv. remain in the plan for next year and the Children's Department will be renovated specifically in "Brattan Shukerov." If I may, Madam President, thirty more seconds on the issue of vaccines, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday the auction was opened with the direct negotiation. Two companies showed up. One firm reduced the price with which it was registered on the Positive Drug List literally twice. We've got the winning contest. Now we're in a 10-day period of appeal, God forbid, so in 10 days the next health minister will sign the contract for a hexavalent vaccine and I think we will end this crisis once and for all. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u156	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. With my consent Minister Nenkov deviated from the answer, but at the same time he informed us on an extremely important topic to which there is interest on the part of the MPs. The line is Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. It makes it clear that on 30 May this year, i.e. at the end of almost the first half of the year, when it is clear that the Oresharski government is leaving, contracts are being concluded with the medical institutions and for which it is clear, at least for anyone who has managed a different portfolio and a different office that they cannot be implemented by the end of the year and the money should be returned to the budget. This is another proof that the former minister was only medialy showing his concern for medical institutions, and in fact what he claimed was not fulfilled. I am pleased with your response to the Hospital "Brattan Shukerov" "Smolyan" that for the next year there are 300 thousand planned. lv. for the repair of the children's compartment [[BSP LB lines and calls]] , and I would ask you to comment, if the draft budget for next year is clear, at least the planned budget funds for capital expenditure [[screams from the left]] , which is prepared at the Ministry of Health and at every office..........................I stress for colleagues who are calling inappropriately from the hall if there is already a plan for renovating other hospitals in the country. Thank God those eight million weren't used for the so-called eleven little pyrogoves in our entire country. One of the applications of Minister Tanya Andreeva. It's a good thing it didn't happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Would you like to use the right to dodge, Mr. Minister? Your right is, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u159	In a situation like this where I am a minister for very little time, I rely on the experts in the ministry entirely. There's a whole department that handles the management of commercial companies. And the previous years have been such a strategy of this Directorate: in the event that a project fails to be implemented in a hospital, there is no money or, as in our case, the money had to be withdrawn from capital expenditure, they entered into the capital expenditure plans for the next year. [[Replys on the left.]] However, the distribution of capital expenditure for next year will be the subject of the next management, so I cannot say anything about this now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u160	Thank you, Minister Nenkov, and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the answers of the Minister of the Interior Mr. Yordan Bakalov. He will be the first to ask Mr. Krasimir Jankov a question about the work of the Ministry of Interior to ensure the holding of parliamentary elections 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u161	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, you have already had the opportunity through the media to some extent inform the Bulgarian citizens, but my specific question to you is: however, as the most important task of the office to ensure the holding of the early parliamentary elections for the Forty-third National Assembly, what concrete measures did the Ministry of Interior take in the fight against buying and selling votes? In which electoral areas were the largest contingent activity established involved in this activity and which district directorates of the Ministry of Interior took the most appropriate action? What is the number and who are the persons to whom action has been taken to initiate a criminal procedure? And how do you evaluate your work as a minister of service at the Ministry of Interior in the part of the interaction with the professional management at the Ministry level and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u162	For an answer, Minister Bakalov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u163	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Iankov, for the implementation of the main task of the office, namely the production of fair elections, an additional organization was established in the Ministry of Interior for better coordination of the activities of the structures in the period of preparation itself and in the production of the elections for the National Assembly on 5 October 2014. As early as the end of August, the Ministry of Interior also started working at a civil expert council that supported preventive action to prevent abuse of citizens' electoral rights. A special working group co-ordinated the activities of the Ministry of Interior with the CEC, the Council of Ministers and NGOs on the issues of preparation and production of elections. For the first time, preventive operational and search activities were planned and implemented to counter vote buying. As a result of the signed agreement between the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office and the DANS joint operational groups were established at national and local level. An analysis of the risk sections and individuals involved in buying and selling votes was carried out. The analysis was based on data from the elections held in 2011, 2013 and 2014. The specific organisational and management tasks, operational and search activities, security and prevention actions, fire safety, information and communication provision were carried out on a pre-designed plan with precise deadlines and responsibilities. Two weeks before the election day, a 24-hour telephone line was opened, an internet address and fax number were announced, where citizens had the opportunity to report violations or possible crimes seen by them in the electoral process relevant to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Interior. An organization was established to exchange information in real time between the structures of the Ministry of Interior, which contributed to rapid response and carrying out checks on alerts received and on Phone 112 for violations of electoral law. For security, public order, fire safety and countering crimes against citizens' political rights, nearly 20 thousand employees were employed at the Ministry of Interior. A total of 877 signals for violation of the electoral process were received during the preparation process and on the day of the election. In the SDVR the signals are 85, in the Ministry of Interior - Vratsa 71, in Stara Zagora "55, Haskovo................................... Montana.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... At least are the signals in Kardzhali 4 and in Razgrad 7. A total of 70 pre-trial proceedings for crimes against citizens' political rights have been initiated in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. On 13 October 2014, the investigation into 15 pre-trial proceedings was concluded. In 7 pre-trial proceedings, the work has ended with an opinion on the termination of criminal proceedings, 4 pre-trial proceedings have ended with an opinion on the transfer of a court to the accused persons, and 4 pre-trial proceedings have already been brought into force. For the first time in the preparation and production of elections were held preventive operational and search events in very good coordination between the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result, countering crimes against citizens' political rights led to a reduction in the share of votes bought in the country's districts where there was the greatest risk of crimes against citizens' political rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u164	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u165	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I assume that your time has been insufficient and you have something more to say, so I am also making this reply to you to use the opportunity during the duplicate, however specifically and on the question: how do you evaluate your work as Minister of the Ministry of Interior in the field of cooperation with the professional management at the level of the Ministry of Interior and at the level of the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u166	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u167	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yankov, I can't assess my own work. Let the people make that assessment. For me, the best indicator of all this is that for the first time in 25 years there are no remarks from PACE examiners to the Ministry of Interior. I am convinced that when the Ministry of Interior is not used for political purposes, it can work, and not only can it, it does this job. Therefore, every future Minister of the Interior is nice to continue what I bet with my team, even though I am a Minister of the Interior, namely the depoliticisation of the ministry itself. No one can accuse the Ministry of Interior of one way or another of turning a blind eye to any violations from any political party. However, one thing I would like to say as your former colleague: it is all about interest, i.e. who is interested in doing the voting schemes. They're not like Bye Ivan, Grandma Seeka and everything. It is clear that the interest has it precisely political powers and they realize it. The paradox is that in the realization of this interest the state structure of the Ministry of Interior wastes time, forces and resources to counteract all of this. Yes, if you have to ask me about the relationship with professional leadership, as you asked me, my relationship was as set out in the law. You know what you bet before that. I have not been involved in the adoption of this law. For me, the law, good or bad, must be applied and implemented, and that is what I have done, for which, nevertheless, I would like to thank the employees of the Ministry of Interior who believed me and showed that they can work. They have shown that they can handle this ugly phenomenon of buying and selling votes. My wish to each next, I also address each and every one of you: pay attention to and draw the parallel next year in the local elections what will happen? Then you can ask me to comment on what happened for example next year in the local elections and how the Ministry of Interior acted. I know the score right now. Without appearing as Grandma Vanga, God rest her soul, but the result I know, the actions I know too. I hope you're also observing, analyzing. We know each other, let's hear from each other, and above all, let's be safe and sound! Thank you. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u168	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. Next is a question by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov concerning the construction of an additional security facility on the Bulgarian-Turkish border. We're listening, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question was largely exhausted and enlightened by you, Minister, during the hearing by Mr. Rosen Petrov and Mr. Belemezov of ABB. Nevertheless, I would like to sharpen again the interest and attention to this important issue for national security, namely: what is your expert opinion on the issue of extending the fence? By the way, in some of your public statements, including during the hearing, you are talking about an additional facility, a fence, a protective facility, and so on. These terminological differences appeared, in my opinion, mainly in your dispute with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov. But here we must be very clear that the suggestion of non-governmental organisations is not at all a guarantee of national security. This question is and will be very serious. I do not ask the question in order to pick on you, I would like to stress that I appreciate your efforts as Minister of Interior in the course of the efforts and implementation of the plan of the Ministry of Interior, but it is really important to hear your expert opinion. It should be handed over to the next interior ministers, whoever they are, to see what we do as a state, because it is clear what means we give for living guards, for living power, for video surveillance that are ensuring, but the human factor cannot be erased and exhausted. Moreover, I use here and the presence of Mr. Porozhanov as Minister of Finance, he is very well acquainted as a former executive director of the State Fund of Agriculture, that many of the farmers have repeatedly insisted, given the danger of developing foot-and-mouth disease, to build such facilities. So, it will be very important and interesting to me your opinion, above all, as an expert and not as a politician, because it is clear that a political decision should be taken on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u170	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Mr. Bakalov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Merdjanov, since you're asking me this question, I'm going to put aside the answer that the Ministry has prepared for me, and I'm going to do it on purpose. I will once again present to you the different options and I will tell you my vision. Yeah, you're asking me a question about the facility. My opinion is that it can be continued and will solve many problems in relation to pressure, in relation to farmers, diseases, smuggling and so on. I can even give an example. Where a facility was built at the moment, before it there were about 160 employees on duty, now around 50-60. This is one option, i.e. the continuation of the facility. However, the other thing that can happen must be reported. And not only can it, I'm sure it will. Then they will really try to go around Turkey - Greece - Bulgaria: this is the one time, and the other time is the sea, namely Istanbul - the Black Sea - Romania, including Bulgaria. This must never be missed. When talking and operating this facility, if it is done, it should be taken into account. The other option is not the construction of such a facility. He's the cheapest option. This is the option with the completion of the video surveillance on 30 June next year and the signing, however, mandatory, of a readmission agreement with the Republic of Turkey. However, it is not the agreement which entered into force on 1 October 2014 between Turkey and the European Union, with the conditions if such an agreement is signed. For your information, I had a working meeting with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are working groups working on this option to be able to implement it including. That's the cheapest option. And the third option that can be realized is an increase in composition. Each of these options has an advantage, and there is a flaw. I told you which is the cheapest option, I told you which is the most expensive option. The question, however, is who will be the most effective. Something I would like to address to you and tell you: yes, the construction of such a facility some of our partners would not welcome it, but then when I gave them an example of construction not of a fence but of a fence 6 m high in Spain, as well as other facilities, there was no answer. Be politicians at the level you need to be to defend the Bulgarian national interests, because this is a problem of our national security in the future. You are the people who need to make these management decisions, and as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u172	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov. Mr. Merdjanov has the word again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I hope your wish is addressed to all MPs, not just to the left, because just the representatives of the left side supported the construction of a facility with a clear understanding that it is an obstacle, a necessary and mandatory obstacle, which guarantees national security. And it doesn't matter what non-governmental organizations, which of the partners insist it doesn't exist. Thank you for this sincere and honest conversation. I hope that, as a lecturer in your next household, you will have the necessary influence with your expertise in forming a common national solution on this issue, because it is more than clear that the integrated efforts of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, for which we insisted on attending the hearing, and of the Minister of Interior, and of the Minister of Defence, are needed for the final resolution of this problem. And the contribution of our special services to this matter is of particular importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u174	Thank you. Would you like the word again, Minister? You have a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Merdjanov, yes, in order for any help to be provided, she must be requested. You know me very well. So again, as the last thing I wanted to do was wish you to stand up for national interests. Sometimes you may have to go into conflict or clash with the partners, but for you it must be a leading one that has always led to me that democracy means order and legality. When you obey the law and apply it, no one can attack you and no one can be dissatisfied with your desire to secure national security. It is nice with Bulgaria's national positions to show that we really do have a self-confidence that we, indeed, as an external border of the European Union, strive, and not only strive to become members of the Schengen area, but, at the same time, some try to balance almost by opening the border. For your information, as of November 6th, I have ordered 100 percent control at the southern border and last week at our western border. It relates to all processes that are related to refugee pressure plus the war in the Middle East, namely the Islamic State. As they say, good luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u176	Thank you, Mr. Bakalov, for your work as Minister of Interior in the caretaker government, and also for the wish you made to the MPs and the next government to defend the Bulgarian national interests. The next question is the MP Ivan Valkov. It is included in the programme, but Minister Bakalov in the official order has requested a postponement of this issue for further information. Do you think you can accept that he's not answering right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u177	If there's no information...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u178	Yeah. It is included in the programme, but a request for postponement has been issued in a timely manner, as the Rules allow. So now we can end the questions to Minister Bakalov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u179	There were others...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u180	I don't know why they're not included. It wouldn't be right to ask questions now and answer them because they weren't announced yesterday as required. We will therefore thank you at this time for your participation. We move on to the questions to Minister Rumen Porozhanov. Firstly, a question from Cornelia Ninova about the state of the fiscal reserve.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u181	Dear Minister, as you know, we are about to have a serious conversation in Parliament regarding the revision of the 2014 budget and adoption of the 2015 budget. This conversation will be hot, I believe with arguments from all sides. But lately too much has been said about incorrect budgeting for 2014 and financial problems through this incorrect budgeting for 2014. One of the parameters of the budget that guarantees financial stability is the fiscal reserve. So my question is: how much money is in the state reserve by the end of September? If you can tell us what the structure of the reserve is, i.e. how much money from the Silver Fund, how many commercial banks and so on? What is your forecast for state reserves by the end of the year? Do you have any concerns? Will the reserve take over the debt payments at the beginning of next year? And how will your forecasts for 2015 develop by the end of 2014?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You have the floor, Mr. Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, of course, the issue of the fiscal reserve and its management is extremely important. Therefore, thank you for your question. I would like to bring the following information to your disposal. The amount of the fiscal reserve as of 30 September of this year amounts to 8 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. are deposits of the fiscal reserve in BNB and 676 million. lv. are claims on European Union funds for certified expenditure, advances and others. According to the new methodology of this year, these claims from the European Union are charged in the amount of the fiscal reserve. As you know, at the end of June Bulgaria issued bonds on international financial markets of 2.9 billion. BGN, which aims to ensure payments by the maturity bonds in mid-January. On the current size of the fiscal reserve, the exceptional issue of short-term S.E.C. at the end of June, issued to provide liquidity support in the banking sector of 1 billion. 200 million. lv. You know that it was for a specific bank and followed the Commission's decision on State aid, which was authorised in this sector. For this reason, the current size of the fiscal reserve is high precisely because of these two large emissions over 4.1. The larger upcoming payments by the end of the year and at the beginning of 2015 will inevitably reduce the resources of the fiscal reserve significantly, and they are as follows: SSB claims issued on the internal market by the end of 2014, amounting to 1.6 billion. BGN, including 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article The effort is at the end of November. At the beginning of 2015, payments for domestic and, above all, foreign government debt with interest amount to around 2 billion. lv. Payments under the common agricultural policy of the European Union under direct payments schemes and others: by the end of 2014, we have payments for the so-called Agro-environment payments that amount to nearly 150 million. EUR or about 300 million. BGN and direct area payments, which are usually paid in January, amounting to 1.1 billion. lv. Of course, last but not least, a resource is also needed to finance the current deficit in the last quarter of 2014 and the beginning of 2015. The estimates for the existence of the fiscal reserve at the end of the year, which I will present to you a little later, are consistent with the version of the introduced update of the Budget Act, namely the provision of the deficit, which is set in the update, the Parliament will have the final solution on these issues, as well as the provision of liquid support in the banking sector. In this case, there are several options. The first option, which is mandatory in my opinion, is the continuation of liquid support to the specific bank, of course, to a reduced amount of 900 million. BGN, as the aid will be recovered and the short-term S.E.C. will be recovered at the end of November, as well as the related payments with the case CCB. As things are going, the estimates are in the hypothesis of securing a guarantee from the Guarantee Fund or providing a resource that the State will provide as a loan to the Guarantee Fund so that the guaranteed deposits can be started in time according to the deadlines and paid out. In these options, depending on how the Budget Act will be adopted, the estimates for the end of the year amount to 7.3 billion. lv. the existence of a fiscal reserve which will, in fact, provide an opportunity to pay precisely these major losses at the beginning of January, as I mentioned in relation to external debt, direct payments to producers and the current deficit for January.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u184	Minister, didn't you notice that time is up?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u185	Excuse me! Should I interrupt?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u186	If you think it's very important, one or two more sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u187	I'm sorry, this is the first time I've answered a question and I didn't take your remark. In conclusion, I make a commitment to provide you with a specific reference so that you can check the reliable fiscal reserve numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I have given more time because you have announced important new information, which I suppose will be commented by the MPs. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u189	Thank you. I'd rather use the possibility of a line to ask an additional question. Mr. Minister, from the information you provided, roughly, of course, and quickly calculated, there may be about 400-500 million left after all the payments are covered by both debt and farmers, and so on. How do you view the possibility of using these funds for expenses and reducing the possible loan you want to borrow further? Why am I asking this question? Because if the loan is reduced, it will reduce the new debt that you expect the state to take over under what conditions, what interest rates and so on. Isn't it cheaper for the state and more profitable for both the economy and for the country to use the balance of the fiscal reserve - funds that remain free without breaching, of course, the mandatory minimum that Bulgaria must maintain - to use these funds for expenditure instead of raising with so much debt and taking a new large loan - to reduce its size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u190	Here you are, Mr. Minister, for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u191	The balance at the end of January after these payments are made, of course, you know, direct payments are due to be reimbursed until the end of the 45-day period, perhaps at the beginning of March. So the end-of-January estimate is that the funds that are in the fiscal reserve are about 3.8 billion. lv. Of course, inside is the hypothesis of the silver fund, inside would be the deposit that would be available at the relevant liquidity support bank. We can't spend with the fiscal reserve. As you know, costs are made on the basis of limits, cost ceilings and restrictions. Precisely, in order not to distort the balance currently found by the government in the fiscal reserve so as to secure the payments and efforts by January, all necessary funds as a financial resource for the fiscal reserve, which would be an element of the update, should be provided on a market basis. Here is also the big problem that you are very aware of... there is very little time left for the government to come to the market and provide this resource. Budget update, I suppose, will be a priority of both the next government and parliament. It must be done as quickly as possible so that communication can be made. We are in communication with the Bulgarian banks as well as with foreign investors in terms of providing maximum effective resources for the fiscal reserve. Of course, the parameters will be determined with the update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u192	Thank you. The next question is from the MP Rumen Gechev on budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, colleagues! First of all, I want to say a very important sentence. Very precisely, colleague Porozhanov gave the data for the fiscal reserve as it should be. This is very important news, as it was constantly claimed that the state was left in an unenviable financial state. We just found out from the Finance Minister what? That's eight billion. 800 million. lv. are enough to meet all payments of the Bulgarian state by the end of 2014, including covering the big payment on 15 January 2015. This is very important information! So the reserve guarantees payments to the Bulgarian state. Secondly, my question with regard to budget expenditure, Minister, is as follows: what criteria did you use to reduce costs? We understand, given that the revenues are less than expected, the Ministry of Finance should properly reduce costs. However, we are worried that you are reducing expenditures that bring revenue to the capital expenditures are delayed, cutting the public investment programme, resulting in a reduction of revenue in the budget. In this regard, we must also answer the question: why are you reducing the costs that are laid down in the Budget Act 2014 and you are making expenditure that is not in the Budget Act 2014, I exclude the few million we have paid for natural disasters and which we do not comment on. They're a small part. The more important part of the issue is for budgetary expenditure, criteria and indicators for optimization: why were expenditures made and made outside the Budget Act 2014? Do you think the National Assembly can make an update of the budget by legitimizing expenditure incurred prior to the update? Won't there be a legal problem here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u194	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u195	Straight to the point, to save time. Thank you, Mr. Gechev, for the question. The subject is very long, so within 3 minutes I would hardly cover the whole subject. I am glad that last week we had the opportunity to debate at the Ministry of Finance, including with you, the topics regarding the implementation of the budget and the need for an update. What you said about the fiscal reserve, yes, these are the parameters. They provide, including the month of January, but do not provide for the possible update that is essential. It is necessary from the point of view of clearing the disproportions within the revenue section and the voltage in the expenditure section. I certainly definitely want to answer you and I think that you know this very well: expenditure contrary to the Budget Act, which is contrary to the Public Finance Act, has not been carried out and cannot be carried out. I don't think the Ministry of Finance has ever allowed a minister to do such a thing. Of course, additional costs which have been imposed and have been made by a government decision are within the framework of adjustments from savings on the central budget. Two words for expenses. The expenditure was extremely tense in the context of the fact that directly the budgets of ministries and departments were limited, firstly, with a buffer of 5%, the second with the update of another 5%, which in the fourth quarter is capitalised within a 15% reduction and when providing the public investment programme a reduction of an average of 12% of the ministries' budgets, which strained the pressure on them to carry out their functions. Although the budgets were reduced, the cost ceilings of the ministries in the formation of the budget, it is undeniable that no policies were made to optimize expenditure in the ministries. On the contrary, there were acts, an example is the Ministry of Interior Act, in which, with the increase of wages, which are over 80% salaries and insurance in the budget, the shortage of only the budget of the Ministry of Interior at the end of the year is between 175 and 200 million. BGN, depending on whether it will be paid and everything on the alimony. You're aware that we've done a lot in terms of analysis. To my delight, the analysis did not show anything dramatic, including costs that were agreed and would create problems in the future. However, the inflation of the cost ceilings and the analysis we have made, the only costs we have made, see, the largest cost, the provision of 26.5 million for the elections, an extraordinary cost. From the restructuring of the state budget, judicial board and justice, only in the system of courts and in the system of prisons. Of course, you know both about television and radio....in the framework of payments for broadcasting the radio signal. So the costs incurred are only from the point of view of providing resources through restructuring and savings to the central budget with the corresponding sanction, which is by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u196	Thank you. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, we have listened carefully to your explanations. However, we did not hear about any system of revenue, expenses and optimization, which was the rule of the Ministry of Finance. There probably wasn't enough time for that. I am not satisfied with the response to a reduction in the cost of investment in municipalities. There is no way to accept that the investment programme, which is harmful to municipalities, is going to extend not only 3-4 months, probably until the end of the year and the beginning of the year, the possibility for municipalities to realise the projects that have been established and the municipalities or the state will also be deprived of additional revenue. In a word, we object and disagree with the reduction of the investment programme, but the creation of additional funds that you yourself mentioned. In the Budget Act 2014 there is no "Complete of a sports complex" in Plovdiv, nor is this section in the subway provided for in the budget for 2014, nor is the additional costs for BNT, CEM and others, just before the elections. So we agree on some things, but with others we are not, I would stress again, especially with the reduction of the production part of budget expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u198	Thank you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u199	Thank you. Dear Mr. Gechev, of course, trying to get into the three minutes, I missed the public investment program. The public investment programme is not shortened. On the contrary, the municipalities, in fact only 10 million of them, were not negotiated by September 17th. In any case, there had to be and it was laid down and in the decree we extended this deadline, was also set by colleagues from the previous government a period by which to negotiate and complete public procurement. It is the municipal projects that have been negotiated nearly 90 million. BGN, with only 10 million of them not agreed. The main funds that were not agreed are in the Ministry for certain reasons. I couldn't comment on them individually. Of course, they create a resource, create an opportunity to accumulate tax revenues. It is a very separate issue that the revenues accumulated from a construction activity for a fissure are of a certain percentage related to the respective taxes and social security and, therefore, the costs are 100%. However, it is not a coincidence that, as you know, we have provided a transfer to the National Fund so that it can continue precisely the projects, the major, the suspended operational programmes, the environment, in particular, so that, on the one hand, they create prerequisites for opening and showing that the managing authority has cleared the problems that there are, on the other hand, not to lose funds at the end of the year under the N + 2 operating programmes rule, of course, and in the hypothesis of not failing the construction business and in general projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u200	Thank you. Following a request from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski on revenue policy in the state budget on 30 September 2014 and the expected implementation on 31 December 2014. You have three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! After the long debates on the state of public finances, the need to update the budget, such a bill has already been tabled, and we have all come to know it. We have heard the position of our political power in terms of spending. What concerns me and made me ask you this question is in terms of revenue and revenue policy. Dear Mr. Porozhanov, what is the policy regarding the implementation of revenue by 30 September? What is the expected execution by the revenue agencies, what is their estimate by the end of the year? What is the effect of the legislative changes introduced in 2014 in the Value Added Tax Act and the new structure created in the National Revenue Agency? Of course, what are the measures taken and what is the effect of improving collection in revenue agencies? We know that many measures have been made and the caretaker government has also made personnel changes. What's the effect of that? A State Budget Bill 2015 will also be submitted. All these questions will also give answers to questions that will arise under this bill. My expectation was to implement the Public Finance Act and to submit such a bill to the Council of Ministers by 31 October. My expectations were also that you would comply with and comply with the provisions of the Public Finance Act in its part on fiscal rules with regard to revenue increases or revenue reductions and a corresponding increase and cost reductions. I'm waiting for your answer, and I'll have some further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u202	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, we have had the opportunity to debate with you at the Ministry of Finance, which I think was useful. I'll start backwards on the extra questions. The Public Finance Act and the deadline for the submission of the annual Budget Act is an instructive period. You know that. We are ready and bid it within the framework of the budgetary procedure that has started since February until now, the Ministry of Finance has more than 90 percent and several percent of the estimates, forecasts, macro economic framework and everything under the Budget Act. Of course, next year's budget is a completely different issue, and the policies that need to be laid down in it should be made by a regular government. At least we do not believe that in the context of next year's budget, the instructive deadline should oblige us to do so. The update, given the urgency and as a commitment, of course, to the caretaker government as soon as the President was appointed, was done and tabled. With regard to the revenue side. The main problem of revenue, without saying how it came about or not, a problem. The main problem of revenue is their overestimate in the context of revenues under the consolidated fiscal programme by more than 2 billion compared to the 2013 report and by more than 1.7 billion of tax revenue this year. We've been debating macroeconomic indicators with you. The growth of 1.8, which we expect to be 1.5 with the problem, however, in the deflator, which goes into negative values due to low prices, the low collection options mostly of VAT from imports as a base and, of course, the value of these parameters. This is the big problem, and within the course of the actions taken throughout the year, of course, and by the caretaker government, the expectations of defaulting revenues are to be reduced, to have an increase of about 1 billion in revenue, but not to compensate for the full amount of 2 billion, which is under the consolidated fiscal programme. Several numbers, of course, in the specifics of your questions: - The total amount of revenue and aid under the state budget at the nine-month period amounts to 13 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which represents 69% of those estimated in the - The tax receipts are respectively at the same period as 11,8 billion or 68,3% of the annual estimates or compared with the same period of 2013 the tax receipts increased by 5,6% or by nearly 300 million. lv. - The expected implementation that we have set in the budget update, of course, will probably have a partial correction in these parameters, as this was done more than a month ago, is worth 1 billion. 61 million. lv. Less than the revenues laid down under the Budget Act. In relation to the additional mechanisms and measures in particular, it is precisely the VAT reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops. As you know, this reverse charge mechanism is precisely to prevent the shift of VAT fraud in other economic sectors, particularly in the processing industry, milk, brewery and so on, and to prevent the declaration of fictitious exports of cereals and technical crops to the basic measure for which additional measures are identified, which are implemented by the NRA in the following additional directions. - Strengthen control over the supply and movement of cereals and technical crops with a major focus on the export of these goods, on means of transport, trucks, railway formations, ships and any other means of transport. - Identification of persons using the reverse charge mechanism, enhanced monitoring and control of their activities. - Monitoring and strengthening control of cereals processing industries. At the moment, by the ten months, the effect that has been calculated from the point of view of the declaration and recovery of cereals is 149 million. lv. from the reverse charge. They are expected to come close to 200 million. lv. Of course, you also know as a tax specialist, in recent months there is also a return to the calculations. With regard to fiscal control over the movement of goods at high fiscal risk. The movement of goods is constantly improved and, on the one hand, the scope of the risk goods to be controlled is extended and, on the other hand, the fiscal control checks have a major focus on the intra-Community acquisition of risk goods and other Member States of the European Union. After the initially revealed fiscal posts at border crossings with Romania and Greece, additional ones were introduced to Serbia and Turkey at both sea ports in Varna and Burgas. It is only from the additional measures for the new control points that the effect is over 25 million. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Shall I finish?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u204	Yeah, finish up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u205	Within a minute, thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the control of supplies on the movement of excise goods. There was definitely a problem in communication between the NRA and Customs with regard to information, the exchange that is mostly related to the realization of fuels when the fuels came out of the excise warehouses. The BASIS Information System of the Customs Agency and, respectively, the NRA are bound and it is precisely the effect of the VAT monitoring in the realization of these excise goods that is expected to be within 34-35 million. lv. Increasing the effectiveness of forced collection. I would like to stress that the NRA has had an enhanced collection since the beginning of the year, as well as at the moment, of the delays that have been formed. Here we expect an effect in the various taxes that are described, about 241 million. lv. Of course, all these effects are also reflected in the forecast that we have made in the framework of the expected implementation of the revenues of the consolidated fiscal programme and the Budget Act. Then I'll give you a table that breaks taxes at different times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u206	Mr. Turnover, you have the opportunity to ask two supplementary questions in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! Dear Mr. Porozhanov, one question is: is the developed concept of a Single Revenue Agency by the Ministry of Finance part of the policy for improving the collection of revenue? My second question. You said the commitments to update the budget were made by the President and that is why you are submitting such an update. Such an update was also proposed in the middle of this year, which we did not support, of course, by the previous government, but there the experts and agencies with which you worked, albeit under pressure, as has been recorded I wanted to hear: what motivates and what has changed in these few months, so out of 500 million expected income defaults they have reached almost a billion and a hundred? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u208	Thank you. Mr. Porozhanov, please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u209	Regarding the estimated revenue, we debated this with you. Only by the seven months, the default of revenue, which was made as an estimate at the beginning "by mid-August, was over 600 million. I don't want to comment on the update that was submitted. Rather, it reflected more objectively the problems that were in the banking sector that would arise. Of course, in the context of the additional costs and in the context of the revenue problem, even as we discussed it with you, it is my opinion, it was not correct enough to respond to the analysis by the end of the year. Of course, that it is written in the presidential programme, namely in the government's programme announced by the President, the issue of update is an important one, not that it has been announced by the President, as long as there is a need to do this thing. We have debated this, this will be debated, and I suppose in the committees, I hope rather, within the current discussions that will be. First question. Conception The Ministry of Finance within the caretaker government has not developed. In no way has the Ministry of Finance worked in such a... [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Mrs. Ninova, that's right. Nobody at the ministry worked and we didn't announce it. There is also a special message on the Ministry's website. Of course, as a commitment made under the political programmes, this is a very separate issue. Our view is that such a realization of such a project, if it is realized, should be done very carefully so as to analyse all the links that need to be made.. each employee knows his place at the launch of such a procedure if it is realized so that the realization of such a mechanism does not cause a collapse in revenue which, anyway, are a sensitive topic at the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Turnovallisky, if you'd like to express your attitude towards the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Dear Mr. Porozhanov, thank you for your reply, but I am not satisfied. I expected a lot more. Yes, you mentioned the meeting we had at the Ministry of Finance, which we attended with colleague Gechev and the Temporary Budget Committee. There you stated that you would provide us with this detailed analysis relating to everything I asked. We didn't get one, I hope it will be provided to us. If I had received this analysis and it pleased me, we wouldn't be having this conversation. So I expect to get an analysis by type, cost and revenue. As for the concept of a Single Revenue Agency, I'm surprised you don't know. I have such a document and I have it, I'll show it to you. I'm sorry if someone is preparing such a concept in the Ministry of Finance and you as Minister are not familiar. That would be very unfortunate. I don't believe that's true. I know about your statement, officially, through the Ministry's website that there is no such concept and such a union is not being prepared, but this creates incredibly much tension in both, I would say, the most important revenue agencies in the country, of which a great deal is expected. I believe that things should be put clearly, honestly and openly before those many thousands of people who work there, for whom any change is of great importance. I'd like to have a conversation with you and clarify this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u212	Thank you. There is another request to the Minister of Staff of Finance from the National Representative Lilyana Pavlova on the financial implementation of the operational programmes financed by... [[Heckling]] Okay, she asked for a written answer. Then we'll finish the questions for you, thank you for your participation. We are moving on to a question that will be answered by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ms. Nikolina Angelkova. It will be asked by the National Representative Ivan Valkov about the financial and economic situation of the Port of Burgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Port of Burgas is one of the main ports of national importance for Bulgaria, all the more so that it is already in the core network of TNT, the European transport structure, Europe's connection to Caucasian republics and Central Asia. Its importance has grown immensely since the completion of the highway "Trakiya" and the completion of the railway section Plovdiv "Burgas." In this regard, my question to you is to be provided with information about the financial and economic situation of the Port of Burgas (Port of Burgas) for 2013 and 2014, for the period 1 January - 1 December 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u214	Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u215	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Valkov! In the last three years, the port of Burgas EAD has changed significantly the nature and conditions of its work, the volume of the goods processed, the material base being exploited and the number of staff members. As you know, a significant impact on the financial situation of the company in the period after 2008 was made on the commitments made to service the relevant part of the loan under the loan agreement with the Bank of Japan for loan service under the Project. The closure of the main freighter "Kremikovtsi" AD and the problems with the lack of cargo also led to the accumulation of significant losses and problems in fulfilling the commitments made with the payment of the loan with the Bank of Japan. As a result of the concession procedures carried out at the Burgas Iztok-2 terminal at the end of 2011 and the Burgas West terminal in 2013, the main part of the credit obligations under the agreement were borne by the concessionaire. This provided the necessary conditions to stabilise the company and improve its financial and economic performance. In 2013, the company processed 1 million. Seventy-six thousand. Tonnes of cargo in plan of 820 thousand. the tone. In the nine months of 2014, 349 thousand were processed. tons of cargo in plan 290 thousand. the tone. For the financial year 2013, the net sales and other income revenue is 20 million. 623 thousand. BGN, operating costs Seven hundred and sixty-six thousand. lv. and a financial result of a net profit of 4 million has been reported. $240,000. lv. For the nine months of 2014, net sales revenue and other activities are 6 million. 275,000. BGN and operating costs 5 million 508 thousand. BGN, reporting financial result current profit of 460 thousand. lv. with a plan of 292 thousand. lv. In practice, at the moment after the concessionation of the terminal, only the passenger traffic of the sea station and 4-5 shipping places in Burgas East-1 is operated by the Port of Burgas. The capacity and quality of the service offered when serving cruise ships will allow revenue from passenger traffic services to form an increasing proportion of the company's revenue in the coming years. The average number of employees in 2013 was 375 pcs and at the end of the nine months in 2014 was 229 pcs. in the case of a plan of 215 pcs. The problems facing the company are related to several main points. On the one hand, a restructuring of the activity and development of passenger traffic for the service of cruise ships is necessary, on the other hand, the implementation of commitments on the realization of public access sites Burgas, and last but not least, the preservation of the conditions for assuming freight traffic at some of the shipping locations in the terminal Burgas East-1. It is also necessary to seek and find the most appropriate options for releasing the unused material base remaining after the concessionation of both terminals, cranes, port equipment and others. The challenges facing the port of Burgas are crucial to tackling the constant balance and flexibility of the financial policy carried out by the company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I will start with what you have completed, namely the problems and goals that stand before the Port of Burgas. You have rightly and faithfully pointed them out, but in order for them to be resolved, it must also be very true and accurate to assess the current financial and economic situation of the port, at the basis of which the goods and the staff are processed. What was presented to us was compared to what was planned for 2014. I think this is where the key lies, but I'll start with the list. We were presented with the mediocre staff, and more important is how the port began to be managed at the end of May and the beginning of June, when there were 207 people in the list, and by 1 October 2014, there were 240 people, that is, we have an increase of about 37 people, or that is more than 15% of the employees in the Port of Burgas. From another point of view, it has been said that there is an increase in processed loads, but this increase is artificial, as it is based on the planned. What does it mean based on the plan? It is simply at the end of December 2013 that we are planning to reduce the load by about 20% or, if we make a comparison, we see that in 2013 we have treated 398.9 tonnes for the same period and for the same shipping places, and for 2014 we have 362 tonnes, that is to say we have a 36 thousand reduction. Tonnes, which means that there is a reduction in load capacity. By whom is this decision in the Ministry of Transport to be approved planning, with a reduction of around 20% in revenue and a 15% increase in the staff, resulting in a real reduction in freight and this also leads to a decrease of 22% of the goods processed by one worker? These are my questions to you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u218	Thank you. Come in for an additional answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valkov, you know that one of the main tasks in front of the office and especially in the Ministry of Transport was improving the financial and economic situation of the companies. Since the management has opened such unrealistic planning and upgrade of the average staff staff, we have therefore decided to change the management of the Port of Burgas. I hope, since we do not want to go back, we look forward that by the end of this and next year the financial performance of the company will be improved, and of course we are also checking with regard to the activities of the Directorate for Control and Management of Commercial Companies how all these indicators are laid down in the business plan of the company and in the annual implementation plan whether they are approved in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. We move on to answers from the Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Rumyana Kolarova. The first question is from the National Representative Milena Damyanova on the provision of funds for the continuation of the projects "Success" and "Succeeding the quality of education in secondary schools through the introduction of a full-time organization of the educational process." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! In 2011, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Science then launched two extremely important projects in the school education system. One of them was the project "Success" at the time 95 million. BGN, which finance extracurricular activities of students in more than 1300 schools or so-called "Zanimanias of interest." The other project is to improve the quality of education in the middle schools by introducing a full-time organisation of the learning process, a project worth more than 180 million. lv. This project financed the full-time organization of the school day and lunch meals of the students in nearly 800 metropolitan schools in Bulgaria. I will just say that over 2.5 million projects under the project have been financed over the three-year period of implementation of these projects. the hours of interest activities, and under the project A whole day-long organization of the learning process, more than 15 million have been financed. hours of additional pedagogical work with the students. One thing that is also extremely important and which we should emphasise is that the project provides the salaries of nearly 4,600 educators under the project. I know that in May 2014 the deadlines for both projects were extended, but I still get questions from both parents and teachers about the financial provision of these two projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u222	Here you are, Mrs. Kolarova, for the answer to the question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Damyanova! These two projects are the largest in the education system with the largest number of direct and indirect beneficiaries and with undoubtedly positive results on the school education system. At the same time, we must say that we cannot deprive ourselves of these two activities, which are implemented through the projects and from the point of view of the policy objectives in the sector. Specifically, your question. At a regular meeting in May 2014, the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" decided to increase the budget of the operation "Let's make the school attractive to the young people" by 9 million. Eight hundred and 200 leva. up to a total of 104 million Seven hundred and 170 BGN, which will ensure the implementation of the activities under the project "Success" by the end of the academic year 2014-2015 and this is the last school year for which there is an opportunity to be financed under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." However, the situation with the project is not so optimistic. At the same regular meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme, a decision was taken on the extension of the project until 30 June 2015, without however providing funds for the eight additional months. The necessary funds amount to approximately 36 million, of which 9 million.. for 2014, and 27 In this regard, during the service government period, we took the following actions. The Ministry of Education and Science analysed the expected savings from other operations financed under the third priority axis of the operational programme, on the basis of which I proposed to the Monitoring Committee an increase in the budget of the project lv. The increase was approved, together with the expected savings under the project itself, it will allow the costs to be secured by January 2015 including. We have proposed that 40 million be put in the 2015 draft budget. lv. for the full-time organisation of the school in the middle schools to ensure the activity for the 9 months of 2015, including for three months for the second period of the already started school year for which the project has been extended. As far as our forecast is that the additional savings under the operational programme will provide funds for a maximum of two more months, this 40 million. lv. are the minimum necessary to ensure that the activity is not interrupted by the end of 2015 and that no termination of the employment of the educators is required. Here I use the case to appeal for support from the MPs in examining the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u224	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova, for your reply to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u225	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I thank you for this answer, taking this opportunity to inform you that, as early as April 2014, the GERB Parliamentary Group alerted with a press conference that no funds were provided for these two extremely important projects for the system of popular education. Even then, we have alerted that there is a risk that more than 4,500 educators will remain virtually unemployed if the necessary funding is not provided. Unfortunately, then the minister did not pay much attention to our appeal at our press conference. Yes, in May, by the Monitoring Committee, the deadline, as you said, as I did at the beginning, was extended. But it is not important whether we extend the duration of a project, but whether we provide it financially. At the same time, however, several national programmes were announced, public procurement worth nearly 60 million. lv. It is unacceptable for a minister, much less for the Minister of Education not to make an education policy and replace it with public procurement, especially when it concerns both teachers' salaries and students' results and the calmness of the system. Yes, the 2015 budget is yet to be adopted, but you very rightly said that these funds were laid down in the 2015 budget precisely by the office. In the 2015 budget forecast, these funds did not appear, which means that perhaps the previous minister was simply preparing for elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u226	Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Kolarova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to add here, as I have already addressed the issue of financing beyond the deadline for the implementation of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and I will allow myself to say that it is essential for the further implementation of the activities of interest in schools and the launch of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." In this regard, we are making every effort to approve the operational programme as soon as possible. At the same time, we have developed and will offer the Operational Programme Monitoring Committee the criteria for selecting an operation..Development of students' abilities and increase their motivation for learning through activities developing specific knowledge, skills and competences, which will certainly guarantee us the continuity and sustainability of the activities developed so far. And the budget for this operation is 275 million. lv. Our intention is for the operation to finance 404 million. Hours of interest activities and additional pedagogical work in all schools for about 18 thousand groups involving 300,000 students. The idea base of the new operation is to upgrade the two previous projects, stepping on the positive experience of them, looking for a combination of the efficiency of the intervention system with the individual needs for development of students.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u228	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We now proceed to the response of the Minister of Defence Velizar Shalamanov. The question is of the MP Velizar Enchev concerning a request of the Commission on the files to the Office.. Military information................................. about the disclosure of the identity of foreign citizens who worked for the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u229	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues, honourable representatives of the Bulgarian media! On 28 October this year, the Chairman of the Committee of Files Evtim Kostadinov accused the Office of Military Information "This is military intelligence directly subordinate to Mr. Shalamanov, as well as the National Intelligence Service subordinate to the Head of State, that they refused to hand over their entire archives to the Commission of Files. According to Mr. Kostadinov, the main problem is with the documents of the Office - Military information - from which the Commission expected about 30 thousand archive units. In a statement to the media, Mr. Kostadinov announced that Minister of Defence Shalamanov ordered the documents to be submitted, but the office refused. Kostadinov also claims that you, Mr. Shalamanov, support his position, but your subordinate service, Military Information, is refusing to provide the documents with the argument that they also have names of foreign citizens. An analog problem exists with regard to civilian intelligence in the National Intelligence Service, but we are not talking about it now. Mr. Military Minister, are you in favour of the request of the Committee on Files to receive from the Military Information Service, I am specifying the military intelligence, secret documents, which will reveal the identity of foreign citizens, service collaborators, military information, thus endangering their security and life? A second question, have you given a written order to the Director of the Service of Military Information, which obliges him to disclose the names of foreign nationals of the service staff located in the territory of: Republic of Macedonia, Republic of Serbia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Greece, Egypt, Lebanon, Libya, Syria, Jordan, Algeria? Finally, Minister, do you not consider it extremely dangerous for national security, as well as for the authority of the Republic of Bulgaria to find the files of foreign citizens who worked for the interests of Bulgaria in the Balkans and in the Middle East? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u230	Didn't they ask to be decapitated their heirs?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u231	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. You have the floor, Mr. Shalamanov, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u232	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, there are three questions in your question. In response to the questions asked about the request of the Commission on the files to the Office "Military information" to reveal the identity of foreign nationals who worked for the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, I inform you of the following. Firstly, as Minister of Defence, I do not support the Commission's request on the files to the Office "Military information" to obtain classified documents revealing the identity of foreign nationals who are collaborators of the same service, without consistent guarantees that this will not result in endangering their security and life.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u233	How will they be guaranteed?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u234	Secondly, I have not given a written order to the Director of the Service.................................................................................................. Thirdly, I believe it is a serious risk to national security, as well as to the international authority of the Republic of Bulgaria to declassified the files of foreign citizens who worked for the Bulgarian Military Intelligence in the regions of Southeast Europe and the Middle East. Unfortunately, the application of the File Act is not supported by rules involving the Ministry of Defence, but only by rules that are essentially the Commission's Rules of Procedure. At the beginning of September this year, at a meeting at which I invited the President of the Commission and the Director of the Military Information Office, I proposed options for resolving the issue of completing the process of transmitting information and signing a protocol required by the law, and I expect an agreement between them in accordance with the laws and preventing the compromise of foreign citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u235	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. Line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u236	That's a more acceptable option.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u237	Mr. Shalamanov, thank you for your answer. I'm not gonna hide that I'm somewhat satisfied with what I've heard. However, I have a supplementary question for you and an opinion. In view of the national security of the country and the need to save financial resources, do you support changes in the Law on Files, revision of the Law on Files, passage of the Commission on Files to the Office of Military Information (Military Information) to the State Agency of National Security (National Security) and the establishment of the National Intelligence Service to them of the Public Council to issue individual moral assessments of the people whose files have been opened? And the most important question that I would like to ask you and which concerns the honour and dignity of the Bulgarian officership and the Bulgarian generality is the following. How do you assess what happened, the abuse with the Deputy Chief of Staff, said in modern language Deputy Chief of Defence General Neiko Nenov, who suffered a severe stroke and 48 hours ago was in critical condition after the Committee of Records 10 days ago announced his name in violation of the law, which requires that the person who will be sanctified be informed in writing by the Commission of Files, and this has not been done. Finally, to ask: is it a country where state secrets are public information?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u238	That's scary!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u239	Thank you, Mr. Enchev, for the line. Duplika, Minister Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the first question, it is difficult for me to comment, as this initiative must really be elected by Parliament's elected government, by Parliament. I really believe that revealing the full truth about the work of the special services during the communist regime is something that we owe to our citizens. And for the way it should be done, I believe that Parliament is the highest authority that needs to find the best way. Regarding your second question, I would like to confirm my high respect for both General Neiko Nenov and General Petev. I feel even some responsibility because I voted in full confidence to these two worthy Bulgarian officers in the leadership of the defence. It's a little out of the blue for me, it's a mystery how this system works and how the publications came up with revealing their belonging to military counterintelligence. In the case of Admiral Petev this happened at the time when he was a third year cadet, if I am not mistaken, travelling on a training ship abroad. This means that the essence of special services during the communist regime was really to repress people, to put them on lists and manipulate them to this day. As one Bulgarian series says: We are probably still in the hands of the same evil. I hope that you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, will find a way for Bulgaria to come out of the arms of this evil to be violated the honor of worthy officers of the Bulgarian Army who give their lives for the freedom of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u241	Thank you, Minister Shalamanov, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the answers of Mr. Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs. First will ask a question, in fact this is the only question to him, the people representative Velizar Enchev about the built 30km fence along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Mr. Enchev, we're listening. You have an opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u242	During the 69th regular session of the United Nations General Assembly in September in New York, you, Minister, held a meeting with your Turkish counterpart Mevlut Chavusoglu, during which a meeting you stated that: As is known, the recently built 30km fence along the Bulgarian-Turkish border costs more than 10 million. lv. and its purpose is not only to stop illegal refugees from the Middle East, but also to prevent the passage of foot-and-mouth disease animals. Therefore, your willingness, Mr. Minister, to dismantle a border facility that our country urgently needs with the increasing refugee flow. On this occasion, I have the following questions: on what logic, Mr. Minister, the concrete fence built by the Hellenic Republic along its borders with the Republic of Turkey is necessary, and the Bulgarian fence with Turkey is unnecessary, or is questioned? Why does the Turkish country want to remove the fence from us in the face of its ministers and the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in Sofia, and the Turkish country does not make such a request to the Hellenic Republic? I would also like to know your position on the 30-kilometer wire fence is it consistent with the defence and interior ministers, we just heard the Home Secretary, with the two ministers responsible for the construction of the fence and for border guards? I would like to remind you that on 11 September this year, you stated in bTV that Bulgaria is the target of the Islamic State and that the expansion of this country actually threatens Europe and the Balkans. But how, I ask, will we protect ourselves from this danger, when at the moment the Bulgarian-Turkish border is protected with only a 30km wire fence? In this regard, I will remind you of something very important to you, Minister, and to you, honourable colleagues and representatives of the Bulgarian media. On 19 August this year, the working Prime Minister, Mr. Bliznashki, announced the following: The funds will be allocated and we will prepare the project to cover the remaining 131 km from the border with Turkey, where the main refugee stream is going. In this situation, Minister, I have the impression that you and the working Prime Minister Mr. Bliznashki have different positions on the need to build and expand the wire fences along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Finally, let me say that Bulgarian society is entitled to know whether there is a unified position in the ruling circles for building a modern and secure fence along the border with the Republic of Turkey, and what is the official opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this issue? And my question is even more up-to-date, as you are scheduled to be next regular minister in the new Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u243	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Daniel Mitov, has the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u244	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! First of all, thank you for the question raised to me and allow me first of all to remind you that the decision to build a 30km obstruction facility at the most sensitive sections of our state border with the Republic of Turkey was taken by the government of Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski on 6 November 2013. This decision is a concrete initiative within the approved plan for the resolution of the crisis situation which occurred due to the increased migratory pressure on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that when announcing the decision to build the facility, the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mr. Tsvetlin Yovchev said that this facility is of a temporary nature. In this sense, as a minister of service, I have adhered to the position adopted by the previous government. I fully agree with you that, as an engineering project, the facility is designed to prevent cross-border crossings outside the regulated border crossing points. As you know, the facility is only an important element of the complex of initiatives and activities approved by the government in order to increase the effectiveness of monitoring and guarding our state border. Those measures provided for in that crisis management plan as well as in the plan adopted subsequently on 17 April 2014 to implement additional measures cover not only the border with Turkey but also our maritime and terrestrial borders with Greece, Romania, Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia. The Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the State Agency of National Security, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other departments are involved in the planned activities. I would also like to confirm that in the process is the examination of a project which provides for an additional engineering obstruction of a section of about 131 km along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, as confirmed by the Interior Minister before me. Answering your next question, I would like to assure you that there is a unified view in the government of continuing the construction of such a technical facility in terms of countering the illegal crossing of our state border. Dear Mr. Enchev, the new challenges Bulgaria has faced in recent years as a result of the increased migration flows requires measures to be taken not only at national level, but also significantly enhanced cooperation with neighbouring countries, as well as with countries of origin. Bulgaria maintains an active dialogue with the Republic of Turkey, which is our partner in NATO and which is under huge migration pressure as a result of the conflict in the Middle East. We appreciate bilateral cooperation on border surveillance and security as constructive and mutually understandable. In this sense, and I believe that you will understand me on the basis of your considerable professional experience of the diplomatic field, I continue to believe that facilities along our border should not be viewed by neighbouring Turkey as a factor with a negative impact on our bilateral relations. It aims to tackle a specific problem, namely the unprecedented migration pressure to which Bulgaria is subjected. I would also like to point out that, in order to guarantee our national interests, the government is making consistent efforts to find working solutions, including not only through bilateral dialogue with the Turkish authorities, but also within the European Union. An indication of the political will to resolve the migration problem is the signing and entry into force on 1 October 2014 of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons residing illegally. In the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is in the interests of the two parties to the Agreement to build an effective mechanism for its implementation. Within the same framework, a bilateral protocol between Bulgaria and Turkey for the entry into force of the Agreement should be drawn up and signed. The Ministry of Interior is in the process of finalising the draft of this document. I believe, dear Mr. Enchev, that you will share our common view that only with joint efforts Bulgaria, the European Union and Turkey would be able to respond to the common challenges faced by the migratory pressure arising from the illegal and barbaric actions of organizations such as the Islamic State and other terrorist structures. In conclusion, and in relation to the fact that some of the questions you have raised concern relations between third countries, in the case between Greece and Turkey, I do not find it appropriate to comment on them even from the parliamentary platform and I hope your professional understanding on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u245	The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u246	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Minister. I'm not hiding that I'm somewhat satisfied with what you just said. However, I will only add something very important that on 16 December last year a readmission treaty was signed in the face of Ms Cecilia Malmström and the Republic of Turkey. But you know very well that the Republic of Turkey is blocking the implementation of this treaty in different ways, as it insists on moving the visa waiver process for Turkish citizens to the European Union. I share this fact in the context of the issue of the wire enclosure or the enclosure along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, because the failure to realise the readmission treaty between the European Union, to which we are a member, and the Republic of Turkey, really creates the need to speed up the issue of the wire enclosure. And I fully support your vision and the minister of service, Bliznashki, I hope the new Council of Ministers on this matter. Of course, I agree with your reply with regard to the Hellenic Republic and third countries, which should not be affected, but I would remind the honourable audience that the subject of the walls is not such a problem for third countries. Such walls were built for various reasons, and also for civilization between the United States of America and Mexico, between Greece and Turkey, as I said. And one supplementary question, decide how you can answer and whether you should answer, but it is extremely important: do you approve of the negative position expressed publicly by the Turkish Ambassador to Sofia and also by the Minister for European Affairs of the Republic of Turkey Volkan Bozker, who said in a very clear tone in the last two months that they are against the construction and very existence of the wire enclosure, on the wall between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u247	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. A hole, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u248	Mr. Enchev, thank you for the constructive line. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a nutshell. You know that the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of illegally staying persons was signed on 16 December 2013 and entered into force on 1 October 2014. Under the Agreement, Turkey shall accept, at the request of a Member State of the European Union and without further formalities from that Member State, any third-country national or stateless person who does not or no longer meet the requirements in force for entry, stay or residence in the territory of the requesting Member State. Those commitments of the Turkish Party shall apply three years after the entry into force of the Agreement, i.e. from 1 October 2017. During this three-year period, the readmission obligation shall apply only to stateless persons and third-country nationals with whom Turkey has concluded bilateral readmission agreements or readmission agreements, and thereafter, i.e. after 1 October 2017 and to all other persons. In addition to the above, the readmission agreement will apply to the Republic of Bulgaria after the entry into force of a separate bilateral Bulgarian-Turkish protocol for its implementation. At present, the draft protocol is being prepared by the Ministry of Interior, and negotiations with the Turkish side are about to begin, that is, we need to conclude such an agreement very quickly and urgently, to sign such a protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u249	Thank you, Minister Mitov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. A question by Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova to Vasil Grudev You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u250	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is related to the situation in the business sector. Along with the problems that created the Russian embargo and the problems related to the efficiency of agricultural holdings, especially in the sector of "Life" in 2014 a very difficult situation related to "Synguish" disease was recorded in our country. According to official data from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I suppose these are operational data, the disease affected the entire territory of the country, and the losses that came out in the media are impressive as a figure. And in relation to the fact that for three months the Ministry has been working on this topic, my specific questions are related precisely: firstly, to the prevention of the disease especially for next year. You know that in order to have success in 2015 and to combat the disease, the measures that need to be taken, including you, must be implemented within this year. The first question that relates to the subject is: really, what measures has the Ministry of Agriculture and Food taken to prevent the disease from causing problems in the country next year? It is also important to provide correct information on how the Ministry of Agriculture and Food intends to compensate farmers for losses suffered? I must inform you that the losses almost automatically had to be realised and paid out to farmers, and there was a very long period of time in which they did not have any clarity on this issue. There have also been very controversial comments in the media about the methodology on which this compensation will be carried out. My request is for a correct response indeed: what will be the steps for implementing policy in this area? And perhaps last but not least, the answer to the question is: when will these compensations be received on the basis of the estimated losses? In the last few months, a number of assumptions have been given: from September, October, the beginning, early November, is now the end of November, and at the same time serious financial difficulties are being experienced by farmers. My request is for a correct response, given that there is indeed a very large group of farmers who are expecting these compensations and are hoping indeed that they will be received in a relatively short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u251	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u252	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, before I proceed to a specific answer to your three questions, please allow me to introduce the National Assembly to a brief chronology accompanying the development of the disease. On 15 April 2014, Greece sent an official notification to the European Commission, respectively to Bulgaria as a member state, that outbreaks of the disease On 15 May Greece sent a second notification to the European Union and to the member states of the European Union that the outbreaks of For Bulgaria, however, during this time, there is no problem with the disease. On 30 June this year, the first outbreak with proven disease was found in Haskovo region. From June 30th to mid-July 22nd districts in the country have ignited outbreaks of.......................................................................................... On 6 August 2014, we found that in practice, the whole country has already been invaded and has been invaded and has been invaded. Yes, if I have to be extremely precise with you, 22 areas have been covered and have had outbreaks of the disease. An extremely late reaction to the country! I personally have no explanation for why the situation was underestimated during the months of April, May, June, July. In this regard, my order was established at the beginning of August 2014 a coordination headquarters was established in relation to the disease, which included experts from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the State Fund of Agriculture and the representatives of associations from the cattle and sheep farming sector. In recent months, we have had five working meetings with representatives of the European Commission from both the head office of SANKO and the Agriculture Directorate, as well as with experts from other member states and competent authorities, mostly from neighbouring countries, regarding the situation with the disease. Bulgaria is committed to taking over the coordination of vaccination actions on the Balkan Peninsula. In the opinion of all European Commission vets, the only solution for dealing with the disease at this stage for next year is complete, total vaccination. In this regard, the next 2015 will be the vaccination of all cattle and sheep in the country for the purpose of stopping, ending the disease and limiting economic losses for animal owners. It is necessary to buy 1 million and 200,000 doses of vaccines for cattle and 3 million doses of vaccines for sheep against the disease. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has sent an official intention to the only licensed company on the European market that is producing a vaccine against the We are also having conversations with this company to deliver the vaccine in February 2015 and to carry out a complete vaccination starting from March to the end of April in stages, to all animals in the country. In the meantime, however, the State Fund........................ has allowed by 15 October 2014 a force major to die of............................................................................................................................ We have provided assistance within the range of 4 million. 650,000. lv. for feeding sheep-mothers and goats-mothers, which were provided to 5662 farmers. The compensation to the owners of forced-killed animals or dead by the disease shall be carried out according to the requirements of art. 144, para. 1 of the Act on Veterinary Practice and Art. 6, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for spending funds to cover the costs associated with the epizootic risks adopted by Decree No 181 of the Council of Ministers of 2006.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u253	Minister, time's up. I hope you'll have the opportunity under the conditions of the duvet to answer. Professor Bachvarova, do you have a reply?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u254	Thank you for your reply, but in practice you have not answered perhaps the most important question for livestock farmers: when will farmers be compensated for this disease? The commitment with deadlines, respectively a methodology by which they will be assessed. Why? Because in the media, it appears that you will pay compensation of BGN 2.36. per kilogram of live weight. Where did you get this price? Who gave you exactly this estimate, so the resulting final value for compensation is nearly twice as low as what actually costs the compensation itself? You didn't answer that question. In addition, there should still be a procedure in the State Fund. What will be required? What documentation, what information for you to be able to implement this policy? What financial resource do you think should be allocated for this compensation? From what I've seen in the draft budget bill, you're predicting $10 million. If the gross account is 20 thousand, which are the affected animals, it appears that the compensation should be 500 BGN and not 120-130 BGN. Something doesn't work in calculations, and most of all time is something that bothers absolutely everyone. The force majeure relating to the relief of conditions and payments under deminimise do not solve the issue of compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u255	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer this question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, I will continue my exhibition. The compensation for commodities shall be determined at an average market price by type of animal per kilogram of live weight for the relevant area determined by the National Statistical Institute for the month preceding the occurrence of the disease. In this case, these are the months of May, June, July, August, depending on when the outbreak occurred in the designated area. For compensation for dead animals from registered breeds of bovine, ovine and caprine animals, the information on average live weight shall be taken from the data of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming. The compensation shall be paid on the basis of an Act of Compensation for dead animals, destroyed raw materials and products of animal origin, feed and inventory resulting from the application of mandatory veterinary medicinal events in a model, as set out in Annex No 5 of the Ordinance, issued by the Director of the Regional Directorate for Food Safety. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the compensation will not be made through the State Fund..................................... but through the structures of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. By Decree No 274 of the Council of Ministers of 4 September this year 1 million were allocated. 889 thousand. lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the conduct of events to limit and eradicate outbreaks of bluetongue in the territory of the country. Of that, one million. 389 thousand. lv. are intended to pay compensation to owners of forced killed and dead animals. At this stage, however, they are extremely insufficient in relation to the scale of the disease. At present, we have about 26,800 dead sheep. All animal owners follow and will be compensated. At my order of November 10th of this year, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency launched a procedure for payment of compensation to owners by the order of their arrival at the Agency. At present, this 1 million. 389 thousand. lv. However, it will not be sufficient to compensate for all farmers who have suffered losses. Therefore, in this regard, I would like to appeal once again to the Members of the National Assembly for the extreme importance of updating the budget in the part of....................... especially for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency so that we can compensate all our farmers for what happened to them this year. Once again, a new programme for the supervision and control of the disease is prepared for 2015 which has been sent and approved by the European Commission. The programme, in addition to vaccination, includes clinical examinations of susceptible animals and serological examination of animals in case a new serotype of the disease occurs in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u257	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question, also to you, is addressed by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. It refers to the entry into force of Decision of the Supreme Administrative Court No 3235 of 3 June 2012. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, the reason for my question to you is the failure to comply until the date of the 2012 Decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. In relation to this decision, a letter was sent to the Director of the Southeast State Enterprise of October 2014, to the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food for the implementation of that decision. So far, however, there has been no development on the issue of the hunting area in the village of Planinovo and the Hunting Company, member of the Hunting-Ribar association Sakara. My question is: what measures will be taken to implement this decision eventually, because, as you know, Mr. Minister, in the quoted letter, Deputy Minister Kostov stops hunting in this area? The hunt is stopped until a solution is found. In the hunting season, once we have a ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, I say again, since 2012, what has stopped the implementation of this decision until now? Why are we put in front of this case so hunters can't hunt freely, but have to, with some ineligible, out of lawsuits, restrict the right of these people? There are executed procedures, there are decisions that are appealed to various institutions, but at the end of the 2012 Decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which, by the way, is final, it is not subject to further appeal, it is ordered that an order be put into effect which allows the hunters in the area, which I have quoted, be able to hunt. At some point and after your deputy's letter, it is unacceptable for me what happens to the State enterprise not to comply with the Minister's order, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Deputy Minister's order and to implement this decision. My question is: when will the bringing of the decision take place, and what measures have you possibly taken so far to move it faster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u259	Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u260	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as you pointed out very precisely, according to the provision of art. 297 of the Civil Procedure Code the decision entered into force is mandatory for the court, which has decreed it for all courts, offices and municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, by letter of 14 October 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has once again sent instructions to the South East State Enterprise of Sliven to take the necessary action according to their competence in implementing Decision No 3235 of 6 March 2012 to the Supreme Administrative Court. The decision confirmed Decision No 29 of 1 February 2011 of the Administrative Court of Yambol, which repealed as unlawful Order No 99 of 18 October 2010 of the Director of the State Hunting Farm In the order which we have sent to the enterprise, we also point out that until the judgment has been executed, hunting in the Hunting District of Planinovo is to be suspended. Within the next week, this decision, I believe, will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u261	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, do you have a line? Here you go, take a look at the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I understand next week I hope it will be fulfilled. Then perhaps we will have a new government and a new minister, but why has this decision not been implemented so far? Why has this decision been slow since 2012 and has not been implemented? No one can give a logical answer after you said yourself that this decision is final. It shall no longer be subject to any appeals or any more legal proceedings. It just has to be done. I am inconclusive, Mr. Minister, why, in response to your letter to the Director of the Southeastern Enterprise, with which you are stopping the hunt, he writes to you and in his reply misleads you by saying that the order which the State Security has established as legitimate has been revoked by the court. From which court? Why is he fooling you? What is happening in this country, Minister? A director of a state enterprise cannot mislead his minister by misleading him with false facts! And it's written in a letter, which I assume you have. This is the letter signed by Mr. Varbanov, who is still the director. So he's not only not doing it, he's misleading you into thinking there's a new court decision. After the Supreme Administrative Court, I am not a lawyer, but since it is written that the decision is not subject to appeal, I do not know who has the right to issue such a letter of false content and to mislead the Minister. Answer me: why has this not been fulfilled so far, and why do you not commit to obey the order? Even now, when you get back to your office, you can do it now. You have the verdict of the court. From now on, there is no obstacle to stop you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u263	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you have anything to add after further request? No. Of course, it's your right. We continue with a question made by Prof. Ivan Stankov to Minister Vasil Grudev. I am pleased to note that another Bulgarian professor is taking part in this meeting. I'm talking about the technology introduced by the office prime minister. Mr. Minister, the question to you concerns the payment of loans received over the years 2009-2011 to the State Fund for Animal Feeding. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Grudev, in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 farmers were granted loans to feed animals. Appropriate deadlines were set for the payment of these loans. Due to financial difficulties, farmers had to change these deadlines several times. Now comes the time when farmers must pay back again with interest, but again the financial problems are there. It's been a tough year, we all know. If you go to another payout, that means a lot of the farmers go bankrupt. My question is: is it possible to convert these credits with subsidies? And if that is not possible, is it possible to extend this period again in order to protect Bulgarian farmers from bankruptcy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u265	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stankov, during the period 2008-2010 as well as in 2012 farmers were granted short-term loans by the Fund for Agriculture to support animal feeding. In the period 2008-2010, the amount of loans granted amounted to 67 million. 122,000. In 2010 BGN and 2010 BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN BGN B and 2010 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible In 2012, in order to improve the collection of the debts of borrowers, it was decided that the reimbursement of the interest due on loans would be a condition for their deferral. The implementation of this decision resulted in additional revenue from interest paid out and an improvement in the revenue part of the 2012 Fund's 2012 Fund's accounts and the budget as a whole, as well as an improvement in the loan exposure of borrowers, a manifestation of financial and credit discipline. The capital's losses amount to more than 7 million. $100,000. BGN, and the recovery interest on loans is currently close to 8 million. lv. There is a possibility that the credit debt of farmers will not be extended due to the fact that a significant part of them have repeatedly benefited from loans during the period 2008-2010 and 2012. At the request of the industry, the loans granted are deferred annually after a decision of the Management Board of the State Fund. The deferral of the short-term loans granted by the Fund does not contain an element of State aid provided that the interest on the deferral is no lower than the reference rate for Bulgaria applicable at the date of signature of the cancellation anex. As regards the possibility of transforming loans received from farmers in 2008-2010 and 2012 into subsidies, it is absolutely impossible to automatically transform them. European Union State aid law lays down strict rules for granting public resources to the private sector, excluding any possibility of remission of loans already granted or their transformation into State aid. The European provisions require that any aid measure contains an element of encouragement and participation by the beneficiary of the funds. Any aid granted retroactively in respect of activities already carried out by the beneficiary cannot be regarded as containing the necessary element of incentive and is regarded as operating aid intended only to alleviate its financial burden. Such measures shall be incompatible with the common market and their application in any Member State. In addition, the application of a different approach in this case would put the correct and responsible borrowers in an unequal position to the non-performing livestock farmers. This would create tension among those who have been properly repaid and demotivated for a proper and responsible subsequent performance of contractual obligations on their part. In the light of the above, the notification of new State aid to support is the only option. In the event of the approval of this State aid, it is necessary to allow each farmer to apply for a level playing field, but must be provided for in cases where there is an outstanding obligation to the State Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I note that even if the amount of aid per animal corresponds to the unit rate of the number of animals received on the credit received, there will not be a complete deduction in this case. This will be due to the fact that there are borrowers who have received several credits, i.e. during all the years of granting. I inform you in relation to your specific question that, on 31 October 2014, in a total of 3346 loaned livestock farmers in the period 2008-2010 and 1119 in 2012, more than 85% of them have deferred their loans. The Commission therefore concludes that the restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article However, given the difficult economic situation of the keepers, as a result of both the heavy year and the complex situation in the country of the disease, the reduced buying-in prices of the milk, as well as the currently unpaid funds for national payments in the sector of Life Economy, by Decision of 31 October 2014, the Management Board of the Fund of Agriculture adopted a new write-off of the loans by 25 November 2015 at a reduction of the interest rate. The deadline for applying for suspension of loans is from 10 November 2014 to 22 December 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Stankov, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u268	It won't be a line, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u269	Okay, use your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u270	Of the answers Minister Grudev gave, I think this is still a solution because, I repeat, the condition of Bulgarian livestock farming is extremely critical. All of us in this House must have this information, because the number of animals, the breed composition, the structure of livestock in general is below the critical minimum. So I would recommend that you inform the Minister of the successor in detail and together with you that we continue to work on these issues, because we need to help our Bulgarian livestock farming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u271	That's asking. There was an answer. Two questions follow, and then a attitude. Come in for consideration, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u272	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Professor. Stankov, you have the full support of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the preparation of a long-term support strategy for the business sector, given that we do not need to tell each other the extremely severe and dramatic state in which it is located. The suspension of the loans for another year and the reduction of the interest rate to the level of the permitted so that it does not pass into the hypothesis of State aid, I am absolutely aware that it is a small breath of air that would not solve the problems of the sector. Separately over the past month, additional assistance was granted specifically to sheep farmers to cover at least to some extent the damage suffered by them related to the language of the sheep. As of next week we will also start paying compensation for lost animals to all farmers. I hope that, as Members of Parliament, you will also support the budget update in the part of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, these subsidies were made as a commitment by the previous government in December last year. Moreover, there were signed declarations with all farmers, along with the Ministry of Finance in December last year, but, unfortunately, these funds were then not put into the budget of the The total amount of funds that the previous government made as a commitment, as a state policy in the agricultural sector, amounted to 369 million. lv. Unfortunately, the funds invested in the support budget were 100 million less. The farmers were the most victims of it. Why? Because they're in line for payment. For them, under the European Regulation, the subsidy can be paid after 16 October. On 16 October, as I repeatedly alarmed, unfortunately, money in the budget of the Fund for the payment of these subsidies was not available and was not put at stake. Once again, I sincerely hope that you will support the update of the budget in particular in the part of....................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u273	Thank you, Minister Grudev. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have six minutes of time, which was realized by the declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. We have two questions on the program and I suggest we listen to both, even though we are going to delay the time a little, as Minister Zhekova expects. There is another question for Mr. Grudev from the National Representative Rumen Hristov concerning the failure of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop the issue, and then we will give Mr. Dzhevdet Chakarov the opportunity to ask his question to Minister Zhekova, even though we will delay the time by a few minutes. We're listening, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u274	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The rural development programme is perhaps the only one supporting the industry. It was very eagerly waiting for farmers, was launched by the former Deputy Minister of Agriculture Yavor Gechev that it will start in the months of April-May 2014. However, after the cold shower we received from the European Union, I doubt that it will start in the months of April-May 2015. The guilt will be clarified perhaps soon, but this is really a failure for Bulgarian agriculture from the point of view that the period during which this programme should be implemented is shrinking, compressing. Three and a half years remain for the implementation of the program, possibly three years at best. Not to mention the lost benefits, not to mention that during this period we will not be able to build new competitive farms not only in agriculture, not only in the food industry, but also to help rural regions with well-being. In this regard, I ask: what actions have been taken by you, Minister, to remove these 426 remarks from Brussels? Are they detachable, or are we gonna have to do a new program? Last but not least, have you identified the officials who are responsible for this, and what action have you taken against them? Guilty! This is not only the senior management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the face of the Minister and Deputy Minister, but also all officials who are still standing in their warm places and who should receive their punishment for not being able to launch this extremely important programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u275	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For an answer, Minister Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u276	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, I cannot disagree with much of your exhibition and I can practically summarize it in the following way. Unfortunately, the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 is starting to become a Rural Development Programme in mid-2015-2020, which, however, also involves budgetary problems in itself. You know that for each year of the seven-year period, we have a certain budget which, of course, must be paid in accordance with the N+2 rule of the Rural Development Programme, that is, we are already running after the budget train, which we had to absorb for this year and for the next year. I do not know how the rural development programme is promised to start in April or May this year, given that the first version of the Programme has been sent to the Commission in mid-July this year. At least I don't know how anyone can say from this tribune that April would launch the Programme, given that it is not yet shown anywhere in the European Commission. In July, the program was sent. You know, we have received very serious comments from the European Commission. I have repeatedly said that if I should speak to you as an expert on the Rural Development Programme, it might be better for us to write a new Programme. However, as Minister of Agriculture this is definitely not admissible, as it will doom the start of the entire Programme for further delay. Appropriate and responsible state-owned behaviour requires us to make this programme, with all its shortcomings, as presented to the European Commission, so as to make it meet the formal and informal requirements of the European Commission and to work an hour rather, because it is money for business, money for our rural municipalities. We do not have any time or opportunity, nor does business currently need further delays in the Programme. Currently, the teams of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are working to remove the numerous comments from the Commission. As Minister of Agriculture, I held several meetings with EU Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Cioloş, the first of which was structured precisely on the Rural Development Programme and how to make sure that we work on removing these comments and comments before we have received them officially. I would like to assure you that before Bulgaria officially received these comments a few weeks ago, the current team of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has already removed many of them in an operational dialogue with the European Commission. We have entered into a rather good expert operational dialogue with the Commission services so that much of the notes that have arrived at us have already been removed. However, if we have to talk absolutely specifically, December is perhaps the earliest period in which we could present the final version of the Rural Development Programme with all the comments removed and provide it for the approval of the European Commission. In this context, we are working actively and in an absolutely open dialogue with industry organisations on the preparation of the regulatory base, which is the next necessary step in order to open and launch specific receptions under the Rural Development Programme. I hope that, at the beginning of next year, in extremely tight and ongoing operational work with the services of the European Commission, we can really open the Rural Development Programme. I will not go into chronology and tell you who is responsible for allowing these extremely number of comments from the Commission. I'll just tell you that the first version of the program was sent in mid-July this year. You know who cooked the program. Once again, I say to you that state-owned behaviour is that we should do our best to meet the conditions of the Commission and make it work as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u277	Thank you to Minister Grudev. The line, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u278	Thank you, Madam President. I'm satisfied with the answer. I'm glad you guys got to work in time. It is clear to all who are engaged in agriculture or close to this industry that it was imported too late. The question is why you promised before. There were some elections that passed last year and in this direction there were many promises. Rely on the MPs who have an attitude towards the...................... for full support. It is true that the office minister's term of office is over, but if there is no punishment for the idleness that lies there, we will probably have similar problems in the future with the absorption of funds from the European Union. As a Member of the National Assembly, I will very closely monitor how the implementation of the obligations that individual employees have in the Fund and in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u279	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Let's thank Mr. Grudev for his involvement in Parliamentary control. The last question for today is to Mrs. Svetlana Zhekova, Minister of Service for Environment and Water, from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the award by the Environmental Management Company of the Municipality of Parvomay for the project for additional water supply of the village of Bukovo. We're listening, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Zhekova, I am addressing you in connection with the search for a solution for water supply in the village of Bukovo, Municipality of Parvomay in Plovdiv. For tens of years the village of Bukovo is almost year-round on a water regime, and the summer is much heavier because the water for use at the moment from the village from the water source is extremely insufficient for those living there. In addition, there are actively developed agriculture and livestock, but mostly livestock, so that the needs of the people living there are by no means satisfied. The municipality of Parvomay, like most municipalities in the country, does not have an independent financial opportunity to solve this problem and in view of that it has addressed the Environmental Protection Management Organisation (EIA) to the Ministry of Environment and Financial Aid Waters has presented to it a Project for additional water supply of the village. By letter dated 26 August this year, the Mayor of the Municipality of Parvomay was informed by the PPOOS that at a meeting of the Management Board of the enterprise on 1 August this year the funds needed for the implementation of that project were decided. In this regard, my questions to you are: Is there an opinion of the competent directorate of the Ministry of Environment and Water and is the signing of the contract between the municipality of Parvomay and the POSO for the grant of the grant for the implementation of the project for additional water supply of the village of Bukovo, the municipality of Parvomay? If there is still no opinion from the competent directorate at the Ministry of Environment and Water, what are the reasons for this? I hope you present the whole situation so that there is a positive solution to this case, because this project is being prepared by the municipality for more than 7-8 years. It's final, it's complete, it's presented to the PUDO. I hope for a positive response so that this serious problem will be resolved in this populated area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. For an answer, Minister Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, thank you for the question that needs clarification and clarification regarding the project for additional water supply of the village of Bukovo submitted by the municipality of Parvomay. Indeed, the problem has been assessed by the Management Board of the Environmental Management Organisation and that is why the Governing Council on 1 August decided, in principle, that the project should be supported by the corresponding funding of 1 million. 573 thousand. lv. In answer to your question whether a contract is being prepared with the municipality, the answer is: Yes, but under condition that an opinion be obtained from the competent Water Management Directorate at the Ministry of Water. This opinion has not yet been received since the letter of 26 August to the municipality of Parvomay, as you mentioned, requested specific documents to be provided in order to complete the proposal for the project and to provide these documents to the competent Water Management Directorate in order to be able to issue an opinion from it and proceed from there to the signing of a contract with the municipality. The main problem of the project is the quality of water from the new water source that is available. Laboratory studies show high, significantly above the permissible content of manganese and iron, and the project does not provide for a treatment facility. For this reason, the Management Board of the PUPOS took the decision on 1 August to finance the project under the condition that the opinion of the competent Water Management Directorate should be subsequently received. In the letter of 26 August, the Municipality of Parvomay was very detailed and detailed as to what documents were necessary to complete the financing application in order to be able to proceed to the next step, namely to take an opinion of the responsible directorate and subsequently sign the contract. No reply has been received at present from the Municipality of Parvomay. The experts of the PPOA are fully at their disposal, as noted in the letter to the municipality, for assistance in preparing the documentation, but without receiving this documentation, the PPOOS cannot actually commit itself to the subsequent conclusion of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u283	Thank you. The line, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u284	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for this answer, Minister Zhekova. It is apparent that the municipality must implement the necessary documentation.. co-ordination procedures. As far as I am aware, they are underway and I hope that they will be presented in due time at the Environmental Action Management Organisation and the Directorate responsible for ruling so that this case can be resolved positively. I know there's a higher manganese content in this area. I remember, as a former Minister of Environment and Water, that we decided and built, again with the assistance of the undertaking, in short terms, for the purification of manganese in the municipality of Harmanli, a rather serious investment. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works took part there as the principal of the water supply. Here, too, should be approached in the same way. We also have information that such a component is provided for in the project "Cleaning of the drinking water from manganese and iron." Naturally, they must meet the standards. We have information that the competent authorities at regional level, with a view to not risking the health of the people who live there and will use this drinking water, is provided and they have given a positive sanction. It remains for the municipality to move them so that they reach the competent authority, there is a positive solution. I thank you and remain optimistic. We will monitor this process so that there is a positive solution to this, because there are over 500 people living in this village. Unlike other villages that are depopulated, there are many young people here, many young people who work. There is a highly developed livestock and it enters the context of our vision for leveling the standards of the regions to have a normal quality and standard of living in all settlements, including small ones, so these approaches must be the same throughout our country, both in Northwestern Bulgaria and in these small settlements where there should be normal living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-06.u285	Would you like to use the back? No. With this, the questions provided for answers in today's parliamentary control are exhausted. Tomorrow, the plenary session will begin at 9.00 with the expected three items on the agenda to be tabled: 1. The Prime Minister's election. 2. Structure of the Council of Ministers. 3. Composition of the Council of Ministers. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
