ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u1	I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I remind you that a special meeting has been called by purpose at the Forty-third National Assembly today, which will take place in the following TODAY'S ARRANGEMENT: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. Importer "The Council of Ministers." Ms. Karayancheva, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Given that today's topic is very important for the Bulgarian citizens, I propose that today's National Assembly meeting be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u3	Is there a reverse opinion? No. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 192 MPs: 186, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the National Television cameras and the National Radio microphones. Dear colleagues, I am very excited to announce that the balcony today is attended by Chrisia, Hassan and Ibrahim young Bulgarian talents, who won second place at the Children's Eurovision 2014. Let's welcome them. [[(Everyone's up. Long applause. People's representative Stefan Danailov: Bravo! Bravo!]] Dear children, we thank you for having done something with one performance that we politicians find difficult to achieve... you have made the Bulgarians feel happier and more united. Thank you for that! We wish you to be healthy and happy if you can have a happy childhood with your activities. We support you, your leaders, the people who found you! Good luck! We wish you many new successes! [[Applause.]] Moving on to point one of the program for today: CHAPTER 1 1 - TOTAL With the report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us. [[Noise and lines.]] You didn't listen to me at first, colleagues! The agenda was adopted by a deliberate decision in our Friday plenary session, I merely recalled it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u4	Thank you, Madam President. First let me do a procedure. Please allow the hall: Mrs. Rumyana Todorova, Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mr. Dincho Genev, Deputy Governor of the Casata, and Mrs. Ganka Avramova, Director of the Directorate for Health Insurance in the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u5	I ask the honourable Members to vote on the proposal made by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Vote 190 MPs: 189, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014, No 402-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014. At a meeting held on 13 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, Mr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Mrs. Rumyana Todorova, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mr. Dincho Genev, Deputy Governor of Casata, Ganka Avramova, Director of the Directorate of Budget and Financial parameters. The bill was presented by Minister Moskov, who said that it will provide an additional amount of 100,000 thousand. lv. for health insurance payments to be paid in 2014 medical assistance under art. 45 of the Health Insurance Act granted to health insured persons. This will ensure financial stability for the system and security to ensure the treatment of patients and the operation of medical aid contractors. The expenditure part of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014 will be changed, with a negative balance of EUR 100 million. lv. The funds will be redistributed as follows: 1. for health insurance payments for medicinal products for home treatment and diet food for special medical purposes lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for health insurance payments for medical devices applied in hospital medical care lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for drug therapy in malignancies 15 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for sickness insurance payments for hospital medical care lv. The funds will be covered by the availability at the beginning of 2014 of the NHIF's budget account of 100 million. 248 thousand. lv. Additional measures related to the control mechanisms of the National Health Insurance Fund and measures to limit the costs of medicinal products will be taken to compensate the excess and financial stability of the system. The change is required due to the following circumstances: The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014 provides for the following parameters of the independent budget: 3 billion. 48 million. $110,000. lv. Revenues and transfers; 3 billion 48 million. $110,000. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission 462,000. BGN, 279 516 thousand. lv. supposed and urgent expenses reserve. The budget is set with a balanced balance. The implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014 shows an emerging shortage of funds by types of health insurance payments as follows: 1. The total estimated lack of funds as of 31 December 2014 for the payment of pharmacies for medicinal products provided for home treatment and dietary foods for special medical purposes and medical devices intended for diseases included in the list of regulations under art. 45, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 456 thousand. lv. The opportunities of the NHIF to compensate for some of this deficiency are: - the funds available from other health insurance payments (as defined in § 8 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the amount of 16 620 thousand). lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - re-execution of health insurance income under art. 1, para. 1 row 1 and row 3 which, pursuant to § 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, is allocated to health insurance payments in a row determined by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. According to official estimates of the National Revenue Agency, the expected re-execution of health insurance revenues on an annual basis is 55 274 thousand. lv. Following the exhaustion of the possibilities for the implementation of intra-compensated changes to the budget of the NHIF in the part of the expenditure, the expected shortage of funds for the payment of hospital aid contractors in 2014 amounts to a total of 90 872 thousand. lv. This represents about 30 percent of the value of the reported activity by hospital care contractors in October and November 2014, calculated on the basis of the total monthly average of 154 172 thousand. lv. of the activities of hospital care performers for the period January 2014 In applying these possibilities of the Law, the estimated total amount of funding shortages for health insurance payments as of 31 December 2014 under the NHIF budget amounted to around 100 000 thousand. lv. Dr. Rumyana Todorova also expressed her support for the bill, expressing her opinion that the proposed changes will ensure that all costs in the healthcare system are covered by the end of the year. There was an extensive discussion on the measures that would limit future deficits in the system, obstacles to the implementation of such measures, the increase of hospitals, the revision of the medical packages that the NHIF covers, the differences between recorded and performed healthcare services and others. In conclusion, the Chairman of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance Menda Stoyanova expressed his opinion and recommendation to the Ministry of Health and the management of the NHIF to prepare a package of measures - legislative changes concerning control of the activity and quality of services and ensuring them within the framework of Budget 2015 and in the future. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which received the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014, No 402-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Please sign up for speeches by the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u8	On behalf of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u9	On behalf of the importer? [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014 will be something that our Forty-third National Assembly will undoubtedly approve, but it seems to me that this should be the beginning of the discussion of the necessary changes, reforms, we can also say them in the health insurance model. We have heard from the report of the President of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance Menda Stoyanova that there have been debates on the measures and a number of recommendations related to legislative changes in order to change things in this area. Of course, perhaps these debates have been very helpful. I would like to say some of our considerations, as we have seen that over the last few years, if we start from the almost distant 1998 when the costs of healthcare were 810 million. BGN and in 2013 they are already 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes This shows that gross domestic product has been increasing, and although the percentage we have given for healthcare has only increased by 1% from 3.5% to 4.5%, the state still cares for people and seeks to give them access to quality healthcare. Only this year, if I'm not mistaken, we'll pour extra, so to speak, 300 million. lv. in the National Health Insurance Fund. And what does it turn out to be? That both patients and doctors and others are very dissatisfied with health care, hospitals are constantly increasing their overdue duties and so on. Perhaps the only small plus that is visible and it is not bad that it is visible is that there is one, albeit a slightly pronounced tendency, to increase the average life expectancy of all of us, which is undoubtedly a positive element. However, in the end, the country's demographic problems, which affect the economic, health, social and educational system of society, are all challenges that are ahead of us, and we can only note our concern in the hope that those who are mostly called on to deal with this in both the Ministry and in the National Health Insurance Fund are aware of and will offer legislative changes to help with the necessary reforms. It seems that the state of the hospital system is the most worried about the very uneven distribution of the structures of the national medical and health system, hence the inequality of our fellow citizens in terms of access to quality medical care. For example, in our Northwestern region there are very few hospitals that make people necessarily seek Sofia as the first, probably last instance in many cases. The very uneven distribution of doctors with specialty in the country, the lack of clinical pathologists, microbiologists, anesthesiologists leads to large costs, as it is obvious that with no indicative microbiologists, antibiotics will not be made, antibiotics with strong action will be appointed in order to immediately cause the necessary changes to recovery, which is not always correct. The role of general practitioners as an effective guide to moving patients into the health care system also seems to be quite underestimated, as far as some places there are, or at least in our more backward ends. Unfortunately, that's Northwestern. The deteriorated personnel insurance, especially in emergency medical care, the inappropriate methodology for pricing hospital activities and for paying these clinical pathways, has long been said to change, but for now they remain. The absence of an adequate funding system and the investment costs of hospitals also leads to this increasing debt of the hospital sector. If I'm wrong, my colleagues who are more concerned with this problem will correct me. The absence of a system for adequate financing of the investment costs of hospitals, combined with the lack of control by both the National Health Insurance Fund and the principal, especially where medical institutions with predominantly state participation are concerned, causes many hospital managers to spend their paid by the National Health Insurance Fund instead of the inherent medical activities, for various capital expenditures. It's like a family that has limited means of food doesn't have to pay for the neighborhood store, so they can buy a hot tub or something like that. In this sense, we cannot be surprised that we have delays especially in large hospitals. It is true that some of the governors or superiors have been making efforts, especially lately, to reduce their duties. So management skills are very important, too. By supporting the update of the budget of the NHIF for 2014 and the adoption of the Fund's 2015 budget, we would like to see a more complex answer to these and other issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u11	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? I won't. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Dr. Ademov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Health Insurance Fund, Dear Ministers, Dear Representatives of the National Health Insurance Fund! I'd like to start with what the situation is today. To date 2014, you are representatives of a third government, separately in 2014, we are discussing three budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund. We are about to discuss another fourth budget for this year of the National Health Insurance Fund. This means that, in times of political crisis, political instability, we cannot expect financial stability in the healthcare system and it is not by chance shaken by problems, including financial problems. Dear Ministers, at the end of each year, we are facing the same situation, whether to update the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is one approach or to transfer expenditure already incurred for next year. I ask you very much next year, at the end of the calendar year, do not put us ahead of this impossible choice. There is no way not to update the budget, as the expenditure has already been incurred, there is no way to transfer expenditure already incurred for next year. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we welcome the measures and concept that the Minister of Health announced or rather promised to announce by the end of November. However, a very important question arises here. The Minister of Finance said that he has ordered all budgetary organisations to draft a budget for the next year on the basis of the legislation in force, which means that under the current legislation, Mr. Minister of Health, you have no way of realizing the ideas and concept that we talked about in the Budget Committee. I say this for a reason because you announced that by the end of the budget procedure for next year or rather along with the budget of the Casa for next year and with the draft budget of the state for next year you will submit these measures or this package of measures. I am now telling you that it will not work in 2015, and you have announced that 2015 is a transformation year, if I am not mistaken in the term, about Bulgarian healthcare. I want to hear the answer to that question. Next, I would like to try to make a feature in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund during the years of its existence. In 2000, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund was 900 million, in 2014 this budget is now nearly 3 billion. In 2000, hospitalized or admitted for hospital treatment were about one million Bulgarian citizens insured, in 2014 those admitted to hospital care facilities are expected to be about two million. This means that the money that is being poured into this system is being used on purpose inefficiently. Therefore, it is extremely important to talk about how to use this money effectively, which the Bulgarian budget and the Bulgarian insured citizens provide for this system. It is very important to note that the health insurance system in Bulgaria and not only in Bulgaria is a solidarity system, ladies and gentlemen. It is based on the trust of Bulgarian citizens, on the trust of the insured persons. If there is no confidence in this system, if in any way conditions are created for the collapse of solidarity as there have been in recent years, it means that distrust dominates. My request is that we do our best to maintain the solidarity principle, because it is very important. Next, I would like to say a few words about the assessment of revenue in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014. Dear colleagues from GERB, you, who were opposition at the end of 2013, when we adopted the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014, you said, Mr. Goranov, then you were a member of parliament, that the revenues in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund were increased. But it turned out to be something completely different. By the end of the nine months, the overrun of those called by you is 55 million, and the expected overrun by the end of the year, according to information from the National Revenue Agency 70 million. I can also give you information about the state social security budget. There, revenues were increased by nearly 200 million compared to 2013. The expected implementation of the DEA budget with regard to the income from insurance contributions at the end of the year according to the information of the NRA and the National Insurance Institute is 38 million. BGN, Dear Minister Goranov. I am saying this for a reason because I just learned the information that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov promised with you 40 BGN. of pensioners with the amount of pensions up to BGN 286 Congratulations on this, because what you are doing is a consistent policy, a continuation of the policy that our government has conducted during the mandate of our government. I'd like to say a few more words. What is the main conclusion? In the insurance system, ladies and gentlemen, there is a surplus of revenue and this is not a coincidence I am opening a clamp, unlike tax passes. In the insurance system, the insured citizens rely on specific rights, in the case of health insurance, they rely on health insurance rights, unlike the taxes there things are completely different. There will always be revenue implementation in this system, because the expectations of this system are that everyone gets specific rights. The main conclusion is that the allocated income from the insurance contributions I am saying this to the President of the Temporary Budget Commission is overrun, and there are no hollow revenues, respectively no increased costs, except for the 100 million we are predicting now. Dear Minister of Health, you said perfectly correctly that in the 2015 budget you want to bet those numbers that correspond to the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014. However, this implementation of the budget means you from somewhere to find an additional 225, plus 100 You have to tell me where 325 million will come from by raising insurance contributions, by raising income, by reducing costs? We must have information in the National Assembly where this money will come from, because this is extremely important in the forthcoming discussion. I would also like to say a few more words about the structure of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Dear colleagues, in all these years we have argued that this pyramid of structure of the Casa budget should be reversed. Currently, hospital aid money is 1 billion. lv.; the hospital's money is somewhere around 600 million. Aren't we saying that if there's more money for prevention, if there's more money for hospital care, those in hospital care will have to be reduced, they'll have to be reduced? In the modern achievements of technology, even these technologies, which have been introduced in Bulgaria, the possibilities for hospital assistance are much greater. So there must be some change in this structure that I've been insisting on for more than 10 years from this tribune. Unfortunately, we can't impose all this. Next, I would also like to say a few words about the package of measures that you are proposing perfectly correct, Minister Moskov. First of all, tell me how you will overcome the contradictions between the Health Insurance Act, where it is said that the Health Insurance Fund pays for a done, reported and verified medical activity, on the one hand, and what is said in the Public Finance Act that budgetary organisations cannot assume obligations that are not in the expenditure part of the budget? What are you going to do about banning the Cashier from paying? They've lost enough lawsuits already. You're gonna tell them to take over, contrary to the Public Finance Act, unsecured liabilities? The choice is yours. For me, this choice is extremely difficult. This choice was imposed on you by the former Minister of Finance. He adopted these texts in the Public Finance Act. Of course, they have a reflection on other problems, but things can't work out here. It's nonsense to forbid the Cashier from paying for medical work. This is her main obligation under the Health Insurance Act. So, honourable Members, we need to think very seriously about this. It's a change of standards. Of course, they were reduced, and here you can react perfectly calmly and propose measures. Revealing new hospitals. But the problem is not that new hospitals are being revealed at all, the problem is that in all these years, while there is the Health Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Health Act, we have not been able to introduce a regulation to impose the health card where a hospital is needed to be revealed. Can anyone say whether 80 hospitals in Sofia are necessary, provided there are regions in which there are none or only one? These are the important questions to be answered, ladies and gentlemen, and they are not easy at all. Next, Dear Mr. Goranov, you have requested that, as far as I know, this is your statement of the budgetary organisations to draw up the budget. I repeat this because it is very important on the basis of the legislation in force. How will these things happen that you propose, Mr. Minister? What is the correct position? One or the other? I'm waiting for the answer to these questions. Next, ladies and gentlemen, and that concludes, this system is solidarity. In the Constitution of Bulgaria it is said that the budget of the sector is determined by the solidarity contributions of the state, employers and insured persons. If we are able to maintain this solidarity, if we are able to do everything we can to support this sector from the point of view of control, from the point of view of financing, that means that we have done our job. However, I would like to draw attention to something that, in my view, is very important about the fact that, in all these years of the so-called transition, many governments, including governments in which we have participated in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have tried to reform the sector............................................................................. I say it from experience: no one has succeeded on their own, and there is no way they can succeed in this sector. Unpopular measures are needed here. That is why we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have stated that such policies require out-of-party consent. Only one party, whoever she is, can't handle this problem. That is why my request is: even though you do not want our support, listen to some of our arguments! I hope you make it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u13	- What's the line? I won't. For an answer, the word wants Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, I will try to be as brief as possible, all the more so that I have rarely had any arguments with Dr. Ademov specifically about where the system should go. On the specific issues that you have raised, and then I will say a little more general things. The majority behind the government has the commitment that the funding levels of the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry for next year will not be below the funding levels of the updated levels for this year. As far as we are currently having a conversation about the 2014 update, and your main question, and it is logical, is aimed at the future, we have no dispute in this House that everything as regards the sector.......................... and the proposed updates are reasonable and meaningful and must happen. I would argue with each and every one of you because the other means failure to perform basic functions, or in the case of the Casata, or in the case of the Ministry of Health. These functions are policies that are approved by all here MPs. There was no objection, so it would be surprising to me if there were contradictions in this relationship. The purpose of the package of regulatory measures that the Minister of Health, respectively the government will bring to Parliament together with the draft budget for 2015, is not to seek a legal basis for increasing these costs, but to find the clear legal basis on which we start the road, and therefore I say that 2015 is a transformational one. We begin the way in which the healthcare system and its funding goes from paying a service to paying for a result. This is not a path that can be walked in 1 year, 6 months or 2 months. The desire of the majority is this time to begin, to have clear cornerstones and to walk through time, which is why my personal position is linked to the implementation of these goals in time. I ask really at the moment that I do not respond to some of the specific things for 2015, to leave it for the 2015 debate, but what I am going to say is: at the end of November, early December, when the procedures in the Committees on Viewing the Budget, the government, respectively, the Minister of Health in my person, I kind of started talking to a third person, which is not good, will enter with the following package: The report on the health of the nation in the first place, which is the duty of the Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u15	The deadline is until October.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u16	Yeah. The nation's health report. In fact, this is a fundamental document to which we have somehow not paid enough attention so far. From this report and from the conclusions in it the other things in this whole package follow. Firstly, a concept of reforms throughout the entire healthcare system based on the conclusions of this report and with clear objectives of changing the bad health data of the nation in this report. That is, the whole concept of what we need to change, how we need to change the things you say, the number of hospitals, the number of doctors so on, the method of financing medicines, must be the result of the clear objectives we set ourselves, as a result of the clarity that we have a bad picture related to the health indicators of the nation. Then a specific package of measures, some of which, with the possibility of developing another 2015, for which, in the ministry's team and within the majority, we are talking at the moment, I, as an importer, will seek the assistance and support of each of the parliamentary groups, not just the majority. If you think these are reasonable measures, please support them. If my arguments and my colleagues' arguments are not enough... [[Heckling]] This package of measures is aimed at this and I have always kept the update of the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget project to be the product of a common philosophy of a majority, which knows where it is going and knows what the steps are. The objectives of this package of measures will be a clear financial forecasting of the sector, i.e. the inability for me or any other colleague of mine, because the queue is moving fast, to face you in the middle or at the end of next year and to say that there is another 100, 200, 300 million to update. We will do so and I hope that the cabinet's arguments will be convincing enough to be able to receive full support. That's it for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u17	Thank you, Minister Moskov. The parliamentary time for the individual parliamentary groups is as follows: GERB This time, at the request of representatives of the parliamentary groups, may be extended by up to one third according to art. 54, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Any other MPs? Mr. Glauchev informed me that Mr. Bayraktarov has issued a statement request. We're listening, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, Ministers! Today we have to give an answer to the Bulgarian people why should we once again vote on an update of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and in general the health system; why should we again, as the previous speakers have expressed, pour one hundred million? But this 100 million is not our money, this money is the money of the people, not only do we have to give an answer, but we have to take responsibility. The first question to be understood by the Bulgarian people is that in a series of years, in a series of national meetings, in a series of governments there was no control over the spending of these public funds. Moreover, the manager of the Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Todorova at a meeting of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance not only said she had no control, but she failed to explain to the MPs why this control was lacking, why she, as the manager of this institution, did not raise the issue of lack of control and the draining of funds. It's very easy for Mr. Ademov to come out today and talk to me about a map of the medical facilities. Why didn't you make this card in one year and three months for the hospitals, I ask?! Secondly, why do you keep quiet about shutting down a number of hospitals in small municipalities so that some new 80 or 90 hospitals in the big city can bloom? Here we have to say that not only do such hospitals bloom, but they are created with strictly defined hospital activities, for which doctors know that these are profitable activities. In other words, some commercial enterprises are being set up, which are clearly going to drain funds from the Health Insurance Fund and serve a certain group of people, create new millionaires with the public funds of the people. These issues should be said precisely and clearly, because when they are said precisely and clearly, the new Minister of Health will have the opportunity to receive support for health reform, not to speak in political languages that are incomprehensible to people. Now that's the simple truth. I would like to hear back from the manager of the Health Insurance Fund: why, my lady manager, have you not referred to the relevant authorities for lack of control? Why is money being drained in different health pathways and missing this control? How many people have been given to the D.A., how many people will bear responsibility for draining the state's people's money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Madame Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, would you like to answer? Yeah. Mrs. Rumyana Todorova, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to explain to the Members of the National Assembly that the Casa is implementing the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria and we are trying to comply with this legislation as much as possible. The register can't carry out any more control than what's written to it, we're not an investigation. The register has repeatedly informed you, I cannot tell you at the moment the exact number, but we have enough signals to the prosecution, where our control bodies within their powers have signalled irregularities. I would like to remind you that the other day I also said in the Budget Committee that from suspended payments in 2010, the Cashier has lost almost all cases that have been finalised at the moment, which is worth several million levs, however, along with interest rates. So it is not so easy to stop payment, especially for activity in such a sensitive area as healthcare. After all, the Cashier pays for the health of all those insured who regularly pay their contributions. As for whether the Cashier has signalled the lack of control, if you look from October 2013, until the measures recorded in the Cashier's Budget Act for 2014, you will see how many times the Cashier has put forward proposals. In the measures it is written:..Removements to increase the control activity of the Cashier................................................................................................ In 2009, a Medical Audit Agency was established to be responsible for the quality of Bulgarian healthcare. At that time, the doctors called this agency the "SANS service provider" it is as much a SANS as I am a police officer. An institution that lacks experts cannot do any kind of control. Once again, the Cashier has fulfilled the powers vested in her by law. A lot of other things have to be done before you get to the point of payment, and before you get to the point of duty. Everything that Dr. Ademov and Minister Moskov talked about, if it does not happen, the Cassata will continue to pay and the court will not be on her side if she decides to stop payments. The activity has been carried out and the patient has been rescued is the answer of the court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Do you have any lines for the speech of the MP Mr. Bajraktarov? I can't see. What procedure? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] You can't make your own line. [[Noise and lines.]] Any other speeches? Mr. Abu Melih of GERB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Guests, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I suppose 90% of the MPs will vote for the National Health Insurance Fund budget because there is no other way out. Not because the bills are bad or the treatment is expensive, or hospitalizations are increased, we have no real alternative to the National Health Insurance Fund. This is the only entrance to the health system of Bulgarian citizens, where they can use their insurance and be treated. Here the question to the Minister of Health is: is this problem that health costs us a lot, is it really a problem, or is this the new reality? Good health is already worth a lot of money not only in Bulgaria, but in the whole world it is. Comfortable life up to 80 and 90 years is an expensive pleasure. In order for this to happen and the Bulgarians to receive this type of treatment and healthcare, we need not to reform our health care, in the sense of changing the algorithm of treating pneumonia, for example, and we need financial reform in this sector. We need financial reform on how to distribute our money from our contributions so that they can reach and stay, and have a reserve, and basically get the final result. When I need a doctor, go, have someone to pay my bill, or when I need a hospital to go, have someone to pay my bill. The National Assembly can analyse exactly what the problem is and what decisions to make, of course, this is the right of every Member of the National Assembly, but in principle I am talking about myself, is it not better not for me to give brains, because my activity was generally different? I have appeared in elections to end up here at one of the banks in the National Assembly. Is it not better to address the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, to make a group of MPs from all parliamentary groups, to send them to Europe, to see the three best health systems working and I guarantee you that in two weeks they will come back and tell you what the solution really is. Because there is a solution in Europe that does not cost much money, but it is a reorganization of finance. Just reorganizing the finances! You need to see this, you need to get acquainted with it and you will see that health reform will become very easy because many people's concerns that any reform leads to further problems will be dropped completely. We'll be able to draw on other people's experience. The foreign experience, I repeat, which has been wrong several times, at their expense they have made a mistake, corrected their mistakes and today in 2014, for example, in the Netherlands they have the best health care in Europe. Why? Is it because it's 20%? It's not 20%. It's 8.6. Why? Because they've reorganized their finances. They did it! You just have to go see not just the Netherlands, but other countries. For these MPs to come, there should even be experts from the Ministry of Health and finally say: "Lord, we have travelled 3-4 countries, here is the solution. Enough with the decisions we make from here. Every year there is only talk about this topic and nothing else happens except the Health Insurance Fund to remain the only entrance to Bulgarian healthcare. The money will never get there because the system, it is true that it is solidarity, and it must be solidarity, but I ask as a representative of the people, should it be 100% solidarity? Hundred percent! Couldn't it be 70% and the other 30% be buffered so that each one of them, according to his contribution to the system, gets something better or gets in faster? As an argument to my fairy tale, I say: why is the pension system not solidarity then? Why is there 110 leva? pensions and there are 700 leva. pensions? Well, give her the pension system to make her 100% solidarity. And if we get to the paychecks to make them 100% solidarity, we solve all our problems. The solidarity of 100% is no longer the myth that solves everything. The human element I work more and import more money, I want to use this work for my own benefit. If I'm busy, I work 12 hours a day, is there a system in Bulgaria that will offer me not to wait three hours at my jeeps? Is there? If there is one, I'll look for it right away, and I'll turn to it, so I don't waste any of my hours because I make money. All these elements are financial. I repeat, there are enough financial literate people in the National Assembly as well. Therefore, if the National Assembly is organised and a delegation is sent in two weeks, I guarantee you will return with a decision from Europe, because the period of testing has already passed, with ready solutions. The Minister of Health will then have a much lighter task. Instead of persuading you in every step he will take, he will say: "Look! In short, let's not say that the truth is only in this room. The truth is somewhere else, and we have to face it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Abu Melih, in the 21st century era and high technology, we do not need to send MPs to spend extra money somewhere in Europe. Here half the MPs hold in their hands electronic tablets and with two clicks they can see different systems, only the problem you missed to affect, and so I took this line is that it is not just about reorganization of financial flows, but about demonopolism. As long as this Health Insurance Fund is a monopoly, the money will disappear like that. The second thing we're losing as capital is that we're already gonna be out of doctors. The Bulgarian doctors are leaving the country and tomorrow there will be no one to treat people unless urgent measures are taken for demonopleization, and most importantly, the patient himself has the right to control his treatment process with an electronic health card. In other words, in the world is written the money follows the patient. Thank you. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u26	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, you are right in the part that the monopoly of the Casa leads to evolution in the system itself, uncontrolled evolution. If there is competition in the part of health insurance, many problems will automatically be solved, it is definitely so. In their second part, however,.. about the iPads, that the MPs will see what the Dutch system is, that is absurd, because it is one thing to see it and touch it, it is another to talk theoretically about it. You have to go and see it. After all, the MPs are taking a decision on which the entire nation will then be led. It's not expensive to spend a little money to save a hell of a lot of money. Believe me! I'm sure you know that. That's not a problem. The point is to go see him. The Minister of Health to listen not only to Bulgarian experts on this topic, because medicine is an international discipline, it is not only in Bulgaria the medicine is everywhere. Any doctor can take his passport and go wherever he wants and practice the profession as he has practiced it here. Therefore, in this discipline, you need to see what the foreign experience has done to the Bismarck system, the Beverech system, whatever it is. I, as the MP, want the Minister to stand here and say: "Lord, if you take my measures, which are ten, which I do not care about at all what they are, I guarantee you that you will have health care at the level of, for example, Germany. Let's say, in five years you will have at the level of your country, for example Belgium. I want to see what his plan is, what his results are, details, how he's gonna make his plan. What's it to me as a MP? He's in executive power, it's his commitment, but this is the end result. So I'm telling you, we're a little bit like MPs going through a lot of detail, we're already starting to look retail. That's not our job. I care what you offer, where you get it, what mistakes there are and what guarantees you give me, and what happens at the end of the term, exactly I want to know. And is this thing guaranteed, or is it maybe, I think, if it happens. I don't care about that kind of talk. What does it mean? What are you, then, Minister, if you're going to speak to me perhaps? Get someone who says, "Yes, I can." Here's the discussion that needs to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, Dr. Krasimira Kovatchka has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Dr. Todorova, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It is known that ineffective management in the healthcare system is unfortunately measured in human suffering. The update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund will prevent precisely such a development and the transformation of a problem - the shortage of funds in health care, in an emergency. This is also the main reason for supporting the proposed by the government Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the Health Fund for 2014. We are aware that the increase in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund by 100 million. lv. at the end of the year, after being updated with 225 million two months ago, it is unlikely that by the end of the year it will improve the access of patients or the quality of the medical service and the satisfaction of hospital care contractors, but we are convinced that hospitals will be able to repay their duties by the end of the year and not be in a vicious circle of financial instability. It is known that hospitals currently have an outstanding excess activity since August. We are now November and they continue to work in these conditions and provide access to patients. At the same time, these hospital care facilities are also subject to health patients who are uninsured because we all know that every patient, regardless of the health insurance status, must be admitted and have access to hospital care. This further aggravates the financial situation of hospitals. Given the recent changes to the Public Procurement Act, according to which the payment of counterparties must take place within 60 days of delivery of medicines, supplies, it becomes clear, colleagues, that hospital care facilities are in the conditions of an extremely disturbed rhythm of receipt of the financial receipts from the Health Insurance Fund and, of course, the payment of their counterparties. When the Health Insurance Fund has to pay off the excess activity, it must be thoroughly verified, which is correct. This means that it will get not in full, because with the slightest mistake there will be a fine. However, when paying counterparties, at least a delay after the 60-day period leads to interest. So all of this explains the financial indebtedness of some of the hospital care facilities. We must not forget that medical institutions are commercial companies. They are subject to the Commercial Law and to the Law on Medical Institutions. They support themselves. In other words, we should use the financial resources they receive from the Health Insurance Fund, as Dr. Rumyana Todorova said in her speech, and I allow myself to quote it, with the money we receive from medical activities, we take over the maintenance of medical institutions. I'd take the liberty of suggesting something special about municipal hospitals, because I come here from such a municipal hospital. In the municipal hospitals, which we know are the property of the municipality, in the best respect of the municipality to preserve and preserve its hospital, according to the Local Government Act, it can help the hospital only with capital expenditure and for the purchase of medical equipment. But the alimony of the medical establishment must be provided by the receipts the hospital receives from the Health Insurance Fund. All of this shows that urgent legislative changes are needed, because at certain times legislation blocks the mutual system. Where the municipality has the opportunity, it provides capital expenditure and maintains the hospital's material and technical base. She buys medical equipment and the hospital has a greater opportunity for greater volume of activity and has a stable financial condition. But if the municipality doesn't have such an opportunity, it puts hospital care at risk. I will also take the liberty of addressing Dr. Moskov, which, of course, does not specifically concern the budget of the Casata one note that when there are municipal hospitals that have structures meeting the medical standards and at the specified level of competence and can receive additional funding from the Ministry of Health, I refer to the payment of resuscitation beds where there are such resuscitations to be provided. Because the hospitals are equal and until now the municipal hospitals have not received them. We hope that this problem will be resolved in the future. We believe that healthcare reform should be urgent and immediate. We look forward to the monthly calendar of the reforms that Dr. Moskov will propose. They will be supported by us when we have a monthly calendar of the results of the reforms carried out. In recent years we have been constantly talking about the National Health Card, about new medical facilities and their registration, about the period when they contract with the Health Insurance Fund, for there are private hospitals that make the selection of their patients, which is unacceptable in other hospitals. We therefore believe that, apart from the market mechanism, there should also be an administrative approach that will stabilise the health system and meet the needs of the population. Because at the moment the performers of medical care are dissatisfied - doctors and medical professionals, as well as users of medical care. Although in recent years there have been several talks about updating the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, neither the quality of the medical service nor the satisfaction of colleagues has improved. In our view, this is due to a problem in the Methodology for determining the estimated budgets of hospital care facilities. We propose that the methodology for determining the estimated budgets of medical institutions should be revised for 2015. It should be agreed with the word organization, published and accessed by any medical contractor. Honourable Members, we have a programme commitment to gradually increase the funding for health care. However, we believe that this should be done by having a full use of resources, avoiding unreasonable costs, and all of which should be the focus of the regulator. I would like to say that healthcare is a key political problem and the separation of a fair share of public health expenditure is necessary, with good control from the Health Insurance Fund and from the Ministry of Health. We will support the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund because both colleagues and patients deserve it and this is necessary. I hope next year in this period this doesn't have to work and the system works well. Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u29	Thank you, Dr. Kovachka. - What's the line? I won't. For speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival there is the word Associate Professor Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! In twenty days' work in this Parliament, for the second time a health issue has been debated. I guess this cyclicity won't be compromised, it might even be compressed. All this, in my opinion, is due to the fact that healthcare is the most reformable and most unreformed system in our public life. A system in which neither performers nor users are satisfied has serious defects. I can say that the Health Insurance Fund is the main player in the Bulgarian healthcare system. The very fact that, until now, it is necessary to update the budget, to adopt special acts of parliament in order to support its activity shows that something in this activity is not well planned, is not being done properly. It has a lot of functions, but for me two are basic: one is the financing function; the other is the control function related to the quality of medical services. With regard to the funding function, the revenue portion of the Cashier's budget, which, as I said, is insufficient every year, is formed by a number of sources. The question is whether all these sources are correct to the Health Insurance Fund. I would say that very few perform their duties correctly. It is a fact that the state in various years financed the groups that provide children, students, students, soldiers, prisoners, pensioners, with minimum contributions that reached up to 4% of the minimum wage, i.e. the state was lying to the Health Insurance Fund with 50%. Not to mention the contributions of people who are provided to smaller than real incomes and those who are not provided at all. The second problem is how these small funds are spent. I think this is the big health fund reserve. Since the biggest deficit is in hospital care, I'll start with it. It is said critically about the clinical pathways that hinder the development of the given health facilities and are underfunded. Yes, there is a better option than clinical pathways, these are diagnostically related groups, but they require a much more serious resource. Even now, however, there are a number of disproportions with clinical pathways that stimulate irrational spending. Seven-eight years ago, in the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, the same director proposed that the clinical pathways be valued on the basis of generally accepted criteria for the severity of the individual diseases. These are not criteria that a specialist has invented. These are criteria adopted in many countries. According to these criteria, for example, two of the toughest specialties the ratio is 1:1,2 but the pay from the Cashier is 1:5. On this condition, every sane doctor will head for these paths, which are paid five times more than necessary, and therefore will reveal a private health facility in this direction. In this way, it stimulates what the Casa is most struggling against.. the creation of new, unnecessary health institutions. In this sense, Parliament also has a certain obligation. The famous health card, which has been ready for sure for 10 years, no parliament has so far dared to impose it as a mandatory health card, and it would limit the possibility of creating unnecessary health facilities. This, in my opinion, is not the only way to limit the creation of unnecessary healthcare facilities. It is simply that the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health should closely monitor health institutions other than their rights and know their obligations. How many multi-profile hospitals are taking all the weight of the emergency, emergency and this pathology that hasn't been secured? These are the 28 former district hospitals and some of the university hospitals. How many of these, whether multi-profile or individual specialty hospitals that have been discovered, provide emergency reception in their specialty? I know an orthopedic health facility that only removes the implants placed in the relevant district hospitals by paying it the same way as healthcare facilities that treat these patients for months and who have unduly high spending. The other thing I would like to say about hospital care is that the National Health Insurance Fund itself, with some unwarranted requirements for me, has aggravated its own budget. I mean oncology. In almost all countries, at least where I've been, chemotherapy is carried out under the conditions of the so-called home resident. The sick person, who is in good condition, goes in the morning, gets his meds done, gets his twigs done, is tracked until noon, then he goes home, where the situation is much more comfortable for him and the danger of nosocomial infection is absent. Our Health Insurance Fund categorically denies this thing. In this way, it further burdenes health institutions with funds and does not save. It could be possible to use the same clinical pathways as a home stationary, making a slight reduction in the price of the clinical path. No, that's absolutely forbidden! Now, at the moment, all oncological and haematological establishments are suffering from this thing. That was one of the questions I wanted to ask in the parliamentary control of the Minister. Besides, there's a lot of talk about preventive medicine. This preventive medicine, unfortunately I can say that it hardly exists in our country. I don't know how to control whether personal doctors perform preventive examinations. I've been insured for as long as I can remember, once I've been examined. It's probably no different for other people. It was said very correctly, and about the reforms in healthcare that are pressing and about the abuses that exist. Abuse will decrease and I can say will stop if the individual electronic health card is introduced. Then anything can be tracked very easily. And I don't think we should send people to learn. Since 2005-2006, a number of delegations have been going around the world, translating a lot of health systems, and nothing followed because they didn't get in, just translated them. The last thing I want to say is reforms need to be done. And Mr. Ademov was absolutely right that reforms from one, two or three groups could not happen. I therefore call on all my fellow doctors in this Parliament, all my fellow Members who are concerned with healthcare when it comes to health reforms, to stop splitting into green, red, blue and so on. We all have to be white, which is the color of hope for people. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u32	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Assoc. Kuchukov, I'm thinking of a sentence of yours regarding the fight against the Health Insurance Fund with private hospitals. A great struggle has fallen, especially in the last year and a half. The match Clichko "Kubrat Pulev" was absolutely nothing compared to this struggle. And since that fight, I haven't noticed there's a failed private hospital. I would like to say very clearly to the honourable Mrs. Todorova: yes, it is true, the Casa has a limited opportunity for control, but it is at the moment of a deficit, which has been outlined in the last year and a half, precisely the Casa was the one who should have directed more resources into the forecast budgets of hospitals working on an emergency. And you know that very well. It is not normal for a hospital that works on an emergency, such as all multi-profile hospitals such as Pirogov, such as St. Annas in Sofia, such as the Military Medical Academy, such as St. Annas in Varna to have almost the same estimated budget in percentage terms as a private hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u33	Then there won't be twice a year of update.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u34	It's a simple place where the Cashier could answer and solve the problem. I can give an example of the organism when it is in a state of shock, Dr. Moskov knows very well, the blood flow is directed to vital organs. The vital structures in healthcare are not private hospitals. Let's make this very clear. And one more thing about the famous cassa demonopolis. That sounds incredibly good. However, I would like to ask which private fund will take over the financing of emergency aid? I'm very interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u35	Second line? A hole, asshole. Kuchukov? You're not gonna use the back. There are registered MPs from different parliamentary groups. We're using some sort of order to have some rotation from the parliamentary groups. The word is Mr. Chukolov from Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I have listened with interest to all those who have spoken so far, doctors, hospital owners. I will speak as a patient, as a person who still has to say things from the point of view of the ordinary Bulgarian who has to go to hospital, has to be treated in Bulgaria. All who have spoken so far have said how bad the system is, listed over the years and different ministers, listed shortcomings, omissions and everyone in this hall found how bad the health system in Bulgaria is. My question to you, then, is: why now with this point, with this decision will we again pour money into this malfunctioning system? Does a normal person give money for something that doesn't work? No, right? That is why we at the attack will vote against. Not because we are opposed to developing health care in Bulgaria, but because we are clearly aware that the health system in Bulgaria is currently not working for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizen, for the benefit of the patient. The health system in Bulgaria is a system that is built to make a profit. Here we have to ask ourselves the question: Should healthcare in any country, especially in Bulgaria, because we are Bulgarian MPs, should healthcare be so constructed that certain structures, companies, doctors, people in the chain, hospitals generate profits from the fact that the Bulgarian is sick? Whatever statistics you look at, the European Union, the United Nations, wherever you look, it is clear that Bulgaria is the most sick nation in Europe, according to certain indicators we are in the top 10 in the world. Top ten! Of course, there will be interest from different structures of private hospitals, companies, importers of medicines, people who are ordered along the chain. Of course, there is a great interest in the money that the state spends on health care to be earned by them. So it turns out that the Health Insurance Fund actually comes to the National Assembly with an empty check that we sign. Does the Health Insurance Fund have control of that money? How do you spend it? Can you exercise this control? No. You say here: reforms need to be made, we need to reform here, we need to reform, we need to reform. Here, the minister is from the Reformation Block, he will reform. In fact, for 15 years now, since there has been this Health Insurance Fund, was it not then the reform that has been made of bad socialism? In 1999-2000, when the government of the reformist Mr. Kostov, Mr. Moskov was from his party, then Ivan Kostov's government made health reform. And here are 15 years we see the results of this health reform, the fastest disappearing nation in Europe, perhaps in the world. Exactly the result of this health reform. Older people can't be treated, can't get the health care they should be given, at least as a thank you for working their whole lives and building even hospitals where they can't afford to go to treatment. How many young people can't pay their health contributions? Yes, these are separate details to which I direct your attention as MPs, but this is simply the diagnosis of our health system. In 1999 Bulgarian healthcare was reformed, wasn't it? How many buildings were built in the big cities, you know, repairs, cars, how much money did it go for?! And here some of the colleagues gave this statistics what it was like then as diseases in Bulgaria, as people who are accommodated in hospitals, and what it is now; how much money was going then for health care and how much money is going now. And you can see that these heights are now very, very big. And we give more and more money. And our nation is getting sicker and sicker. This is the result of exactly this reform that was made back then. Exactly that we did, as I said, our health system is a field in which business can be done. We at Ataka are strongly opposed to this. We will vote against this update. Again I tell you why: not because we are against health care because no one pours money into something that does not work and Bulgarian healthcare does not work. All experiments that have been done over the years, starting with Kostov and going through the management of GERB! Remember the light, heavy artillery? The cliché for the gas station where Borisov found his ministers, I will not say it. We must make sure that Bulgarian healthcare is not a sphere of which certain people make profits.. this is not a business, it cannot be a business! This concerns all of us. It affects our relatives, it affects the voters, it affects the Bulgarian people. It concerns the future of our nation! Again, we are the fastest disappearing nation. One of those components that makes this happen is exactly health care. The opinion of "Attack" is as follows: such a body, such as the Health Insurance Fund, should not have. What's the Health Insurance Fund? In fact, it distributes state money in a way in which the state itself does not know how it is distributed. And at one point who is head of the Health Insurance Fund comes here, to the National Assembly, and says: "Things are very bad, give more money. It's a vicious model. We have to face it. Here I heard different opinions of both hospital owners and people who work in hospitals. There are many reasonable things in them, but initially what is wrong is precisely that we take into account a model that has proven to you in the Chamber and the Bulgarian people that it is not working. Everyone knows everyone, unfortunately, has to visit hospitals that this model does not work. Now we're wondering how to perfect what a non-working model is! Let's think about a new model, something that will eventually make our nation stop disappearing. This can only happen when the state, the Bulgarian state, takes care of the health of Bulgarian citizens! The more state there is in health care, the better! Someone, what, will tell me that the state is a bad owner, a owner, as they say when it comes to economic problems. The state is a bad owner, a master, if the head of the state stands a bad man. No statesman has the right to say that the state is a bad owner, that the state does not care for its people. More country should also have control over how this money is spent, how it is distributed, whether they go along fictional clinical pathways, whether they go to accumulate the huge profits of drug importers. Because the state couldn't negotiate with the drug importers, there must be someone in the chain. This is what we need to do first, to make sure that there are no bloodsuckers in the chain; there are no such ordered smarts pumping profits and then the state gives money. To give this money, but to the health of the Bulgarian citizen! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? General Tonev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u38	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I think we're shifting the point of discussion. The motion to vote on this 100 million, which should not be 100, but 138, but come on, 100 million have been proposed, yet something is a matter of urgency. We are not talking about the system being perfect; we are not talking about the Cassate being perfect. We are talking that this minimum money should be voted on because of the fact that if it is not there, the system will stop working and then there will be no good health care and there will be no health care! At the moment, the cassa owes hospitals 90 million, and you've seen that only 45 are available to hospitals. Another is the question of the mechanism itself. Think about it: how many of you have been to the previous two national meetings, which voted three times that the state is not a correct paying agent to the Casa and to healthcare, i.e. to pay 50% of what it owes by law?! So that's where the problem actually starts. And the other problem: 400 million for the fact that the state does not pay them in the face of, of course, the Minister of Finance. The second major problem, which is also a very important problem in Bulgaria 900 thousand. people don't pay their health insurance. I even tried to make a gross account of these 230 thousand people. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm finishing up that have deposits up to 100,000. Euros in CCB. Of that, 90 grand didn't pay for their health insurance! This, in my opinion, is a transfer from the sick to the healthy head. This 100 million must be voted on and then discussed what needs to be changed, because if we tie the minister's hands and feet, throw him in a pool and say: "Swivel! " If we don't give that 100 million, the system won't work. Twenty-six MPs died in the last National Assembly! So the MPs aren't treated properly either. Why aren't they treated properly? They're the ones responsible for this! In this case, if I don't vote for that 100 million, on my conscience and on your conscience, there will be several other MPs who will die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u39	Thank you, General. Tonev. You have caused confusion with this number to the deceased of the last National Assembly. Second line? A hole, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u40	My fellow Members, I do not know about 26 of you must have counted the MPs, but while we are debating this debate, the Bulgarian nation has decreased by about 15-16 people! When we see the negative growth of the population in Bulgaria per year, we divide it into 365 days, 24 hours and we will consider that 7-8-9 people reduce the Bulgarian nation per hour. Right now, as we speak. As I mentioned in my speech, it is largely the fault of Bulgarian healthcare. And in no way will we of the Ataka support the continuation of this vicious model.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u41	To speak, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Financing the health system is one of the main factors for its functioning, and I will therefore, in my speech, refer in particular to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which we are discussing once again today. I would, however, like to recall what we were able to do with Budget 2014 of the National Health Insurance Fund. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] Well, miracles I wouldn't say, College Atanasova, but this is the first time we have achieved that the health insurance contributions of Bulgarian citizens will be spent on health care. You know, in recent years, there has been a tendency for health care to re-dated the state budget. We have reduced by about 30% the administrative costs of the National Health Insurance Fund, I also believe, a step in the right direction. We should note that the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund 2014 is 113 million larger than the budget for 2013. There, of course, are also those 8 million, which are in the spending part for the promised pensioners to pay 1 BGN. instead of £2,9. for the user fee. Of course, it was difficult for us to look at you like this from the front row, as we had to work in a system whose reserves you had spent. And it's good when we're having this conversation about another update on the Health Insurance Fund budget, let's say 2010. ==References=====External links==*Billion and 400, 2011. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, After all, the management of GERB has failed the reserves of the National Health Insurance Fund, which have been collected by all Bulgarian citizens for ten years precisely for health reform. You know very well that there is also a specific decision of the Constitutional Court, which very clearly states that the budget of state social security is different from the state budget and there is no way to transfer funds from it. But what's the main thing? The main thing is that we are witnessing a model of health, which constantly generates deficits, no matter how much money we give. The more money we give for healthcare, the more the tendency of the Bulgarian health status to deteriorate. This is where the coworkers pulled a different statistic. I can also recall that the 2007 healthcare funds were within the framework of 2.3 billion, 2014. We will most likely exceed 3.5 billion for health care already. And despite these limited public resources, any new company carrying out hospital activities shall be granted a licence. Lobbying is continuing to open up new medical institutions and finance new activities with these funds. This is precisely why the BSP Parliamentary Group had introduced changes to the Health Act in May this year, which were precisely about optimizing the system of functioning and control of spending the funds on health care and introducing the so-called e-health. Then, colleagues from GERB, who see that they are now very concerned about healthcare, did not want this bill to be discussed and this legislative reform to be launched within this year. I recall that August we updated the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund with 225 million transfers from the state budget. Then, after a lot of discussions and debates, we, as a parliamentary group, supported this update, but supported it with the very clear intention, the very clear commitment we asked for to strengthen measures to control expenditure and optimize funding for health care. By the way, I would like to ask Mr. Moskov, because this was somewhere in early August, his wards at his office, what have they done for these months since then? In general, there are quite a number of institutions under his control. [[(Comments from GERB: "Which one?" Who are they?]] The answer may definitely be: "Nothing!" is because this is the second time we are discussing an update of the budget with 100 million in this year. I would like to remind those of you who say that we have no other alternative; of those of you who say that, you see, these activities have been carried out and they must be repaid. I would like to remind you that the situation that we found in 2013 was the same. Then again 80% of the activities that were carried out by hospitals were paid, but, notice, then we did not update the budget. And we didn't raise the deficit from there. And here it is good to hear the opinion of Minister Goranov why he agreed that this Casa update should essentially bring another 0.1% on this excessive deficit that you are proposing for the update. It is good, by the way, that you did not return to your proposal from the summer, colleagues from GERB, when we insisted on 490 million for an update of the budget, as we also remember this time. But the main reason for the deficits in the system is also the hospitals. And what impresses me is that in recent years, the duties of state and municipal hospitals are constantly growing. In 2012, the debt was 351 million, in 2013. As of September 2014, the liabilities were 410 million, and given that 200 million of this update August was given precisely to hospitals. It is impressive that out of 339 medical institutions, 43 consume about 80% of the total budget of the Hospitality Fund. And in this regard, Mr. Moskov, today I have tabled a question to you, with which I would like to receive information about the obligations of the state and municipal hospitals in 2014, separately for each of the months so far and which are these hospitals which simultaneously generate liabilities and at the same time have deposits. Then it will be interesting that some of the deposits are also in this bank, but it is good that information, discussing once again the budget update, to have it. And it seems to me that it will be very interesting for analysis from now on, as it will be seen who were the guides of these hospitals that generate such types of obligations. This is a bigger conversation, which I hope we will continue when proposing and discussing the 2015 budget. Until then, Mr. Minister, I wish you personally to have a better fate than that of your predecessors in Mr. Borisov's first cabinet and we are waiting for your proposals for reform of the health system. We declare that we, as a parliamentary group, will participate constructively in their discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. You want to answer, Minister Moskov? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, I will also address the previous speakers! I understand the political logic in this BSP to say that it will not support an update of this budget. This is somehow an act that makes you opposed to government, it is somehow clear, and I can understand political motives. However, what I really cannot understand is how you manage to draw out purely formal motives, purely expert motives to do this, because if we go into the figures and numbers, let's say that, for example, after the summer budget update proposed by Minister Chobanov, supported by you everything else, for example, the money set out in the budget for 2014 to launch this devilish electronic health care, which we are all talking about, are taken to update the budget of other ministers' 10 million. BGN, which are planned for 2014 for this year. And now we're going again. When we talk about other things, I can't understand why you wouldn't support us going again without a previous obligation when we talk about the money under art. 37, that is, the money that the Bulgarian pensioners and their personal doctors charge, this is a social policy that you, together with the previous majority, have decided and carried out. Whether it's good or not, it doesn't matter, but you bet on the 2014 budget. Eight million. lv. For this. The result of November as a deficit that the ministry has to translate to the Cashier so that the Cashier does not continue to generate a deficit is 15 million by November, so you refuse to finance the social policy that you have set up yourself, or what? So I say again, I understand political arguments and somehow I will not suffer internally from that you will not support the update of the budget, but please make it clear that there are really no formal expert grounds for this. Otherwise, when there is a system in a certain form and no effort is made to change, the expectation that it will not generate the costs inherent in this system are naive expectations. So we've all somehow allowed this system to be like this, and we have to pay the bill for it accordingly. Like here, I don't exclude myself, but I don't exclude you, Mr. Boychev. Let's pay for all our differences over the years. I have no claim here of discovery, of vision or leadership. On the contrary, as Mr Abu Melih said, here in Parliament, the clear strategy on which the system should go must be developed must be financially predictable and be good not for... I don't know who said what was going on in hospitals, what debts they had, what deficits they had and so on. You'll get your hair straightened! That, I suppose, will soon be discussed in the Health Committee. Only between the so-called hospitals, i.e. with over 51% state participation, in the same positions, medicines or consumables, for the same volumes of what differences you will see in prices! [[Reply from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev.]] Well, isn't that right, Mr. Boychev, this was supposed to be monitored during the year?! It's a accumulated deficit! This accumulated deficit once leads to the fact that the Cashier pays more, the second time, inside the hospital itself, inside the system remains less for both the doctor's pay and for the real treatment of the patient. Well, that's not happening today. This has happened in the years and there has been no countermeasures in the time when they should have been given, so let's close this discussion. I ask for understanding, I ask for a less purely political emotion in this thing and let's move forward with clarity what we want. And what we want can be based on the basic health performance of the nation. There are great countries like Russia, for example, where mortality is terrifying. A great state makes it possible for citizens to live their lives in health, their lives to be as long as possible, their children to be healthy and to have less child mortality, these are basic things. The aim of everything we are doing, the objective of the 2014 budget update must be in the medium-term, you as legislators, I as the contractor of your legislative role, to bring these indicators to the mid-Europeans. There can be no other purpose. There can be no goal: a municipal hospital, a state hospital or a private hospital. And for my personal destiny, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u45	Mr. Slavcho Atanasov wants a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, fellow Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is as follows. We have a particular problem. There's no money in the Cashier. We have to vote 100 million. BGN, and this is where arguments have been made since the time of Moses. Four times the two ruled, the other four years had full power, and four ministers changed. Come on, please! Let's vote on this missing 100 million, not give me arguments that look like a two-headed hydra that bites each other's heads off. Please, there is a particular problem! I therefore propose that we put an end to this debate, because you have been talking about the same thing for almost two hours now. Thank you. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. There is no way in a debate on the first vote on a bill when the time of the parliamentary groups is set in our Rules and has not been used to allow such a procedure to end the debate. The same is permissible only at second reading on a specific text when such a request is made. There is no way I can satisfy your wish without violating the Rules of Procedure. There are registered MPs for speech. Next up is Dr. Shishkov from the Reformation Block Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u48	Docent.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u49	Docent Shishkov. It's not on the monitors. Until I teach you the titles, I apologize for that, but then I will strictly respect academic titles.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u50	Thank you. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! So far, the only person who spoke precisely and who was extremely pragmatic in his speeches was Mr. Dr. Ademov, as well as some other colleagues. I think medicine is an exact science, and we have to be exact. Not only do we do some analysis, which is past tense, but also propose concrete measures that do not lead again to a budget update next year. Of course, the most important thing we have to do now is vote on this 100 million. BGN, because otherwise there is no way for health care to work until the New Year. We'll discuss it after New Year's Eve. What are the main reasons that have led to the problem we have at the moment? The first reason, in my opinion, is linked to delegated budgets. Delegated budgets in Bulgaria are the main way in which the Health Insurance Fund was drained, and for this I can give you a few examples. For example, a delegated budget of a hospital, whether it is state or private, which has, for example, over 90 or 100 beds, about 10 million, while another hospital, which has 670 beds, has a delegated budget of 17 million. lv. Here is one way in which the Cashier and we, in this case, have delegated money in the past, which had to be absorbed. This is a bad practice that we need to review in order for these votes to no longer take place that we need to make at the moment. The other big problem was the uncontrolled solution to building new hospitals. How do we comment that doctors are leaving Bulgaria at the same time as leaving Bulgaria, we have new hospitals?! So we're talking about hospitals that are phantoms. They do not exist because inside a doctor's ability to have two contracts of employment gives way to discover new structures and new hospitals to drain the casata. This problem can be solved specifically with a contract of doctors in Bulgaria. So automatically, natural selection will drop out and hospitals that do not work, as the practice they have at the moment is to pay money to retired doctors, only and only to have those structures that are in healthcare. Another problem that has existed so far is the lack of value for medical work. This forced all medical workers, and naturally doctors in the first place, to allocate money for their remuneration from the clinical pathways, which are still insufficiently valued. The proposals, which are specific on my part, are several, not to mention what my colleagues before me have said, which I very much agree on a service contract for all doctors. In this way, they will shut down the unemployed hospitals themselves, or those who have paid only to exist and to have some delegated budget. The electronic health passport, of course, as a kind of control. And the third thing is a real health card that needs to be introduced with the required number of patients that exist in a region and with the required number of doctors for their services that are per person. Finally, I would like to say that we will vote, of course, on this 100 million. lv. There is no way we can not vote them because they are expected by the population and patients to do the work by the end of the year. I'd like to congratulate Dr. Moskov on the courage with which he's given up, at this very moment to head up the Ministry, when everyone's doing some hard analysis of the past time, but they didn't. I am sure he will do the job, so I appeal to support him in the reforms he has decided to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u51	Thank you, Assoc. Shishkov. - What's the line? I won't. From the MPs who have signed up for a speech Mr. Vladislav Nikolov from the group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u52	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened carefully to the debate, but it got pretty out of hand. I've heard analysis, dissections of the health care system, of the Health Insurance Fund, but in the end we're talking about increasing the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. We from GERB will support this budget. We support this minister because the analyses and proposals you are making at the moment, the moment when they need to be made is another time when we are talking about Budget 2015 and when we expect the Minister to introduce reforms. The debates and proposals will be in the Health Commission and here in the Chamber at second reading. At the moment, we can do one single thing to vote on this budget, this amplification, this 100 million. Basically, there's nothing to debate, either, because, you know, that money has been spent. You want to do it, you want to do it at the moment you have to do it. From the beginning of the year the Health Insurance Fund had a planned deficit, there was an imbalance between the reported expenditures, so in the middle of the year we made this increase. But you all know that we didn't do what we had to do, but it was part of it, which is when the problem wasn't solved. We gave 225 million instead of the $300 million we wanted, and the problem has moved on time, and now we have to solve it. Allow the Minister to start fresh, then reform. Anything else can't happen at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u53	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Kardzhaliev of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will support this bill and call on my parliamentary group to do so. We did the same in the Temporary Financial Commission. The arguments for the support of this decision are the fact that this is an intervention where appropriate, it is actually an attempt to balance the growing, escalating tension in the system, which has been a trend for a long time, and it is in the most vulnerable areas that have always been such in recent months and years of hospital care, medicines for home treatment, and also oncolleges. The management of the National Health Insurance Fund, I admit, turned out to be right in the middle of the year when you said the deficit would be 328 million, yet the update was 225 million. Obviously no cost optimization measures, no stricter control based on this status quo can lead to a positive effect. We witnessed a 1 billion out of 988 million hospital aid funds. The impressive nearly 280 million, how the medicines from 527 became 552 million, and how the cost of oncology therapy from 145 million to 185 million. I regret to say that this spending is no surprise to those who follow the topic of health. This is also the next reason why I would call for this bill to be supported. I suppose, at this stage, following the debate, only deliberate opposition or a pious political attitude would have put arguments in the opposite direction for non-support. Competents know that this 100 million is not enough for anything more essential than to keep medical professionals in hospitals for at least a short period of time in the most explicit and figurative terms. We must therefore all say that the entire political class is guilty, without exception. There are no innocents in terms of the current status quo in health care. Recently, we have become accustomed to speaking with a skeptical tone about Bulgarian healthcare against the background of dramatic forecasts by analysts, against the background of a large-scale frustration by medical professionals and under the patient's distrustful view. The general conclusion is that if there are several spheres in the social and economic life of the state, which require necessary and unsurpassable reforms, healthcare comes first, with the character of existentiality. Further, clearly serious analyses and disputes with regard to the health insurance model and everything that follows from this in terms of reforms are outlined. However, I am opening up a perhaps appropriate debut of this trend, of this dispute, of this controversy, especially after the creation of the Coalition's Programme Declaration, and especially after the ten priorities of Mr. Minister of Health have been declared. On the basis of our vision, based on shared analyses, joint experience, communication in the forty-fourth and second National Assembly, we from the DPS have built our concept of reform, summarizing mostly consensus measures and a relevant approach, it is in our platform. With a small dose of surprise, I understood, especially by getting acquainted with the platforms of the four ruling parties, or at least those who support the coalition, that consensus will be difficult so as not to say as a bad prophet, impossible in terms of these reforms. That is why I would like to point out my arguments in this direction. In the part of health protection, there are not one and two bold, astonishing to limitless discussion proposals from the programmes of the new political forces, I would say that there are also those who are exotic in character. Now I'm just going to mark, and further in the debates, we're going to tell each other in detail our considerations. However, it is good for this debate to begin precisely when discussing the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and its update. The intentions for reforms of the ruling coalition are the synthesized, private version of our finding that effective reforms and governance are only possible when there are value similarities between political forces and on this basis political synergy, and not as a product of this arithmetical sum of political parties. I compared the similarities and differences between the proposals in the healthcare sector of the four parties. GERB has 26 measures, the Reformation Bloc.. 10, the Patriotic Front.. 12, ABB.. 14 proposals. Among them between GERB and the Reformation Bloc, notice, there are four similarities of a total of ten; with the Patriotic Front four coincidences, and with the ABB five coincidences. On the basis of this impressive for me at least synchronization, eleven measures have been proposed in the management programme in the part concerning healthcare, eight of which are generally defined by abstract and poliotical interpretation. Only two or three are strictly specific. There is a lot of talk about them just now about e-health, health card and I think about specializations as well. At the same time, the Minister of Health proposes ten measures, as a coincidence with the GERB platform there are four points. I won't stop at details. However, the spill is curious in several directions, namely: hospitals are not commercial companies; the complementary model of the health insurance system, which we have not heard from GERB so far; the need for more money for health care There is a gap in other ideas as well the package of measures for the collection of health contributions; payment by the state of full contributions for the insured groups and the individual hospital aid package. While for some of the so-called "reformative measures" I am sure that somewhere along the way will be abandoned I am almost certain about the idea of commercial companies, it is growing in my belief when I read these programs that there are sufficient grounds for concern, to put it mildly, and by an intrusive sense of disharmony of other decisions. This is where I call on the people of GERB, who are dealing with the topic of...................................... to pay attention to these topics. It is always good to initiate a variety of reforms to take place in a discussion format and not first in front of the media. On top of that, I must remind you that, in fact, the legislative function is the National Assembly, and the Council of Ministers must, respectively, be the initiator of such a legislative reform through the Minister of Health. I am not sure on the basis of the challenges outlined whether the Minister of Health will have the same name when we see that favourable finish, according to everyone, at the end of 2015 with, say, e-health... its successful introduction and with the health compulsory card. I am very well-intentioned to the audience about these considerations. I see, dear Minister, a vague silhouette of reform. This also gives me reason to listen to those political analysts who sum up about this government that perhaps his other name will be: "As much as ". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u55	Thank you, Dr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. Dr. Valentin Pavlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u56	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Dr. Todorova, Dear Members of the National Assembly! When I recorded my order of speech, somehow the subject shifted from what was on our agenda. I think the topic of the meeting is precisely an update of the NHIF budget 2014. The last speakers came into this subject with some exceptions. Of course, the problems they are putting in place are absolutely correct. The control that the Casa must exercise, opening, closing hospitals in small and large cities. In my opinion, the more important thing in today's sitting is to come up with whether we support this update and if we support it, why, and if we do not support it, why also? I am absolutely convinced that everyone in this House will think and think that this amount is absolutely sufficient and will ensure the security of the system by the end of the year. That security that, as a doctor, I'm going to say: our patients expect from us. We have one month until the end of the year, and we are entering the difficult month of the month of our search, where not only our patients are worried, but, of course, also our colleagues working in the system. This reaffirms the support of this update with this amount. Of course, we have heard from the Temporary Commission the way in which these funds will be allocated for hospital, hospital care, for medicines in oncology. With this, I also want to conclude that it is vital that we support this update today and now, because our patients really deserve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u57	Thank you, Dr. Pavlov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u58	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! I really have nothing more to bring into today's debate as topics, because it was sufficiently detailed, spacious and irritable, as were most of the health debates in this room. Unfortunately, given the state of the health system, the effectiveness is not available. However, most of the topics we have discussed today concern the overall structure of the system, the intentions of the individual parliamentary groups for reforms in the sector. The analysis was really accurate and correct. Knowing the legislative framework, unfortunately, was not always adequate. However, the topic we are debating today is the update of the Cashier's budget. I would like to return to the chronology of the events which led to this update, because as soon as the 2014 budget was adopted, the deficit was decided. As soon as the rules were passed, which allowed the Cashier to spend the operational reserve at the beginning of the year, it was clear that the money would not be enough. The fact is that the National Health Insurance Fund in a report on the implementation of the budget submitted to the Council of Ministers and hidden by the MPs in the previous meeting announced that a deficit of 328 million is envisaged. 093 thousand. lv. The fact is that this was not in line with the August update when only 225 million were given to the Cashier. lv. It is clear that with this 100 million, which today I hope everyone will support, we will financially stabilise the National Health Insurance Fund, because this money does not just go to pour into the system. They have specific dimensions of the hospital assistance to pay for, to pay for the treatment of patients in outpatient care, to pay for medical devices and the means needed to treat cancer patients. So the control and distribution of funds is determined by the vote on the budget by the National Assembly. I really think that this is vital and will give the system peace of mind, and then in 2015 it will be possible to enter with the intention of reforms. Because the diagnosis of the health care system is clear. We have placed it many times and I see a significant similarity in the programmes and intentions of reforms of most political forces. Innocent in terms of the current situation clearly does not, but I really want to bear responsibility for the last year of those who allowed without any legal change to put less money on the system and hence the problems to be dramatically deepened. Because in the previous meeting only one draft legislation concerning the healthcare system was adopted and it was transposition of a directive on cross-border treatment. The famous Health Act, which was adopted at the end of May and which could not pass through the Chamber because of the fact that the life of this Assembly and of the government was decided, would in no way solve the financial problems already accumulated in the system, because it would act from here on if, of course, all legislative measures were adopted. So I really appeal: if we cannot learn from other people's experiences, at least learn from our own mistakes! Let us now vote on this budget because I see that it is a common statement and the intention to really look for better health of the nation, and the health problems of the nation are the problems of the future and the fate of the state. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u59	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? Dr. Ademov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! Dear Dr. Daritkova, my line is related to the fact that there is a popular belief that says economy is a mother of misery. This is very much true for this sector as well. However, dear Mrs. Daritkova, in recent years, for which we are all responsible, and not only in the last year, the trend of cost increases in this system is pushing upwards, i.e. the economy is gone, quite the opposite. However, misery continues to exist in medical institutions, misery from the point of view of patient service. So to me it's extremely strange that your claim that we are all responsible, but the most responsible are those who have managed in the past year. Please do not try to transfer responsibility to anyone, because we all need to be humble when we talk about healthcare and we must in some way put ash on our head, because we have in no way responded in recent years to the needs of Bulgarian citizens. Don't let yourself transfer responsibility, it's everyone's responsibility!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues! Dr. Daritkova, I am not as provoked as to make a replica of your speech as to Dr. Ademov... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u63	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u64	Despite the procedure, I will say that Dr. Daritkova is right. Yeah, really in the last year... [[Replys on the left.]] It's not a trick. You have to answer from this tribune who was responsible. Unfortunately, I would say that Dr. Ademov, Mr. Chobanov, you were the people of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u65	Mrs. Atanasova, you have to make a line to Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u66	...which you have proposed the budget, which we update in 2014 already twice. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] To really be humble. I have not allowed myself, and none of my fellow Members, in this debate to make a statement in view of who has managed in the last year, but to comment on the topic of budget update through the prism that you are no longer managing and should not be responsible, I think it is irresponsible. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You could have used the form of speech to do what you did, not as a line to Mrs Daritkova. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, Ministers! The subject of responsibility and the subject of humility is very important, especially during Christmas fasts. So I think that everyone needs to experience the catharsis that is needed so that we can look for what unites us and look for a solution for the system. The fact is that in this National Assembly there are more doctors than any previous one. Whether this is a sign that the system is in a particularly tragic state, or indeed now is our chance to find solutions, the future will show. However, it is very important that everyone takes responsibility. Because it is very easy to transfer responsibility to one another or to another, and the facts are what are the indicators of the nation's state of health are really tragic. Let us finally vote on this update, let us give the system a breath, let us stop politics on the subject and really make a health policy and take urgent measures so that at the end of next year the Bulgarian nation can have more health security.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I join your call to vote on the update, but before that request made Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva from Alternative for Bulgarian Revival.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! The subject is undoubtedly the update of the budget, but there is no way we can vote and not allow the Health Insurance Fund to repay the obligations if we do not mention the quality of health care. When we talk about this, let us be aware that in the last eight, nine years the funds that have been allocated and which have been given for health care have been increased in times, however the number of Bulgarian citizens, the nation has decreased further and further down. Perhaps we should ask ourselves the question in an inverted pyramid, not only with regard to hospital care, on the contrary, to start with extensive prevention and prevention, which, frankly, is hardly subject to the attention of the health care system at this time. Many years ago, by order of the Minister of Health, the hospitals that were for prevention were converted into commercial companies that went under the auspices of municipalities. And because in municipalities money is always not enough, these hospitals exist some of them no longer, but do not fulfil their main functions for prevention of Bulgarian citizens, the people who live in Bulgaria. Many things have been said about the funds that are needed in healthcare, but I would turn to the very respectable Minister of Health: let's do an analysis not only of the funds that are given through the Health Insurance Fund, even though it is a monopoly, let's all consider how much money is given in the healthcare system beyond what goes through the Health Insurance Fund, beyond what goes through the Ministry. I haven't met a person who goes to a hospital with a more serious illness lately not to tell me: I need 300 BGN, 500-1000 or 3000 BGN. So that's the money that goes into the health care system on an unauthorized basis. Without analysis and without crossing these paths on which the sick are being treated are often blackmailed, without crossing these harmful practices, I do not think that we would achieve any serious results in a reform. Perhaps the e-government will give opportunities to introduce a little more order in the field of health. The ABB Parliamentary Group will vote for the 2014 budget update with this 100 million, but understand that in the debate and discussion on the budget of the Health Fund for next 2015, the conversation will be much heavier and much more serious. Personally, I expect from you, Mr. Minister, serious proposals for measures to improve the system and cross harmful practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Yanakieva. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u72	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We talked a lot, we talked about how the money is being drained from the Health Insurance Fund, how the money is being spent on medicines, who is draining them, how they are draining them, where this money goes, but I think it is important that we thank the Bulgarian doctors 27 thousand Bulgarian doctors, thank the medical professionals who work in our system, work and provide medical assistance under these conditions, and our duty is to create better conditions for their work and our patients to feel better, to be treated in a better way! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Replies from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Yanakieva, you're giving up your right to dodge? Yeah. To speak, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, honourable ministers, honourable leadership of the Casa! Negotiators said almost everything in the sector, did the analysis of where sincere, where slightly manipulative, after all, nothing unusual happens today. There is a second update of the Cashier's budget within a year, within the framework of three governments. But to recall: in 2008 there was no update, in 2009 there were no updates, in 2010 there were two updates within one government and from then on updates, updates, updates. There was always talk of measures to be taken that didn't happen. This year's next update, let's face it, is a result of the budget that was adopted for 2013. Have you, fellow Members, not forgotten that activities have been paid back for 2013 this year? [[Reply from DPS.]] Not 67, 110 million. Colleagues, let us know the facts - these are the facts and not to be distorted. Several Members have mentioned that reform must be made, that there should be more correctness, more solidarity in the country in order for the health insurance model to go. Dear colleagues, the last parliament started with health care, the last parliament ended with health care. Let's start with health care again, let's not end with health care. Let me say a few words, what a health insurance model. We know that in this country, where there are nearly 2 million uninsured, nearly 3 million. 600,000 for which the state pays contributions, and some $2 million. 400,000. workers who pay health contributions pay taxes through which the state covers the commitments and usually they target bad practices. What solidarity we are talking about, what correctness when 1 billion came home in 2010. 400 million. Bulgarian leva, in 2011 .. 360 million of the health contributions in 2012. 50? I see here that Minister Goranov is smiling, remembering last year at that time he was saying that the money wasn't actually missing, somewhere in the ministry with another label. I hope this time he finds the label and puts it on that money. [[Noise and excitement.]] Colleagues, seeing your smiles, understand this violated the solidarity model, which is solidarity upon payment, solidarity and use. It violated the trust in the system! The trust in the system, which you believe, Minister, does not have a package of measures that you can propose? We will naturally vote, but which will restore trust in the system, to make the health insurance people pay. The problem lies ahead, the problem must be solved. I sincerely hope to see in Budget 2015 the package of measures prepared by the Minister and his team, because is there not such a package of measures, 2015 will be doomed to doing nothing. Finally, Minister Moskov, I use that you are here to congratulate you with your position, to congratulate your team and because I am looking for an interview where you say that your enemies in health care should be afraid, I would advise you to seek supporters in the medical community, because we have also gone through this when a minister was here with white aprons and another minister, previous Vam, was ashamed of the Bulgarian community, so we expect to see what you will offer in Budget 2015. This is your chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u75	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014, No 402-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2014. Please vote. Vote 205 MPs: 169 against 9, abstention 27. [[Applause from GERB.]] The bill was passed in the first vote. [[The National Representative Antoni Trenchev is shooting with a mobile dashboard in the plenary room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u76	Thank you. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to refer to the manner of voting on the statements that are public and not through pictures of the panel in plenary. Follow the rules, colleagues. Moving on to point two: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2014 Report of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. After the report, we'll take a break. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening. [[Departmental Members of Parliament from different parliamentary groups are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, to wait for you to leave, who is going to lunch...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u78	Colleagues, the meeting is continuing, no rest is announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u79	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure: to put Mr. Kiril Ananiev to the vote in the Chamber.. Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mr. Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u80	Please vote on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. They voted 144 MPs: 143, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u81	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, No 402-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 November 2014. At a meeting held on 13 November 2014, the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister; Kiril Ananiev and Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Ministers, as well as Directors of Directorates and Departments; from the Ministry of Health: Mr. Petar Moskov, Minister, Mrs. Rumyana Todorova, Governor of NHIF, Governor of NHIF, Mrs. Lydia Rumenova, Chairman of the Court of Auditors; Mr. Dimitar Brankov, Deputy Chairman of the Bulgarian Industrial Association; Mr. Svetoslav Glossov, Vice-President of the Board of KRIB, Mr. Nikolay Nekov, Vice President of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Mr. Dimitar Brankov, Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association; Mr. Svetoslav Glossov, Vice-President of the Board of the Board of State of KRIB, Mr. Nikolay Nekov, Vice-President of the Confederation of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and others. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Minister Vladislav Goranov, who, before presenting the main changes, pointed out that he protected the project only from the position of responsible state-owned behaviour and not as a vision for managing public finances. The proposed bill is the first step in the strategy of the new government to stabilise public finances, proposing a step towards reducing the costs where possible, solving the most pressing problems, as well as additional legislative changes in the context of the revoked license of the Corporate Commercial Bank. On the basis of preliminary data and estimates, the deficit in the consolidated fiscal programme at the end of October amounted to around 1,775.0 million. lv. In the case of a deficit planned in the estimates of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 of 1 472,3 million on an annual basis. leva. Traditionally, the deficit in recent months of the year is higher due to seasonal, budgetary and other factors, which outlines the deficit on an annual basis to significantly exceed the planned in the estimates of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. The main reasons for this are the failure of revenue estimates and the pressure from expenditure in certain budgetary systems. A conservative approach to the revenue framework has been followed by the draft new bill, and an analysis of the effect of further limitation of expenditure in the individual budgetary systems on the amount of overdue liabilities at the end of the year has been carried out and a balance is sought between the need to limit costs and the potential risk of the occurrence of unsecured liabilities. The motive for the need to update the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 remains unchanged The forecasts for the failure of revenues under the state budget outline the failure of the estimates of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 at the amount of 1 061.8 million. lv. (1.3 per cent of projected GDP). The main taxes on which the revenues are forecast to be lower than planned by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 are VAT from imports, excise duties, corporate taxes, etc. The figures reported at the end of October indicate the VAT revenue from imports for the first ten months of the year to be 3 030,7 million. BGN, with a decrease of 154,5 million compared to the same period of the previous year. BGN, (4.9%) with a planned growth of 14.3% compared to those reported for 2013. Compared with the annual plan, the VAT revenue from imports accounts for only 69.5%. On the basis of the figures already reported, affecting VAT revenue by the end of the year, the downward trend is expected to continue, which will also lead to a decrease in VAT revenue from imports. The main reason for lower expected revenues by the end of the year is the price of crude oil, which reports a daily decline in recent months since July. Apart from the VAT revenue from imports, a serious delay is also seen in the excise revenue. The revenue from excise duties as of October 2014 amounts to 3 370,5 million. BGN, which is 77 per cent implementation of the planned for 2014. Revenues from excise duties remain at the level of the previous year with planned growth in the Law of 7.9 per cent compared to those reported for 2013. In addition to overrated estimates at the budget planning phase, the analysis shows a number of regression regulatory changes made over the last year leading to a deterioration of the control functions of the Customs Agency. The estimates prepared indicate a failure of the annual estimates for 2014 of excise revenue by around 318 million. leva. The forecasts for corporate tax revenues are also overvalued. The 2014 Act puts an increase in the corporate tax declared for the year by 2%, while a reduction of the declared tax by 3.4 percent is reported on the basis of the declarations submitted. The forecasts suggest that corporate tax revenues on an annual basis will remain around 79 million. lv. under the plan. It is clear from the foregoing that the figures of October confirm the conclusions and forecasts made on the basis of the data at the end of August and therefore the profit framework to the new draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act for 2014 corresponds entirely to the estimates of revenue of the withdrawn draft law of the caretaker government. There is pressure on expenditure in certain budgetary systems, which requires the provision of additional resources to prevent the emergence of new overdue liabilities at the end of the year. The caretaker government has carried out a thorough review of budget implementation parameters in individual budgetary systems, with the analysis showing a number of problems requiring measures to be taken. The present bill has largely developed this analysis by providing for a change in the cost framework in relation to the draft of the caretaker government. The need to change the spending framework is an expression of efforts to limit the negative effects on the budgetary position, taking into account, on the one hand, the lack of funding for individual budgets and the reasons for its occurrence, and on the other, opportunities for making additional savings in expenditure are sought in line with the risks of default. The bill proposes the provision of additional appropriations to ensure the fulfilment of their most urgent commitments by the end of the year of the following budgetary systems: - Ministry of Internal Affairs - 125,7 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy " 50.0 million." lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ministry of Health "24.2 million." lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The Ministry of Regional Development "16.4 million." lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ministry of Agriculture and Food lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The Supreme Judicial Council lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ministry of Justice. 5 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ministry of Foreign Affairs 3 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - State Fund.......................................................................................................... lv. The estimates also provide 77 million. lv. to support the financing of European projects and other expenditure. In order to secure these costs, the estimates under the bill provide a resource for structural and additional fiscal measures amounting to 397.7 million. lv. (0,5% of forecast GDP) which is allocated to the contingency and/or emergency reserve. The new cost framework reflects the effect of savings in the Public Investment Programme part of the regions' growth and sustainable development. These savings will amount to around 118,8 million. lv. In this respect, the net effect of the additional resource needed to secure the shortfall in financing commitments in certain systems and the effects of the identified cost savings on the state budget is reflected in a net increase in expenditure on the state budget by 278,9 million. lv. (0,3% of the estimated gross domestic product). On the basis of the above, the project provides for a deterioration of the balance of the state budget by 1 340,7 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. (3.3 per cent of forecast GDP). The main contribution to the deterioration of the balance of the state budget is the failure of the revenues by BGN 1 061.8 million. As a result, the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid in the form of State aid, which is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. or 0,3 per cent of the projected GDP. Additional cost savings of around 120 million. lv. (0,2% of forecast GDP) is expected at the expense of savings in the budgets of ministries and departments after taking measures to prioritize and optimize their costs, savings in projects under the Public Investment Programme based on actual costs by the end of the year and others. In addition to the state budget, serious tension exists in other budgetary systems, which further worsens the forecast of the deficit size of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2014. The deterioration of the budget balance compared to the set parameters with the estimates of the 2014 State Budget Act is expected mainly in the accounts of the European Union funds of the National Fund and the NHIF budget, and others. In the context of the proposed deficit increase and the provision of a reliable liquidity support buffer, a need to absorb new government debt, respectively a change of the envisaged debt constraints for 2014, which would allow additional debt financing to be secured up to 4,5 billion. lv. within the year. The new debt financing envisaged also includes the provision of a loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks and liquidity support to banks of up to 2.9 billion. leva. Those circumstances require an increase in the eligible maximum amount of government debt by the end of the year to 22,5 billion. lv. (28.4 per cent of the estimated gross domestic product). The possibility of providing financing from international markets of up to 3 billion equivalents is envisaged. leva. This funding is in the framework of the estimates of a maximum increase in the new government debt to 4,5 billion. BGN, as well as at the limit of 22,5 billion. lv. for a maximum amount of government debt at the end of 2014. The Bill provides for the mandate of the Council of Ministers to take action to prepare a medium-term debt issuance programme on international capital markets, subject to subsequent ratification in 2015. The following legislative changes are provided for: - texts regulating the budgetary, reporting and other aspects of the transfer of funds are proposed specifying the application of the principles and rules laid down in art. 152, para. 9 of the Public Finance Act as regards the collateral of the accounts and deposits of the budgetary organisations; - in the Law on the Court of Auditors, the purpose of the proposed amendments and additions is to refine the provisions on the powers of the Court of Auditors and its President, as well as to synchronise them with budgetary legislation. The proposed change of the provision of art. 15 of the Law on the Court of Auditors is motivated by the need to achieve compliance with the general rules and principles in the Public Finance Act, where only for the budgets of the National Assembly and the judiciary is provided for a special procedure in the drafting of the state budget, as the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria explicitly regulates a separate budget only for the budgets of the National Assembly, the judiciary and the municipalities and is in line with the principles of separation between the authorities; - in the Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks in order to optimize the legal framework and ensure the smooth functioning of the process of the payment of guaranteed deposits in the selected paying banks: - in the Bankruptcy Act...................................................................................................... 91 possibility of selling the bank as an undertaking is further developed in the direction of providing a legal opportunity to sell parts of the bank's firm in bankruptcy. This change aims to address the insolvency cases of large banks where the sale of the undertaking as a whole to a buyer would limit the possibilities and would distort the market. - the Law on the limitation of payments in cash is proposing a change with a view to the upcoming payment of the guaranteed deposits in the Corporate Commercial Bank and in order to reduce the administrative obstacles to the depositors. An extensive discussion was held under the bill, expressing opinions on the need for fiscal consolidation in the coming years, preserving the deficit within or even below 3 percent of gross domestic product, which would be an important factor in attracting foreign investment, preserving the tax system and others. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results:.......................... 13 MPs,.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for amendment and supplement to the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, No 402-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the importers, Minister Goranov, would you like to take an attitude? No. The next debate will take place after 30 minutes of rest. I'm calling a break until 2:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate on item two of the agenda. Let me remind you of the time available to the parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group of GERB I'm opening the debate on point two. I have those who wish to speak from the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. First is the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u84	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues, honourable representatives of the Bulgarian media! Today, we will vote on the update, or in financial terms, an amendment and an addition to Budget 2014, suggesting that the honourable Minister Goranov has already proposed the framework for this update. But this morning, shortly before the beginning of our plenary session, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov visited the Finance Ministry personally and after a meeting-conversation with Minister Goranov said, I quote exactly what I can see in the media: I made a commitment to give 40 BGN. This statement by Mr. Borisov directly affects in the positive sense of the word about 1 million. Three hundred thousand. Bulgarian pensioners. Of course, I can only congratulate him on his decision. At the same time, this changes the framework of the updated budget. During Friday's parliamentary control, Minister, I have already submitted to you a new updated issue and then I will expand this topic more widely. Then I will talk more about the drama of the Bulgarian pensioners, that they are the poorest and the sickest in the European Union one deadly formula two in one. Now I have three specific questions to ask you operationally: why did you give up your position three days ago against the Christmas supplements of the Bulgarian pensioners when you stated that you were definitely against such a Christmas gift? First question. Second question: why did you decide exactly 40 BGN and not 50 BGN, as at the end of last year the cabinet Oresharski gave 50 BGN. Christmas supplements also up to the poverty line? And third question, perhaps also very significant, not third in importance: aren't you afraid, Minister, that this is how you repeat Mr. Oresharski's scheme for supplements to the poverty line in Bulgaria? Last year, if I'm not mistaken, that threshold was BGN 256. And about 1 million Bulgarian pensioners will be discriminated against. Here I fully agree with Mr. Borisov, who said after the meeting with you, I am fully solidarity with Mr. Prime Minister Borisov that there can be no money, two billion to save a private bank, and that we cannot find money for our fathers and mothers who built this country, which is still privatized, concessioned, to say it directly Thank you. I hope to get not me, especially all these millions of Bulgarian pensioners looking at us, a convincing answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Replies to that statement? Mr. Minister, if you wish, you could answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u86	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Enchev! I agree with every word you say. And that's where I start to answer. I have not changed my position on the fact that inequalities and imperfections of the pension system cannot find a solution by tossing small amounts in order to buy folk love. In this sense, I also respond to whether there are many or few amounts that we propose to provide as Christmas supplements to the pension of this group of pensioners, which you outlined the pension pensioners or a sum of pensions that reaches the sum of BGN 286, which is the official line of poverty established for the Republic of Bulgaria. The problem with the border and the border level, which each next lev or every next penny deprives the right, always stands and will always stand when we have to determine a level of support that does not cover the whole set. But in a situation of potential excessive deficit, although we are negotiating with the European Commission what steps to take to protect ourselves from this procedure, which would further worsen the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European and international financial community, I, after being assigned by Prime Minister Borisov, did an analysis and the number I proposed to the Prime Minister is 50 million. BGN, which may be separated by the end of the year for the payment of these supplements. I have not changed the position that the problems in pension provision should be one of the priorities for a serious debate. So the choice that we have made with the beginning of the reform and the structuring of the pension insurance system as it is known today is to be as fair as possible in relation to individual generations without carrying the burden forward or backwards between individual age groups. Unfortunately, for one reason or another, a large proportion of pensions are currently financed by taxes. Unfortunately, the budget for 2014 was drawn up unconservatively and nearly 2 billion increase in revenue. All this led to the need for today's update. And if I have subjected my fiscal will to the government's general political decision that something must be done in this direction, it is precisely to take away every argument from these colleagues, these MPs, those politicians who, from morning to night, will blame us for not finding the strength to do what they were doing. In order to remove this argument, we accept that, against the backdrop of all the failures that we have to repay by the end of the year, including the financially unsecured Ministry of Interior Act, including projects that are of dubious efficiency under the so-called.......................... for growth....... we can afford this. The practice established to assist the government with certain supplements to pensions or a sum of pensions during the year or at the end of the year generally does not answer the question is this our pension model. But since we are not going to have this debate today, I am finishing my presentation by providing the solution within the existing buffers in the submitted update. You know that even now there are 5% of the budgets of the chief authorising officers who are in the government's discretion, they give flexibility so as to ensure the implementation of the fiscal objective. At the same time, what I asked the Prime Minister, after offering him where specific savings could come from, is his political support to our partners in the government, that this objective is achievable and that I will be able to report to the National Assembly the achievement of the fiscal targets proposed in the update without violating them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u87	Any other MPs for speeches? The group of the Patriotic Front signed up and the gentlemen Slavcho Atanasov and Dimitar Bayraktarov. Before that, however, let us give the floor to our colleague from the Reformation Block Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u88	Madam President, gentlemen and ladies of ministers, ladies and gentlemen! The key issue for us from the Reformation bloc is to put the budget deficit under control next year. I mean, this year's excessive deficit is just an accident. And the procedure that will probably begin the European Commission will be suspended on the basis that next year the budget deficit will be stable below 3%. The two questions are related. This condition was adopted by Finance Minister Goranov for us is a reason to support this update, along with the insistence not to increase the tax burden next year, so that there can be all conditions for economic growth. But there is one condition that we do not see being fulfilled so far, and it is key. The two spheres in which the most money flows are: Health Minister Moskov made a commitment by the end of November to present a plan for better control, to stop the holes for money leaking; the same should be heard about the Ministry of Interior. This is a topic on which a number of governments have not taken measures. We wished that Minister Vuchkov today or in the adoption of Budget 2015 would make his commitment to a reform plan and to cost reduction. Because if we, colleagues, do not master these two spheres, hard next year we will not face the same problems that we are now solving. These are the two most problematic areas in Bulgaria at the moment. I call on from this tribune the leadership of the Ministry of Interior to take over, as was given an example by Minister Moskov, a commitment for concrete reforms to present to the National Assembly. Alongside that, there is another question.. an example of the anti-reform, carried out by the Oresharski cabinet and by the supporting parties, which must be stopped and reversed. We are talking about the abolition of the control of excise goods. It is normal for a government to seek to ease business, to ease small and medium business. What did Oresharski's office do? Remove or reduce control for monopolies in respect of excise goods. You know that controls were installed for both oil products and other excise goods. The cost has been made, the money has already been paid! The large enterprises, warehouses and monopolies in question have already made these costs! At one point, BSP and DPS said that this was a great administrative burden for the monopolies in question and canceled that control! When it is outrageous to hear, colleagues, that Regulation No 3 was repealed by another regulation at the end of January 2014. "Principal H-1," which contains the following motive, which must be heard by each of you. What have the colleagues from BSP, DPS and Attack recorded? That the value generated by the measuring instruments is in extremely high volume, with variables and difficult to process! That is, from the controls that monitor excise goods, the information was extremely difficult to process and therefore canceled the entire excise control regime because they could not process the information! Or to put it simply, imagine a company that trades in oil. It has measuring instruments at each point at the input, output and internal intermediate points. There's a reading coming in for liters. What the ruling coalition says is that this information about liters is so complicated to process that it cannot be summarised by the customs authorities. Therefore the ruling triple coalition then, with the Oresharski cabinet used as a basis and decided to cancel control of excise goods! That sentence I read to you was officially written in the motives! [[Shows.]] That they couldn't process the information because it was very complicated. Only, colleagues, that's why you don't get the revenue in the budget! This is one of the reasons why this year's budget is ruined! That's one main reason! Because that control was canceled. Both I and other colleagues in the Budget Committee addressed Minister Goranov with the question: Dear Minister, will this control be restored? He told us he was going to restore some of his elements. We in the Reformation Block recommend that the Minister of Finance not only restore some of its elements, but restore this control to its full, because if it is not restored, along with the other measures that we have listed so far, there will be no way for revenue in the budget to be made! I'm sorry, what kind of signal is that to the public? By accepting the state some measures to ease business, it starts with the monopoly! Not like that, guys from BSP and DPS! Let's start with small and medium-sized businesses, the monopoly is getting better anyway, i.e. thinking about small businesses, and restoring control mostly of excise goods! If we don't do this, there won't be any, but there will be no revenue in the budget! Next year we'll get back together and we'll find out again, like this one, 300 million. lv. less income from excise goods. How do you expect this revenue to come?! You've stopped the control, of course you won't have them! If anyone in this room is surprised that there is no 300 million, he is either naive or part of the purposefully made anti-reform, as we have determined by the Reformation Block, of lowering control. This, fellow Members, must change now and immediately if we want to have a stable budget next year. Finally, there must be concrete commitments and specific deadlines from the key ministers. We have said which are the two ministries that are most important to us "the Ministry of Health, which already has a specific commitment, and the Ministry of Interior. Colleagues, if we do not start reforms in the first year, practice shows that they do not happen. Let's wish each other good luck and roll up our sleeves from now on. Good luck, everyone! [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u89	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you spoke about the budget update and especially about previous coalitions. Do not address the Minister in the coalition to resolve this matter from tomorrow! We support you from tomorrow to install the appliances! But solve it not in pieces, but entirely! I cannot understand: what is your problem with commenting on the budget update of previous coalitions and not solving the issue in your own, which is responsible?! By New Year's Eve, bring it in! They are spent on the appliances, everything is the subject of a regulation taken by the government, not by the National Assembly and by the coalitions in the National Assembly! Solve it and say: if this is not introduced by New Year's Eve, we are leaving the coalition! And not to go around the minister and around the minister and convince him into parts, all and all. Please state in the duplicate that if you don't introduce this control by New Year's Eve, if you think it's so important, you're out of the coalition. Here you go. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u91	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, since this refrain will be repeated often today "for the controls, the text you have read is correct. His interpretation is that there were controls that gave each other a 20% deviation. The system was so accurate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Is there a third line? Mrs Cornelia Ninova for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u94	Mr. Dimitrov, you missed out on the reasons for the lower collection of excise duties a serious one, in our opinion. It says here that out of these 300 million, 50 represents the refunded excise duty of farmers. Are you against this policy because you're talking about supporting small and medium-sized businesses? Obviously, the new government will abolish this state support, which has been authorised to us by Brussels and is absolutely legal state support, and which we continue to confess as a policy that the state must help farmers with the adoption of excise duties. Fifty million in minus is from this, but we keep saying it was a useful measure for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u95	Mr. Dimitrov's denture.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u96	Dear colleagues, if you listened carefully, they confessed! They totally confessed! According to many policies BSP, DPS and attack could not be understood, but therefore to eliminate control over the monopoly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They can't agree on health reform, they can't agree on reform of justice, but they can cancel Decree No 3 and remove control of measuring instruments on excise goods, and all three parties are about to take over! There were three lines. Nobody denied it. Only in the first line was said this: "We will restore what they have removed, but at the moment because we are watching Budget 2014, and we are looking at the result of your measures, this conversation is now different. We ask: "Why did you remove this control? Why did you destroy him? Why did you remove control of excise goods and allow 300 million deficits at the end of the year? Why did you do it? That's what I'm asking you! We received this answer that somewhere there were appliances between which there was a 20% difference. Well, colleagues, if that's the way we think about it, it might cause one of you tomorrow to propose that a lot of taxes be abolished. Any differences there are and similar differences are possible. I mean, look at the situation. It's a regulation that tells the business to buy these appliances. They bought them. It's a regulation that tells the business to install equipment like this. They installed them. And at some point when all these costs have been incurred, the appliances have been installed, the controls have started, the BSP, the DPS and the attack are coming and they say so: This control has been introduced, but it will no longer be there. And they wrote down the clear motive that I read to you because it was very difficult to summarize and follow the control that comes from these devices, that's what this is about. This is why the coalition between the DPS, BSP and the attack. That's what they confessed to! Nobody questioned it! That's why this coalition was made! That is why our new cabinet must really show another face and must restore this control. And there should be no hesitation in doing this first, because what relief for business to talk about? They've already made those expenses. These measuring instruments have already been bought. This cost is done. There's nothing you can do to relieve them. As evidence comes to the customs authorities there is no problem, no administrative problem for the business, so this is one of the measures that must be implemented immediately in order for Bulgaria's control mechanisms to work tomorrow, to collect excise revenues, not to receive these artificial holes in the budget. By the way, to tell you the truth, I am surprised that, with what is done by BSP, DPS and attack, is only 300 million holes in excise duties! I'm surprised at what you've done, because look what the sign is! You make the business buy some appliances, install them, and at some point you say, "Yeah, but you're already removing control." [[Noise and lines, laughter, calls from BSP and DPS.]] This means a signal to the whole business that control is reduced, that it is removed, that it does not exist! Who, then, is stimulated to pay their taxes? Who was stimulated by destroying control? [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u97	Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! I thought I'd speak more about the budget update, but if it continues in the same way with political statements and intervention, obvious, gross lies by Mr. Dimitrov from the stand that from the "Attack" they had admitted because two colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria and one of the DPS had come out, they may have confessed. [[Laughter at GERB.]] If you want to debate how much the budget deficit has been, we can start from 1999 and move on, see how much it has been over the years, because we are currently trying to debate constantly what the ODS government has done once and you have been part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u99	Will there be any lines to this short statement? I won't. To speak, Mr. Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u100	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, there is no dispute about the need to update the state budget. The political dispute is about the parameters of the update. Different interpretations about the root causes. Two main reasons have been drawn for the first, optimistic forecasts for the revenue side of the state budget, adopted by the previous government in the face of the BSP and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and hence a real deficit higher than the planned one, pay attention, not only reserved, but increased expenditure mostly by the office. The second need to imitate a new external debt because of the stress in the banking sphere and in particular to cover the guaranteed deposits in CCB, the bank which is in bankruptcy mode. Both root causes raise the issue of political responsibility, while the second, according to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, raises the issue except for political responsibility and the criminal responsibility of the guilty persons and institutions. If today we only had a problem with the more optimistic revenues laid down by the previous cabinet, we wouldn't have put the country into over-deficit mode alone. We were going to talk about the reasons: Mr. Chobanov; the cabinet, to offer us such optimistic forecasts for the revenue side of the budget; what is our responsibility; we would look for the reasons for the failure of the revenue side, to highlight those of a subjective nature, along with the objective reasons set out in the reasons of the submitted bill, such as the fall in oil prices on international markets, the crisis in Ukraine, without replacing the issue of political responsibility. It is worn before the voters and we have really endured it, but with the adoption of today's act Bulgaria for the third time after 2009-2010, since the introduction of the currency board entered into an excessive deficit regime with very severe consequences for macroeconomics and for the investment environment with inevitable negative effects, subsequently on microlevels. That is why we say that the debates today in terms of the severe problem with the entry into the excessive deficit regime are debates about CTB again. That's right. Humility has been the leitmotive of the political discourse since October 5th. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about KTB, however, only humility will not suffice. There is a need for catharsis - heavy, deep, comprehensive catharsis, not as an emotional category, but as a political and responsible responsibility - a specific one, precisely because a significant public interest is affected. Let us not deceive the Bulgarian society and say very well: the guaranteed deposits of the investors in CCB, which are Bulgarian citizens, but part of the Bulgarian citizens, will be paid with the taxes of all Bulgarian citizens. This will happen because it has to happen that is the law, but we cannot pretend that nothing has happened. We demand clear political and criminal responsibility on the basis of the undisputed truth. With regard to CCB, there is no such thing as holy water unharmed. Five regular and two service governments are located in the period of emergence and swelling as a sponge after patronizing political rain on this thing, which today could hardly be defined as a bank. It was not immaculate yet the conception itself in 2000. It was requited. Retribution is only manifest today in the form of monthly, fat, family fees, rentals of movable properties and so on. I'd like to know which of these fees, whether for consulting services or for rentals, has the address of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in order to expose public consciousness stubbornly, systematically with the suggestion of CCB as the bank of the Sarai? We want to know the truth because this blue political language, which Sugests the Bulgarian society with continuous production of mythologies, must be vaccinated [[Applause from DPS]] , and the only vaccine is the truth. We don't want anything else. Therefore, on the first day of the creation of the Forty- Third National Assembly, we introduced a law aimed at removing banking secrecy and revealing all ties of public figures with this bank. I don't want to hear arguments in favor of banking secrecy, because in order to have a bank secret, we have to have a bank. Turns out we don't have a bank, we have an erzac bank, or rather a pyramid. If you do not like some of the situations in this law, if it has shortcomings, we do not have the ambition to offer a finished product, I declare, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, willingness to accept, to support any proposals that will make the law irresistiblely workable and to come to a final version, which will, of course, ultimately lead us to the truth. If this truth will also implicate the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will assume our responsibility. But if it turns out that there is more reason to argue about this bank, that it is a bank of other political forces, they should also be willing to bear their responsibility, not hide behind convenient mythologists. I repeat, we have no problem with the truth, we have a problem with myths, and in the Forty-third National Assembly we will break them down with the language of facts. The language of facts is our only ally in this hostile environment. The case "KTB" suggests that we should first look at ourselves before trying to reduce this vice of Bulgarian politics to one party or to one or two persons. The problem is systematic. This case is not the best basis for the deployment of comparative characteristics between the Minister of Finance who managed this area in 2009-2013 and the Minister of Finance from the Oresharski cabinet. I'm consciously avoiding names because the principle is important here. All I'm gonna say is that if we can trace the graph of the bank's swelling, we're gonna face some pretty unpleasant conclusions. Really unpleasant conclusions, and I'll spare you the council if you're so kind with this former finance minister, why don't you get him back from Moscow, maybe he'll be useful to today's government too? Ladies and gentlemen, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have assumed our political responsibility for the main first reason for the budget update. We have acknowledged that whether for subjective or objective reasons there is an imbalance between revenue and expenditure. This implies updating the budget because the deficit will objectively prove to be higher than planned. However, when this becomes clear in the middle of the budget year, we must also bear in mind some objective indicators. Have you allowed the previous cabinet for the first six months to spend more than planned funds, or has it remained within about 46% of planned costs? The office, which was already known for the deterioration of revenue indicators, has it taken into account its costs with this trend, or vice versa, spent nearly 300 million more than planned? Whose responsibility is that?! Again with the previous governors? In general, we of the DPS are demanding clear political responsibility and I will remind you of an inquisitive fact. The subject of strong criticism was Dr. Ademov in connection with the agreement he gave for the planned very brave, optimistic revenues in the DEI. I can open the stenographic protocols and remind you very strongly that in this part the revenues are increased, only to date we are not simply reporting the implementation of these supposedly optimistic forecasts, back to the end of the year they will be overrun. When we talk about political responsibility, we must also see these undisputed facts. Nevertheless, at the end of the cabinet's mandate, Oresharski from this platform, we supported the State Budget update project, unlike the main holder of power in the face of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. The Budget and Finance Committee has assembled a majority to support the update of the budget. In plenary, however, the budget, the update I mean, was not supported because colleagues from GERB gave up their expertise, which they defended in the Budget Commission. I don't blame you, colleagues. I know why you did it. You did it because you're not a branch organization, and you're not an NGO. You are a political force and in this case political arguments prevailed. They were narrowed down to fear that you would be caught in collaboration with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which, in your opinion, would have a disastrous attitude to your results in the early parliamentary elections. [[Heckling]] Yes, your political arguments prevailed. Today, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms recognises and takes into account the need to update the budget, but will refrain from supporting the proposed law not because you do not want it our support and not because we are not a branch organisation or NGOs, not because we have political arguments as well. We got 'em. However, our political arguments are not self-sustaining, they do not just spring from our opposition status in the Forty-third National Assembly. We will refrain from supporting the proposals Draft budget update precisely because we do not agree with the specific parameters of this update, precisely because the reasons do not indicate the responsibility of the office for the excessive deficit of this cabinet, including unplanned expenditure in the budget. You can't deny it! And most of all, we will abstain from support because when our country enters an excessive deficit regime with one act, we owe the Bulgarian citizens the truth about the root causes of KTB. In your programming declaration, you agreed not to support the Bill of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We cannot issue a debt of 3 billion without telling the Bulgarian citizens why, without indicating political responsibility. And for the indictee, there are competent authorities that I hope will do their job. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u102	Madam President, ministers gentlemen. Mr. Mestan, since you spent a lot of time in your speech on the important topic of one of the Bulgarian banks, I would like to put a question, perhaps a replica in the exact sense of your speech. In my opinion, there should be talk about a problem not in a Bulgarian bank, but about part of the banking system and supervision of it, I stress, mainly about supervision. We are often paid attention to how independent the Central Bank is, and when problems arise, of course it does not solve them, but worse is that it does not pay them, and this must be done by other institutions. As information appears, it must be verified, Minister, are there any cases in which loans of this bank are purchased by another bank, loans to certain companies before the problem situation arises immediately? If so, it means that this bank has sufficient liquidity because it has been supported for a certain period in order to ensure its liquidity. And now the budget of the government envisions another billion leva to pay again to reschedule these liabilities, whose maturity is coming. I stress that the aid that it appears to be to provide liquidity rather than to acquire new assets from shareholders, from the bank itself or otherwise. These are serious issues, and for this reason this budget continues to cover systemic problems instead of asking for them to be solved by all those who created them, regardless of what periods and with what motives. I draw your attention to this issue and I would like to know whether it is of interest to you, whether you will examine it and whether the ministry will primarily examine it? This is at least too late in view of the budget he wants to support. It is not enough to abstain, but to reject this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u103	Second line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u104	Dear ministers, dear Madam President! Dear Mr. Mestan, my line applies to the same part of your speech. You pointed out as a third reason for the budget update what happened in one of the big Bulgarian banks. You pointed out that you refuse to bear as a party the political responsibility for this for the economy of Bulgaria and for every Bulgarian phenomenon. [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] You have formulated several questions to which you have given logical answers and after each question followed logically the next question to which you have given, in the so-built statement, logical answers. First you asked if anything could be taken to the address of the DPS and justified why you asked. Then you asked the question: are the others ready to be so effective in their behavior that all interesting addresses can be found? A legitimate question, logically justified. You then proposed your bill as an instrument for resolving this issue. Then quite logically you answered the other question: if there is anything else to add to achieving this goal, you will support it.......................................then..................................................... However, the big question, which in the form of a reply I put to you, is: will this representative group, broadcast by the Bulgarian people, called the Parliament, reach the whole truth not only because of responsibility [[the President signals that time has run out]] And so it won't happen again, Mr. Mestan? Do you have confidence...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u105	You've wasted a lot of time on the announcement. You almost repeated Mr. Mestan's statement, and all you had to do was give him a line. Thank you. Third line? It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov, yes, including that you need to see. And it was no accident that we had no concern at all about supporting a proposal that came from the right-hand side of the block. First they announced this to engage an international financial investigation firm to establish this as well. Absolutely, yes! And more questions, we could continue the list of questions. Perhaps today's most recent question is: what about the destinations? What's the address of these assignments now? Perhaps the address and addressr are the same, is it not Belgrade?! It's very interesting where are the assignments? Is it possible that those responsible for the bankruptcy will also embezzle the assets through acquired disposals of 50 percent of the value of the deposits?! Maybe that's the question of questions today, not myths. I thank Mr. Bojinov for his analysis, but I didn't say anywhere that the DPS denies responsibility or runs away from responsibility. The opposite! I said: if it turns out that in the full disclosure of the truth, some of the truths affect the political responsibility of the DPS, we will bear it, but as much as we are entitled to this responsibility as we have earned it, not to be demonized as the universal culprit behind which to hide the really guilty of the bank's bankruptcy. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u107	For speech Mrs. Diana Yordanova from the group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I would like to return the debate a little bit to the budget update and remind you that, as early as when Budget 2014 was adopted, we have repeatedly stated that it is too unrealistic and in practice there is no way to implement it. The desire to provide a resource for opaque and dubious efficiency costs has led to irresponsible planning of the revenue side and consequently increasing the deficit close to the maximum levels allowed by law. During the budgetary procedure, we argued with you whether fiscal incentives in the form of more government spending would have a positive impact on the economy or, to put it simply, the seizure of more funds than taxpayers or the taking up of new debt for the purpose of more public spending, that it would in practice not lead to the desired effect. Facts regarding budget revenues were extremely worrying over the course of the year, although we have repeatedly alarmed that the budget is wagering extremely overpriced revenues only and only to ensure in practice election and absolutely opaque spending. Really since summer, the update has been knocking on the door. The reason is a very simple? budget expenditure was largely distributed and spent, while revenue was unrealistically high, irrecoverable. The actual proposed update does not change anything, it merely finds that the revenues are far less than planned, and costs more Let us recall the facts and reasons why it has come to this: The Ministry of Finance revised its forecast economic indicators in 2014. The reported revenues in the treasury were reason to predict a serious failure of the revenue side of the budget, which gave signals of default of up to 1 billion. lv. We have warned that an additional risk hides the possibility of imposing financial corrections for hundreds of millions in line with and European funding. By the end of April, the budget deficit was 864,5 million. lv. In comparison, during the same period of the previous year it was only 286.4. The deficit at the end of May was nearly 890 million. Compared to May of the previous year, we report an excess of 45 million. It was apparent from data for the first months of 2014 that there was no reason for optimism, especially with red lights in the revenue section, VAT, social security and social security, subsidies, as well as with regard to the transfers themselves, the deficit in social systems and the lack of new revenue for municipalities. Even then, we expressed concerns about fiscal philosophy that the budget should mainly make current expenditure at the expense of investment and that the deficit, albeit within the legal limits, must be implemented as much as possible in order to exert social spending. This policy may sound popular, but it is damaging growth and it is not a coincidence that the country's recovery is going weak and new jobs are never created. In the middle of the year, the European Commission itself was worried about individual negative trends. According to the European Commission, there is a risk that Bulgaria will not meet the set goals for the structural deficit. It does not share the assessment of the planned growth of the economy for 2014 and 2015 and considers it too optimistic. With these arguments the Commission then, I recall, made recommendations to Bulgaria to take measures in the area of budgetary policy. Now logically a month and a half before the end of the budget year the budget in its spending part is almost spent. So it's hard to cut some costs, and the revenue portion is practically missed and there's no chance of making up for a billion shorts in a few weeks. The Ministry of Finance's efforts to reduce costs and deficit are commendable. With regard to the proposal of the caretaker government, the expenditure and the deficit were reduced by 170 million from 4 to 3.7% of gross domestic product. If this cost-cutting process had started in the spring, when there were signals about it, we would have safely avoided the excessive deficit. The update of the budget, colleagues, is not only a key to solving the problems of individual budgetary systems, but also provides an answer to the question related to the increase in debt limits that will help to pay off the guaranteed depositors in CCB. We are obliged to resolve the case for not paying in certain systems, on the one hand, but on the other, to legitimize the increase in the limits of debt in order to be able to help the Deposit Guarantee Fund with the necessary liquidity. Regarding the new debt that the country will assume. Once again, since there is speculation on the subject: 1 billion of it will go to refinancing the loan with which the First Investment Bank was supported in the summer; 2 billion will be for the Deposit Guarantee Fund, on which the guaranteed deposits will be paid to KTB; 1.5 billion will be the new debt with which additional budget deficits will be financed as a result of, I stress, hollow planned revenues. Of course, this could have happened without taking on additional debt by the end of this year, but now it is better to do so, because otherwise we will be loading the debt issuance schedule and already the price we will have to pay in view of an upcoming issue at the very beginning of 2015. "January 15th, to refinance the old debt, poet by Milen Velchev, will just be too high. The bill tabled is a first step in the New Government Strategy to stabilise public finances. Offering steps to reduce costs where possible and solve the most pressing problems. It is mainly an expression of responsible state-owned behaviour, which shows the new government in the short time it had to submit this update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for lines. There aren't any. Come in for a statement, Mr. Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The reasons for changing the country's State Budget Act for 2014 are clear. On the need to change budget parameters there should be no objections, as I believe we are all convinced that the update of the state budget for this year is inevitable. If it had happened in early August, the picture would now be different and perhaps the deficit could have been lower. I say this not to go back and comment and politicize unnecessary, but to stress that the budget is not in good condition and the opportunities for corrective action in the remaining days by the end of 2014 are very limited. On the other hand, we need to adopt this update not only in order to start the payment of the guaranteed CCBs as quickly as possible, but also to give through this act signals that would help us restore some credibility in institutions. The proposed update increases the costs of several ministries and state departments, with almost one third of the additional costs being provided for the Ministry of Interior. The funds to be provided without special measures to limit costs, without conditions for taking any action by the ministries or compensation for the increase this year, with a reduction of the respective government budgets in the next year. The adoption of similar or other measures, including legislative measures, would be a natural link to the 2015 budget and a clear signal of the government's intentions to seek ways to limit the deficit, a signal of determination to start immediately with urgent, albeit very difficult reforms. Total costs decreased by 170 million, 52 million were reduced costs for structural, additional and fiscal measures and from the public investment programme. With the bankruptcy of the CCB dropped out as a feather money for the rescue, 2 billion are planned for the Bank Investments Guarantee Fund. Expectations are needed for about a billion and six hundred, which means there are some reserves. The latest update retains the expectation of revenue default by just over 1 billion from September, which means that revenue also has reserves. They can reduce the expected default, but they can also be used to solve important problems and tasks. My fellow Members, I am partly pleased with the ABB Group that the government has found a way to grant Christmas allowances to our fellow countrymen with the lowest pensions. One million and two hundred thousand pensioners who receive pensions below the line of poverty of 286 BGN will receive additional 42 BGN, I hope with their December pensions. This is a small but mandatory gesture to the extremely needy elderly. During a period of hardship, solidarity is very important for the Bulgarian society. In practice, the proposed budget update does not imply additional funds, but reflects the already created budgetary situation. This has already happened at an earlier stage of the year. If the balance needs to be restored now, it means stopping any payments, which will block state systems. A good example of this is the social sphere, whose budget increases by 50 million. BGN, but after earlier in the year it was reduced because of the public investment programme and the update of the budget of the Health Fund. Social costs are of such a nature that they can no longer be reduced. In this regard, and in order not to delay or suspend payments on social policies and programmes during the months of November and December, we propose that additional funds of 50 million should be provided under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2014 to cover the deficit and timely payment of the social benefits laid down in the relevant laws, and they are under the Social Assistance Act BGN, under the Family Aid Act for children "11 million." 320 thousand, under the heating target aid budget needed to compensate for the increase in electricity price for domestic consumers for the first two months of the heating season, namely the months of November and December, the shortage is 3 million. 240, under the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Integration of Disabled People 11 million. $520,000. BGN 2 million under the Child Protection Act. 820,000. lv. There is also a shortage of funds in terms of remuneration and payment to the Ministry's staff of 4 million. 111,000. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, as we continue to insist on Christmas supplements for all pensioners because we think they are possible. This can be done through the NSI budget, plus the already mentioned buffers and reserves, as well as possibly at the expense of part of the contingency and/or emergency reserve in the 2014 state budget of 279 million. lv. Although relatively small amounts are involved, support for the elderly during the winter months is extremely important. We must not immediately reject the possibility of realizing it. Whether there will be a procedure for excessive deficit against Bulgaria will become clear in April after an analysis of both the reasons that led to it and the actions taken to reduce it. The threefold increase in the budget deficit in one year is a serious problem, but a penalty procedure for exceeding the 3% limit may not be implemented necessarily and rigorously if we show political will and determination to achieve the consolidation of the deficit, along with efforts for economic growth and serious reforms. Honourable Members, updating the budgetary framework is inevitable, but, unfortunately, it continues in a sense practices related to additional funding of sectors that need reforming. At the same time, efforts to streamline and reduce costs are not encouraged, but, on the contrary, lower budgets are waged in advanced economic sectors with reforms. Those practices should be suspended with the preparation of the next fiscal year's budget. It is extremely important that the fiscal consolidation process resumes as quickly as possible and is set in the 2015 budget. It is necessary to update a medium-term budget forecast that sets an annual reduction in the budget deficit on a cash and charged basis until a zero or positive budget balance is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u111	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. - What's the line? I can't see. To address Mr. Mikov, BSP left Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers! BSP left Bulgaria will not support the submitted bill. For us it was unnecessary after it could quietly be made adjustments to the Budget Act for 2015. The technique is simple in the Transitional and Final Provisions to do this. It was submitted in a third version.. Oresharski option, Bliznashki option, today in option Borisov to have a discussion of a political nature to say that the situation is so severe and therefore we need to enter into a excessive deficit. I definitely believe that this budget is also changing the budget philosophy adopted for 2014. It is changing philosophy in different directions. It is creating laziness for the revenue administration, because if the forecasts were optimistic, then the buffer, which was set in the spending part of 5%, gave the optimistic forecast to be corrected. If you look at the development of objective parameters for the year, and they usually have an effect after about six months, it will be seen that a greater tension of the revenue administration, and, of course, the failure of the five percent set as a buffer, as a reserve for the individual ministries, was possible to implement it, adjusted on the basis of these economic parameters. Ultimately, this budget will lead to a sharp increase in the debt of the central government. Indebtion, which will be the biggest within the last seven-eight, I have not seen historically, or 10 years. This will outline another attitude towards Bulgaria because it is not only the excessive deficit procedure that is important, it is important what it feels like on the international markets when Bulgaria makes such a sharp leap in its external debt and from Europe's valedictorian will focus on another position regarding this parameter. This is a political solution and the responsibility for it is borne by this government, neither by the previous, nor by the first government of GERB by this government, it is a change of course. There are good things in all of history. The good things are also today's news that the policy for helping people in the most severe social state is continuing. However, against the backdrop of this 50 million, ladies and gentlemen, one excessive deficit is justified, which is highly incomprehensible to us. It is no coincidence that the finance minister, respectively the government, has not taken the trouble to write down the costs that will be incurred by this means. The MPs will guess for themselves, and the citizens can only guess. Dear MPs, we from BSP left Bulgaria definitely believe that this new debt funding is 4.5 billion. He'll burden the taxpayers again. That is why we have allowed ourselves to submit a proposal that will use resources that will not cost so much the costs of securing this emerging deficit. First of all, he may not be outnumbered. Secondly, it can be provided by other sources. Bulgaria continues to stand in a situation where it only accumulates funds in the management reserve in the pension companies. It's about tens of billions of frozen funds. At the same time, it goes and withdraws credits under conditions that, determined after we have entered the label, will not be under the conditions under which the previous regular government managed to provide credit to the country. Dear MPs, apart from the numbers, there is one more thing in this law that is government policy. Delicately, finely, somehow at the end and no one commenting that the government will validate the draft budget and the report on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' budget and, notice, will exercise powers as a senior authorising officer of the Court of Auditors' budget. What's going on? Give us half a billion dollars, which is not exactly where it's going to go. Let us write and control the Court of Auditors' budget. The National Assembly elects the Court of Auditors, which is the smaller issue, but the bigger one is that the government must exercise control over the implementation of the budget, and the Court of Auditors must control the government, and the government will control the budget of the Court of Auditors, and the Parliament will not have detailed written these billions, which are currently written on the back of the police, the socially weak, the pensioners, because if the simple account provided in the motives, honourable ministers, will be seen to be far from what is being proposed to be taken as debt, internal and external. I think there are enough citizens in Bulgaria, if there are not enough MPs, I think there will also be people asking how these funds are spent. This is a serious retreat with this, I can safely call it, the first budget of Borisov's second government, a serious hit on transparency. I believe that the quadruple coalition and its partners should ask each other these questions and together to the government, because control over spending budget funds, especially in conditions where the revenue section creaks, becomes a fundamental issue of our democratic functioning. The other means that Parliament should verify billions of expenditure, the government should spend it, the government should control the budget of the Court of Auditors, and the Court of Auditors is supposed to verify it. This is not the way to return trust in the institutions in Bulgaria. I definitely think that the path we are going on is not as good as the first budget of this government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Since there are additional Members of the National Assembly for speeches and we conclude the fifth hour of our meeting, according to our usual practice, when the extraordinary plenary sitting is not fixed with a final hour, I propose that we adopt a procedural decision that the sitting will continue until the discussion and vote on this item on the agenda. Please, voting mode. They voted 116 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The word has the popular representative Mr. Slavcho Atanasov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u114	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, Dear Ministers, Dear Minister! Dear Members of the National Assembly, I would ask you to pay attention to the change that is being prepared in art. 18, para. 4 of the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks. The current text I will allow myself to read to draw your attention is as follows:......................................................................................... 4. In case of shortage of funds, the Guarantee Fund may benefit from loans: 1. From Bulgarian and foreign banks, as well as others. 2. From the state budget, after a corresponding decision of the National Assembly. The text that is currently being proposed to us, however, is with an editorial that concerns us, and the text that is being proposed to us and the reasons for the change were presented to us is as follows: That is, colleagues, we are deprived of a very serious control function that we have as a National Assembly, and we are transferring it to the Council of Ministers. That's what's really bothering us. This is about a lot of, a lot of money, I'd say billions. At some point we give our powers to the Council of Ministers. Consider this text carefully whether to remain in this version. I look forward to what some of my colleagues will say: "Well, this is about efficiency, about efficiency and efficiency, but we, notice, colleagues, are not a presidential republic yet, we are a parliamentary republic and we must not give up these powers as a control body for so much money. Yes, they will also say: The National Assembly is a clumsy body. Why is it a clumsy organ? When it comes to so much money, we do as we do today's extraordinary meeting and make our decision. In order not to get into narcissism and talk for 18 minutes, I will also say some other things that bother us in these texts. I will just say that for us there are some texts that are lobbying, but my colleague Bajraktarov, after taking the floor, will be justified on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u115	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Atanasov, I want to bring clarity to this text. You have correctly read it... how it is in the current law and how it will be done. I would like to reassure the Members of the National Assembly that, in fact, with the State Budget Act, we are solving the issue of loaning some money to the Fund for guaranteeing claims. The idea of this text was that once we have given the permission through the State Budget Act, which would otherwise aggravate the procedure to enter the National Assembly once again, to look through the committees, through the plenary, in order to fulfil once again the requirement of the Law on Guarantee of Debts that this be a decision of the National Assembly. You're right when you say I'm going to point out these motives for expediency. The purpose and meaning of the text was to solve the case CTB now that we do not have time for. You know that on 4 December 2014 the payment of deposits should begin, and until then it should be clear and there should be the resource, the loan agreement with the Fund. In other words, there are many steps, and this would make the procedure even more difficult in time. I hope that there will be no other case CTB soon so that you are a bad prophet that the National Assembly will also be eliminated in subsequent cases. I'm sure there won't be any such cases. But I am ready between first and second readings with you to amend a Transitional provision and put .......... of this text............................................................. to this case................................................................................................................................................................... And once again, I'm sure we won't have to make decisions like this again.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u118	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Minister, fellow Members of the National Assembly! Mrs. Stoyanova, with all my inconvenience that we are fellow citizens and we are from the same town, I will have to counter you for the arguments you have said. Keep in mind, Mrs. Stoyanova, that we are changing the law. That's what I'm telling you as a lawyer. When you change the law to regain our powers as MPs, we must again change this article, this paragraph, this point again by law. So for me, the arguments you put forward were extremely frivolous. I call once again the MPs! Colleagues, let's not give up on the serious powers we have!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u119	Minister Goranov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues from BSP LB and DPS, you had a unique chance with silence to get out of the debate about the huge mess you made. But I can't help but comment on the words of my esteemed Mr. Mikov. I cannot accept in any way that the current government for the ten days in which it rules is guilty of any of the sins in which you accuse it. At the Budget Committee meeting, I said I would not defend this bill because it is not a bill of this government. He's coming to pay your bill. But because the Bulgarian citizens are behind it, do you mind paying for social benefits in the Social Ministry? [[It points to Social Minister Ivaylo Kalfin.]] Do you mind if we pay farmers, livestock farmers?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u121	Tell me about a billion where they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u122	Do you mind, Mr. Mikov, that we pay the bill that you have drawn up for the Interior Ministry by a law which is not in agreement? Do you mind, Mr. Mikov, if we include in the parameters the update of the Health Insurance Fund? If you want, colleagues, do not support this update in the extra cost part. Then, however, you will return Bulgaria to what you accused the first government of Boyko Borisov. Then the state will become an incorrect payer. By the way, this amount also covers funding for the suspended European programmes. Do you want us not to pay the companies on the suspended European programmes?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u123	Thanks to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u124	I have been speculating on the debate these days. I have been following the debate on whether the revenue part of the update is ambitious enough. In 2014, for the month of November and December, it is envisaged that the proposed update should take place more than the same period for 2013. 661 million. lv. That is, in no way do we give up on collecting revenue. But when you can see it in the shorthand in November 2013 I warned you and I can show you the files of colleagues experts from the Ministry of Finance who have the name of "Prognosis plus a hundred," "Prognosis plus two hundred" to get to the file "Prognosis plus six hundred and eighty" and these files exist, then you will understand why I warned you that you were too unconservatively planning. I'm done with this. This debate is clear, it has taken place many times so far. Out of respect for you personally and knowing that you have no way to know this subject perfectly because of your personal professional profile, please, since for one reason or another you fell in the time of your management to leave a bank, do not with unreasonable and unbalanced legislative changes to shake the Currency Board. From then on, I note that financing operations are irrelevant to the size of the budget balance. In this sense, I would support any proposal that reduces the budget deficit below the levels that we have proposed. If more revenue comes from those we now show as an analysis, which, believe me, also contains a dose of ambition, we will not spend it. We're not gonna pretend to be saints that, you see, we came and fixed the situation. As long as we're above 3% deficit, the problem stands. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for the first half of 2014, more expenditure has been spent by nearly a billion since the first half of 2013. I don't want to lawyer up to the caretaker government because neither you nor it is responsible for the disasters and floods that happened in the summer. But it was as if at one point nature was rebelling against what was happening in the country. Thank you. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u125	Mr. Mikov, a personal explanation, perhaps. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, you were Deputy Minister of Djankov, not me, when the forecast was not implemented annually and the budget was updated. Now I understand why Mrs. Tsacheva didn't want...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u127	It was at Oresharski's, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u128	Yes, and with Oresharski, but there he was the head of the directorate, not the deputy minister. I understand why you didn't let us look at the 2011, 2012 and 2013 budget reports. " Because it will very clearly be seen that there are annual updates. In fact, you have only proved that today's discussion is about political use. You have also proved what I said in my speech that you are trying to policemen; to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy....................................... the Ministry of Regional Development................ the Ministry of Agriculture and Food..................................................................................................................................................................................... If these costs were clearly scheduled, we would discuss whether they are appropriate or not. The purpose of this first budget of your second government is quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. If I may, from place one sentence, as a line for the roll call from you. If I had not put in the budget reports during the mandate of the Forty-first National Assembly, you could have done so during the term of the Forty-second National Assembly in 14 months. [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the MP Mihail Mikov.]] We're continuing the debate. Mr. Petar Slavov from the Group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u130	With what argument did you not admit that they were submitted to other meetings?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the discussion really took a while, but I think it is going very well. On the left, I heard interesting things. To a large extent, I have actually heard a confession that the excise goods in question have nevertheless been abolished, which is one of the main reasons why we have the problem of collecting revenue. I heard from the DPS that there was a deficit due to the discrepancy between the revenue generated and the costs realised. The other thing I heard, in practice, is also a recognition that the Oresharski government had spent half of the estimated costs by the middle of the year. However, honourable gentlemen of the DPS, after the revenue, which is the equivalent of the expenditure, was obviously at a heavy cost to the six-month period. So today, at the moment, we are forced to have this discussion, to comment on this excessive deficit. By the way, the last time we talked about excessive deficit was thanks again to the gentlemen on the left and the DPS at the end of the reign of the Triple Coalition, to remind you. Now we're in a similar situation again, and here it honors the new government for succeeding this over-deficit in practice of 4%, which emerged...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u132	There were surpluses then, not deficits!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u133	... to be reduced to more acceptable limits, and for next year to commit to being within 3% and exit from this procedure. That's not why I took the floor. I took the floor to say something about judicial reform and the judiciary. For the first time, this budget update also provides additional funds for the judiciary. Something like this hasn't happened in a long time. Thanks to these additional funds, as the Minister of Justice has confirmed today, the system and courts will be able to complete the year as normal. I say that because there was a real danger, as some magistrates warned in the middle of the year, some courts would stop and block. Such a miracle during the worst crisis in Bulgaria we did not have, but thanks to the management of the Oresharski cabinet we had brought things there. This I also consider as a positive example of this update. I realize that it is absolutely necessary and necessary because the money has long been spent by the honourable ladies and gentlemen of BSP and DPS and we simply have no other option but to accept this update at the moment. I'll end up with an appeal to the finance minister. I'm using the excuse that he's here. Mr. Minister, I very much hope that in the next year, when the various departments turn to you with requests for additional funds, you place as a condition to demand reforms from them, to clog holes and holes from where public funds leak out. To provide them with funds against reforms so that taxpayers' money can be spent transparently and effectively for the purposes for which they are intended and not stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u134	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, I suggest you remove the filters from your ears so that you don't hear selectively. You only hear what you're thinking of hearing. If today what we are looking at and debating is called budget update, for me this is not an update and cannot be called an update. Budget update and debate on it could have been held at the end of July and the beginning of August when the real update was proposed in connection with the reduction of the revenue by 500 million, with the creation of buffers of 500 million, which would have allowed the office to legally spend the money, and not, as is now spent unknown for what, at their discretion. Now we're doing not an update, but legitimizing the money they spent as they decided to spend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Another line? Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Dear Mr. Slavov, you could, when talking about expenses and extraordinary expenses in the context of the budget update, use specific numbers. These are clearly indicated on the website of the Council of Ministers. If you had done so, you would have had a clear answer to which government was making extraordinary spending beyond planned. The government of Prime Minister Bliznashki spent extra 207 million from the notices after the meetings of the Council of Ministers. BGN, outside the planned costs, unlike the government of Plamen Oresharski, which, within the first six months, was limited to spending 46% of the planned costs. If you haven't been informed, about you, the audience in parliament and the one following the debate, to say what extraordinary spending has allowed Georgi Bliznashki's government. Of course, $1 million. lv. of his employer, President Plevneliev; of course, a curtsy towards municipalities with mayors of GERB, just before the elections had to spend, namely. 5 million. lv. of the municipality of Plovdiv and 8 million lv. of Sofia Municipality; little money for construction companies to pay off activities just before the elections, increasing the funds of the Road Agency, notice, in October, for major repairs and new construction given the hole that Prime Minister Bliznashki claimed and also for maintaining the Republican road network. Totally, that's 207 million. BGN, spent above the planned, provided that the same government prepared an update project, which with small amendments was tabled by Mr. Vladislav Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u138	The weather, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u139	That is, when you talk about a budget, talk to specific numbers, because, if political and other responsibility is to be borne for promiscuous waste of state money, there must be specific individuals and entities, in this case this is Georgi Bliznashki's government, which is yet to be investigated for all these costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u141	Thank you. In fact, there is a very simple question that, if we can answer it, perhaps everything will become clear. But the main question is: why, since this Oresharski government, as the BSP and the DPS have argued, was it so good and so well managed, only submitted an update of the budget in the middle of the year? And why, then, did this government in this update want a deviation from the Public Finance Act and the 2% deficit limit established there and wanted to allow it to reach a 3% deficit by 6 months? That is to say, we all know that even then we have seen the excessive deficit they achieve with these spendings. Once again, let me explain it to people who are not economists: when you bet and inflate the revenues, obviously and spend according to them, the costs you have made will be greater than what you actually have. So the fact that they've spent 47,48% in the middle of the year from the Oresharski cabinet compared to the stakes is not encouraging at all. On the contrary, this is very disturbing because, as we have seen, revenue has fallen by more than a billion, and that means that it is obviously spent by more than a billion more. That money was just gone and they were spent on the budget that it was for the whole year. That's why we're actually forced to do this update right now. And I say again, what is encouraging in this case is that reserves have been found, that the deficit is not as scary as it was supposed to be, and it will still be in some kind of bearable boundaries with the prospect of being within the three percent next year and possibly ending the excessive deficit procedure. Over-deficit procedure, where BSP and DPS once again put us in. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u142	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. To speak, Mr. Svetlin Tanchev from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Once again, an update of a populist and unrealistic republican budget is put to the vote in this House. Moreover, this actual update would only enter into force for three weeks until the end of the year, which makes it completely late. Since the beginning of this turbulent and economically unstable year, it has been clear that the expected economic rise cannot take place and the parameters set in the budget cannot be met. Even then it was clear that it would come to an update. It would not have come to the update if in the last days of 2014 and if the office had the will to take the necessary measures. If he had made efforts to increase the collection rate of already overvalued revenues rather than to deal with dismissals and construction, and efforts were made to reduce costs, the proposed budget update could at the moment seem more positive and not even as necessary three weeks before the end of the year. In the reform of Budget 2014 the ruling coalition pledged as a top priority economic revival. However, obviously the fixation was not prepared for a situation with early parliamentary elections, a office and a business that did not function normally. Due to the political and economic situation, it is evidence that corporate tax revenue forecasts on an annual basis point to a 79 million fall below the plan. After the government of Plamen Oresharski proposed a first update of the budget, the analysis of its state by the office proposed to further finance a lot more budget sectors. In the final, following another proposal, as a result of overvalued forecasts of revenue and pressure on individual budgetary systems, there is a forecast of deficit under the consolidated fiscal framework of up to 3.7% of the projected gross domestic product. In early August, Parliament increased the costs of the Health Insurance Fund by 225 million, cutting the money of the ministries by 10% and the municipalities by 5%. Even then, we have said that this is the last time we will support a reform for a system that has not been reformed. But not once again have we compromised our words and promises. Taking into account the short period within which the National Assembly must carry out the update of the current budgetary framework, we are aware that it is necessary and will help less tension in public finances. On the other hand, at the end of the year, such an update deprives the regular government of the possibility of taking any rescue measures against the budgetary system. By increasing the costs of several ministries and other departments, despite the consolidation measures taken by the Ministry of Finance, in essence and the Budget update project is deprived of the necessary reforms. More money for some ministries, less money for others. Some ministries will have 90% of their budgets, and the other budget systems, whose analysis shows that serious problems are emerging at present and where the necessary reforms are not implemented, will have approximately 400 million. lv. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission's decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods. lv. the additional costs are provided for the Ministry of Interior because of the changes in the law, which provide for an increase in wage costs and material social security for the employees, without the provision of funds in the budget of the Ministry for 2014. This has also been acknowledged by the former Minister of Finance in the previous regular government. His planned budget, adopted by the Forty-second National Assembly, is now testing many other budgetary areas due to a lack of funding. Naturally, the situation in our banking sector must also be taken into account. The legislative changes envisaged in this area have united most of the political forces in Parliament, and this is a good signal that we have learned a lesson. Another useful step that can be taken to manage the costs is to bind their higher levels this year with their compensation in the next year, as recorded in the Public Finance Act. If there are no cost limitation measures in the Budget update project, it is due to a lack of will by the previous government and not because of a lack of opportunities. In view of everything I have said, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center cannot support the update of the budget. We do not consider it our political responsibility to draw up such a financial annual plan or its necessary adjustment, which will undoubtedly lie on taxpayers' shoulders. People should not be held hostage by politicians because of their populist practices. We are here to work for those who have chosen us and have trusted us. We have to stop making empty promises. In this order of thought, we hope that budget 2015 planning will be carried out on the basis of realistic forecasts and be accompanied by the expected reforms which necessarily follow an expression when drawing it up in the coming weeks. If this is not done, we will face another urgent update to save the normal functioning of the state. We must put an end to this wicked practice. At last, politicians must put populism and the battle for popular approval behind them with unfulfilled promises and start the necessary reforms and they will finally happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u144	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Chukolov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Today we are looking at an extremely important topic, which is why the cameras of the National Television and the microphones of the National Radio are on. I have bothered to see whose signature is under the document that we should vote on - this is Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's signature. Mr. Chairman, you from the management do what you need to do, call Mr. Borisov to come here to the Chamber when we look at something so important, something under which his signature stands. Let him be here to protect what he brings into this room. [[Early excitement in GERB. A line from the National Representative Georgi Andonov.]] As I told you, we are looking at an extremely important subject. People are now standing in front of TV screens, watching.. understand that something important is being voted in this room, the finances of the state. They stand and think: what will help me, my family, how will things change for me, positive or negative? On the other hand, there are people who say, "Don't bother me with politics, it doesn't matter to me who's in power and so on. The news about them is that they may not be involved in politics, but politics is dealing with them. Here, today in this Chamber we decide whether the Bulgarian state to withdraw debt, what debt this debt should be, how much billion to be, how much external, how much domestic. We decide how this debt will be distributed. It is clear that much of what we are voting on today is simply to cover the KTB problem. We at Ataka say the following: the Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian state should in no way cover the damage that this bank has done to the country. There are enough banks in Bulgaria. This is a problem of the banking sphere. Let the banks raise funds among themselves and cover the problem created by KTB. But don't raise the interest rate on the loans, if you don't mind. They're making a profit on enough other feathers! They should stabilize their sector. It's not for us to draw credit, which our children will then pay for. We must not allow this in any way! The problem of Bulgaria. Many of you have led an election campaign before entering this parliament, you have met with voters and you know what people say: Bulgaria's problem is not foreign policy, it is not something else. This budget update and the budget that we are going to adopt in a few weeks, is this income problem solved for next year? No, they don't. You know that perfectly well. In the Bulgarian Constitution it is written that Bulgaria is a social state. What does a social state mean? A country that takes care of its citizens! Is Bulgaria a Social State? No, it's not social. You know that. Even if the required number of signatures is collected, even the Constitutional Court may refer. This contradicts so clearly written in the Constitution text. The problem in Bulgaria is income, because when the population has incomes, then the birth rate increases, then the life expectancy increases, this demographic collapse is corrected, which I told you about a little earlier. That's right, yeah. Bulgaria's problem is income. It must be clear to everyone, please, except the entire Bulgarian people, and to its representatives in this House, when we make a decision, let us first think: does this increase income, does it reduce it, does it harm the Bulgarian people, or does it not? Otherwise, there will be a plenary room without a people. Politicians without people will remain because our people are disappearing as we read in economic texts, theories, doctrines and argue with each other. My call to you is to be guided by this very thought when you speak from the stand and when you press the button. Mr. Enchev of the Patriotic Front said that he is solidarity with Prime Minister Borisov for finding funds for 40-50 million pensioners to receive a bonus of 40 BGN. For Christmas, and the poorest of them. That's right, but in this poor Greece, which everyone says is the worst in Europe, they get their 13th pension! Before me there is a statement by Borisov in 2011: We will help the brotherly Greek people. In 2011, the previous term when Borisov did not raise pensions by one lev. He felt it, the minister himself admitted it and said: "So that you would not accuse us of not raising our pensions, so that we did not raise our pensions. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] It's a purely piercing move. The parties receive about 40-50 million a year. lv. a subsidy from the State. We from Ataka suggested that this is not the case. Let's vote on the proposal of "Attack" it is in the Ministry. Tomorrow by Al. 3 we can offer it here, in the Chamber to drop the subsidies of the parties and this money to go for social activities! Why shouldn't we accept it? Why shouldn't we accept it? [[GERB lines.]] Honourable Members, we at the attack will vote against this update because we have no right to enslave our children with a huge debt that they must repay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech Mr. Lachezar Ivanov from the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! We've been talking about the budget update since this morning. I'm sitting here listening carefully and taking notes. I have memories of déjà vu in my head. I would remind you that in 2009, when the political party GERB came to power, the situation was exactly the same again the budget update. I sit and listen to colleagues on the left, many of them were MPs in 2009. With the same arguments, they stood before us to protect how good a budget they had created. I'm listening very carefully today, and I've got some numbers I'm going to mention. This budget for 2014, which was voted on by them and by the DPS, is updated once again. If this budget were well predicted, well calculated by Mr. Oresharski, it would not be necessary to update the budget in their management. I would like to ask here and let them disprove me, I would ask to have a reply: how, without the planned money for the Ministry of Interior, suddenly some strong politician from BSP will not look at Bulgaria, decided to increase without having foreseen both in the general budget and in the budget of the Ministry of Interior to have such money? I'm asking: where does this thing have it?! The answer was given by an old and very wise woman named Mrs. Merkel. [[Elevator bell dings]] which quotes very accurately and clearly that always... [[crowd cheering, cheering]] Thank you. Usually when talking about a wise man, it is called an old man. She said the following: Only when they manage communists That is why today we must raise the budget once again. I ask: in 10 days this government is responsible for the update of the budget? What fault is it for all of us to be present today and make a budget change?! I'd like to give you a few more digits. Forty million more for tobacco manufacturers. Why, fellow Members, was this change made? I think you're answering your own questions. [[GERB's line]] I'm hearing an answer on the right-hand side. Then 32 million for the grain producers. Laugh, but it's because of you, and I want you to replicate me afterwards. Thirty-two million more for the grain producers, which were taken accordingly, because the budget is built so that when you take from somewhere, you have to remove. So now the livestock must be given the money that was taken from them. Fifty million for social payments and expenses, which also need to be taken from somewhere to be given. Moreover, you know well that the budget of the Ministry of Health has been reduced by 10%. Here are specific examples of why we are sitting here today, thinking about why and how this happened. I don't know what kind of glasses we're supposed to put on, maybe plugs, justify themselves from here, and make attacks about how the budget needs to be updated. I also ask the question about KTB, as it is part of the budget update problem. I would like to ask, in addition to the responsibility borne by the BNB, for the Finance Minister, for the Prime Minister, as we all know, the financial policy is part of the national security of Bulgaria. I ask: where were all these people? Because we are now forced to make the budget changes for this reason. Clearly, there may not be a responsible one at the end, but here, without asking, all the time, there's a DPS refrain: who is guilty and why is guilty? Interesting, without asking them, they put in themselves a bill of what is also of interest. I continue on: why was the budget planned in this way to reduce the collection rate and the costs................................................................................................................. We see this thing. And something I'm going to say for the finale. An application was made here, just before the end of the 40th National Assembly, to update the budget and support from the DPS. And today we hear the statement of the President of the DPS that they will not support the budget in which they participated and voted last year. Let all who are watching us do well to draw their conclusions in how half of the left is trying to tell how they were not involved at all and do not know what this is about. There is always an update of the budget after their management. Thank you. [[(Laughter) (Applause from BSP LB and lines:) There is no line from our side! Alas, there is no!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! It seems to me that by throwing numbers in the order of 40 million and 32 million, small amounts compared to the budget of a 7 million-dollar country, we don't actually see the forest from trees. Here the big argument is why has the previous government established a more social budget when there is no money for it? The question is not whether it was a good budget or a bad budget. The question is the model of the state. The neoliberal state you support...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u150	Mrs. Tasheva, excuse me, are you making a statement or a line from Mr. Lachezar Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u151	No, I'm not making a line. I asked for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u152	I gave you the floor for a line, if you haven't figured it out, we're still in replica and doppelganger procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u153	Well, if I have to and I'm out, I'll make a line for the gentleman. [[Laughs. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u154	No, no, no, no, no, Only he's out!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u155	The point is that the model does not allow the state to perform its social functions, gentlemen! And I do not accept, and our group does not accept to teach us about budgeting a party that stole the reserve of the National Health Insurance Fund and which blamed the Bulgarian pensioners for eating the fiscal reserve. That concludes my line, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Any other lines to Mr. Lachezar Ivanov? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Turnovalyski BSP left Bulgaria for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u157	We want an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u158	Time extension, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We have started the debate on budget update so long expected, for months of comments, but here we must clearly state the reasons for this update that we are debating today. First, as regards the reasons requiring the update. The idea that is launched by the government, and it is launched through the election campaign, is that the high deficit, you see, is caused by the wrong planning and mismanagement of European funds. This way of presenting things and the need for an update is harmful because this leads to a reduction of trust in Bulgaria and this way of presenting things is chasing the external investors who so want to participate in our economy. Budget update is being made in all countries of the world, precisely because the budget is being drawn up on the basis of macroeconomic forecasts and assumptions. Budget update does not show a failure of governance and, in particular, of fiscal policy, where the facts are objective, as is our case: instead of inflation at stake 1.8.Deflation, a decline in world market prices, a contraction of imports by 11%, an increase in the euro, significantly lower than forecast oil prices, the real growth of gross domestic product is expected to be lower by 0,5%, a serious internal political crisis and an external crisis in Ukraine and the Middle East. These are the objective facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Reply to the right: Where did you sleep?!]] Objective because the government cannot be responsible for changes in the forecast prices of exchange rates and exchange rates that are determined by the world markets. In general, only by chance are such predictions, even of leading global analysts. This is because there is no way that the collapse of KTB was set in Budget 2014 and this collapse has caused direct and indirect negative effects on the entire economic system. We believe that the new government is applying a very conservative approach to the revenue framework. On pages 3, 4 and 5 the reasons are that the October data confirm the conclusions and forecasts. Where is this data, Minister? We don't have them. Based on the information we have on operational data for October, it is clear that revenues are increasing by 115 million. lv. compared to the previous months. And all this is due to [[(Calling right:..of ……]] We confirm the effect of the changes made at the beginning of the year and expected additional revenue from this. Because in the first half of 2014, ladies and gentlemen, Neftohim was in the planning repair. This is due to the reduction in excise revenue as well as the volume of imports of oil and not the repeal of Decree No 3 and its replacement by Decree No 1. And if you look at October's operational data on excise revenue, you will see that the revenue from excise duties for October is twice as high as in all previous months -- $763 million compared to 330, on average for the previous months. For 2014 we bet 2 billion. lv. an increase in budget revenues, but we will achieve a little more than 1 billion more compared to 2013 and therefore this revenue is more than all the revenues for the years of GERB management. How come with the biggest budget revenue you're saying this year and this management is the worst? The GERB government since 2009 has also never carried out its planned estimates in one year, so it spent 4 billion. lv. inherited from the triple coalition fiscal reserve and took another 4 billion. BGN new loans. They made the update of their budget the first year of government, and the latter just resigned, then they fired their finance minister because of the public mistake announced by Prime Minister Borisov and the bankruptcy of fiscal policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u160	Mr. Turnovallisky, I remind you that we are discussing Budget 2014 and not 2009!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u161	According to the Ministry of Finance, the left fiscal reserve at the end of Oresharski's management is 8.9 billion. lv. [[Where are they now?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] , which guarantees 100% of all bet payments by the end of this year and the necessary payments at the beginning of 2015. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for direct payments. Yes, it turned out that the revenue plan was optimistic about the unexpected development of the main price trends in international markets, but the task of parliament is to set higher goals for the government instead of agreeing to comfort for it and easily feasible indicators. With regard to the management of EU funds. If Mr. Borisov was sincere here, from this stand a few days ago, it is fair to stand up and say that you are wrong when you say: "We are being let go, you are being stopped!".......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u162	Fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u163	It is not true and it is not a fact, sir, because Mr. Walter Defa, Director of the Directorate-General for Regional Development and the European Commission, says that the reason is a deficit of 23 billion in the budget of the European Commission, which is why 150 programmes in Europe are suspended, two of which are Bulgarian. The problems that we need to deal with with this update are the result of accumulated problems over the years in different governments and here is the result of a deficit of more than 3%. Whether these results will lead to a failure of your commitments, I cannot say, but we must in no case allow them to increase the tax burden for Bulgarian citizens and for Bulgarian businesses until we enter into a spiral of deficits and debts that we will not be able to repay for generations. It took more effort on the part of the caretaker government and, of course, the new cabinet to reduce costs and more effective measures in terms of collection. You chose the easier way to reduce revenue and increase expenditure, despite the provisions of the Public Finance Act, with the explanation again: guilty are the previous ones, the important thing is that we go clean. In conclusion, colleagues from GERB, when are you honest when last year in discussing the update of the 2013 budget you were offering revenue growth, or now when you say that the revenues for 2014 are unrealistically planned? Then Minister Goranov, acting as a member of the parliament, said in the Chamber: "Why don't you set ambitious goals? " On what basis, gentlemen of government, you will define as a failure the best parameters of a state budget compared to all previous years, with a record fiscal reserve of 8 billion. The Commission therefore concludes In fact, all the basic parameters of the real indicators for the 2014 budget are better than all the years of the age of Djankov. If not, what are your arguments for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u164	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. I am asking the Members of the National Assembly when applying a retrospective element in their speeches to be limited to 1 January 2014, as the subject under discussion is Budget 2014. You have the floor for a line. Here you are, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u165	I listened very carefully to your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u166	But he was reading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u167	Yeah, he was reading. I'm listening to him and asking myself: why did you lose the election, I couldn't understand? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Didn't the voters understand you? What happened to losing the election? [[Reply from BSP LB.]] I'm not messing with you. Ask yourself that question. If our economy was so good and all is well, why are these the results of the elections? Why are there eight groups in the National Assembly? In fact, things don't really work out. That's the truth. No matter how expert you talk to us here, what's the reality? We have a bankrupt bank, the state has to give it a full helmet and pay for the losses. This is the reality, and a budget that needs to be complemented from somewhere. Where do you want it to be filled in?! You borrow money and you complement it. It's so simple that it can't be. Otherwise, you had good revenue from customs. I'm not an expert on this, but isn't that your assignment? It's your job to brag that there's good revenue, isn't it? That's why you've taken government and you're in charge. Do not compare your management to ours, to the front or to the future. Let's see what happens to the future of Bulgaria. The past is over. The bank is bankrupt, the budget will be voted now, the people will take their money, but the future is still ahead of us. What do you propose for the future? The past we've understood about the future, what do you suggest? That's what I want to hear. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u168	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Turnover, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u169	I have no intention of commenting on our election results, but I don't think yours are very good either. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Fiscal policy and what the government was leading has nothing to do with the election results. And as for your call to think forward, that's exactly what we've been doing. That is why we have set ambitious goals and have required revenue administrations to realise more revenue in order to have, to make the policies we promise people and to whom we are talking about exactly during elections, sir. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u170	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret that the Minister of Finance is not in this Chamber because I believe that what I am about to say is extremely important. Important for several reasons. The first reason is that strange silence exists on the texts that are to be amended by BSP left Bulgaria. Even weirder is the silence on these tests and on the part of the DPS. If Mr. Mestan, who was crying out to the public of the Bulgarian National Television and of Parliament in kind words, applying the well learned by his teacher the philosophical law of denial of denial, and some must have believed him in the good thoughts, that is not the case for the amendment of certain texts of the Law on Guarantee of Deposits in the proposed amendments to the Law on State Budget and its update. What do I mean, fellow Members? This is where I'd turn my attention to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. When colleague Slavcho Atanasov raised the issue that there was a change in art. 18, namely, by seizing the functions of the National Assembly as a controlling body, this change has, so to speak, its meaning and logical explanation. On page 1, page 1, 9 The Act for amending the budget and its update provides for a change of art. 4, para. 3 of the Deposit Guarantee Act. But what does the current member say? It reads as follows:........................................................................................................................ lv. Here immediately arises the logical question: what requires the change of art. 4, para. 3? What requires breaking the principles of the Basel Committee on Deposit Guarantee and what requires changing the rules of the game at the last moment, which will most likely lead to an increase in loans that will have to take this Fund from nowhere, namely from the state budget? What does the current proposed change state? The provision of para.1 shall not apply to persons who have acquired the rights of the deposit as a result of the acts carried out and/or communicated to the Quaestors, Liquidators or Syndicates of the deposit in the period of validity of the measure under art. 116, para. 2, p. 2 of the Law on Credit Institutions or after the decision of BNB under Art. 23, para. 1.................................................................................. Except it's not written down, it's everything that happened to KTB. It's a lobbying text! A lobbyist text that serves the interests of a certain group of people. It changes the game. This particular group, if I have to explain it to you more clearly, since I have specifically consulted several bankers and a number of lawyers on this text, this group of people, honourable colleagues, may have, for example, one million deposits in the bank in question. Once someone has introduced them that there will be such a provision in this law, such an amendment, they have informed the Quaestors accordingly that their one million is not only their deposit, it is a deposit to their daughter, their son, their granddaughter, his grandmother, his wife, and at one point the whole 1 million is already guaranteed. That's how it works with this text. However, this leads to the opening of the budget. I asked Mr. Oresharski how much money is there, Mr. Oresharski, at the Deposit Guarantee Fund in May? We didn't get an answer. After all, we still don't know how much money this fund has. In addition, he has various fundraising tools. A final measure is the instrument for obtaining a loan from the state budget. However, this final measure, in order to happen, must happen with a decision of the National Assembly. Strange why the function of the National Assembly is seized and transferred to the Council of Ministers. It is even weirder that in this way we will create another monopoly, because the Fund for Guarantee of Debts is appointed precisely by the Council of Ministers. Then it turned out that the Council of Ministers would decide how much money to be taken as a loan from the budget and finally this same structure would control the spending of these funds. I have no responsibility or obligation to any of the parties present on the left, centre or right political forces. I am responsible only by law and by Constitution to the Bulgarian people. And today I have my duty to protect the interest of the Bulgarian people. It is very easy to say that someone thought about pensioners, another thought about social supplements, and at the same time with such text to enable some funds to be drained. Do you know, honourable Members, for example, how many deposits are guaranteed in this bank, for which we will now have to vote on such a high excessive deficit, which, by the way, is not so dangerous and scary? By initiating an excessive deficit procedure, the most important thing is that other bodies will intervene, which will indicate where the vices are. That's the procedure. Don't scare people. But we can't close our eyes, and I say again, it's weird when the left and the DPS keep quiet on this text. This text, believe me, will be attacked tomorrow in court and it will fall. [[BSP and DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u172	We do not support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u173	That's what's weird about you not supporting him, because here you're playing the game to complete this so sore question: And here I see Koi's hand because someone just inserted this text and I'm sure the Minister of Finance was misled. [[Arrival in the block of DPS and BSP LB. Revelations: "A-a-a-a-a-a."]] That's it! Thank you.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u174	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u175	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Mr. Bajraktarov, the fact that we are involved in the discussion does not give you reason to do these generalizations, although to a large extent I share the content of the speech you have made. I even appeal to you with these arguments to convince your partners from GERB, from the Reformation Block and from the ABB not to support this budget. I give you another argument in the direction you are talking about and you may even comment on it: whether the Finance Minister has been misled again and has not noticed what is written in § 9, item. 1 that the bank can also be sold in parts in general? In fact, the bank in its idea is a set of funds, of assets and liabilities, of various claims, so when you allow the good ones to be separated from the bad ones, it means that the good ones will be acquired again by someone Who, and the bad ones will remain to satisfy all the other ones who are in line. What exactly is this budget? There's about ten or twenty million in it for different departments. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , 50 million, correct, for pensioners and 3 billion for actions in two banks. That is to say, this is a two-bank stake, and there is no other update. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u176	Mr. Stoilov, in addition to delaying the time, you said you were making a line. In the line of content you must express an opinion contrary to speech, and you agreed. You've committed abuse of procedure at the moment, except you've delayed the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u177	I argued that we silently support what you support.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u178	Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, Mr. Mestan was clear and firm. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support this amendment of the budget. If your motives really do have reason, I would urge you and your parliamentary group, with these reasons, not to support the budget amendment as well. If, despite your motives, this happens, it means that you have some other reasons for which you will owe answers to the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Another line? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike the previous two lines, I will make a replica of Mr. Bayraktarov, not a statement. I want to assure you, Mr. Bayraktarov, that you've probably gone astray. [[Laughter and excitement in the block of DPS and BSP LB.]] Otherwise you're right about this text being lobbyist! Heavy lobbying text in the name of the state budget! Because this particular text, by applying it, will become impossible for what you have spoken about to unsponsored deposits to be ceded to other persons up to the amount of the guaranteeed deposit of 196 000 and to damage both the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the State. This text stops this possibility. And if you haven't figured it out, someone must have let you down. So you're absolutely right, you're a heavy lobbying text in the name of the budget!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u182	The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u183	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I am ready at any time to sit down with you and clarify the text and see who is wrong and who is not. The question is that this text should be refined and an answer should be given to what it requires, because in this way formulated the text, as expressed by the specialist from the Ministry of Finance, a woman of whom I did not remember the name, she explained herself that the text is incomprehensible written. If this text remains in this version, personally, I will very much think whether to support it is my personal opinion. But I say again, it's strange the behavior of the DPS and the BSP when it comes to this particular issue. This is not a matter of missions, because the missions are very clear and precisely regulated in the Bulgarian trade legislation and such text cannot stop the sessions. No one can forbid me from selling my claim to anyone I want. So this isn't about the assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u184	The word for speech is Mr. Dimitar Tanev from the parliamentary group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u185	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The Reformation Block will support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. We will support the proposed update not because we want an additional 400 million to be allocated for expenditure to ministries and offices, not because we want additional debt to be made, but because Budget 2014, as planned, is a disaster. A budget in which, for the first time in six years, we have a rescheduled deficit, an excessive deficit of 3.5% of gross domestic product. Today we are faced with a very difficult and difficult choice. On the one hand, we must safeguard fiscal stability, we must not allow a deficit of more than 3%, but, on the other hand, the state must be a correct payer, we must pay tribute to both business and people, so that hundreds and thousands of companies are not forced to go bankrupt at the end of the year. Let's start over in 2015. Let's say why it came to this. Firstly, we believe that there is a strong increase in the revenue side of the budget and this increase is about 1 billion. lv. Whether this is the result of poor planning, incorrect forecasts or conscious increase of revenue, let us draw our own conclusions by reading to you one or two texts of the Report on the implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme, which is a report on 30 July 2013 and adopted by Council Decision No 546 of 12 September 2013. The first text concerns the growth of gross domestic product in 2013. What are the forecasts? For the first half of 2013, there was a 0.3% growth, with a 0.4% growth in the first quarter and a 0.2% decrease in the second quarter. The delay is due to less domestic demand, which was not fully compensated by the positive contribution of the net export. The second text concerns inflation that is expected in the country. The text is as follows: "Basis inflation has fallen to negative values. Since the beginning of 2013 inflation in the country has a clear trend towards decline. At the end of 2012, inflation was measured by a harmonised index of consumer prices, it was 2.8%, with a decrease of 1.2% in June compared to the corresponding month in the previous year and a decrease of 0.8% in the total price level in the first half. In fact, the following conclusions are drawn from these two texts. Firstly, we have a clear tendency to reduce the growth of gross domestic product. The second conclusion is that inflation is actually going into deflation and instead of having an increase, as provided for in the Budget Act, by 1.8%, we are reading today a deflation of 1.1%. It is also the same with regard to the increase in gross domestic product from 1.8% growth, in the revision we have 1,5%. In fact, these are the two parameters that affect the increase in gross domestic product and affect the revenue side of the budget through redistribution through the tax system. What, though, happens a month later? One month after that, the Council of Ministers adopted a Draft Law on the State Budget for 2014. In practice, despite those trends that were clear on 12 September, both in terms of gross domestic product growth and inflation, these optimistic forecasts, which led to their failure to comply with the 2014 budget, are again preserved. In fact, the idea is this: we know that we will not implement them, but let us predict them to have more money for expenditure. Yeah, that's hollow revenue, but the important thing is to make the expenses. I will give an example of the public investment programme. These 500 million, which in one month spent so quickly, so opaque despite so many protests and expert opinions, and all opposed, but they are a fact. In practice, a three-list ticket was allocated several million to various departments. Another solution for maladministration is the adoption of amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. We all know about the additional costs associated with higher remuneration and higher social costs. Yeah, we all want to have more money for the cops, yeah, we all want to have more social benefits, but we just don't do that. No law is passed that is not financially insured. So what we can do as conclusions is this: there is bad planning and there is bad governance. I take this opportunity to call on the finance minister to make an appeal: on condition that we clear Budget 2014 and we will start 2015 without deficits and without unpaid expenditure, we consider it quite realistic that Budget 2015 should be planned so that the budget deficit will be up to 3%. We will do everything we can to make sure that the seat belts are tightened if necessary, costs will be cut, if necessary, reforms will be done, but we have a budget with a deficit of more than 3% cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u186	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Mrs. Svetlana Angelova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u187	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The proposed update of Budget 2014 for the needs of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy requires an additional 50 million. BGN, of which: 5 million lv. are necessary to secure payments to the Employment Agency relating to employment programmes; 28 million lv. For the payment of the social benefits due under the Social Assistance Act, the Family Aid Act for Children and Integration Supplements for Disabilities; 3 million. lv. of that 50 million. are needed for energy support during the 2014-2015 heating season for low income people and 14 million. lv. to support the territorial units of the Agency for Social Assistance. What does this update mean in practice? Two things: first, or that Budget 2014 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is not properly read, that is, someone has not done his job, or second, that those who are the reach of social assistance in 2014 have increased. In both cases, this problem is alarming because if we do not accept today this update, such as the signals from colleagues in the left half of the Chamber, we condemn tens of thousands of socially weak Bulgarian citizens and people with disabilities without income, without monetary assistance and without support from the state. Those in need and at risk Bulgarian citizens, if they do not receive their social benefits and integration supplements, will not be able to pay their bills at the end of the year for electricity, for steam, for water, they will not be able to buy bread and they will not be able to buy medicines, that is, we will automatically condemn them to hunger and misery. If you care about people in disadvantaged social situations, if you really are socially responsible parties, as you plead that you are always in elections, then I beg you, support this budget update and give the chance for disadvantaged people to be able to meet their needs at the end of the year. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u188	- What's the line? I won't. Until now, the last requested wish to speak is Mr. Vladislav Nikolov from GERB. Will other MPs participate in the debate? We're listening, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A BSP colleague mentioned that the budget is covering systemic problems. I would continue this sentence that the current budget update is the first step of this government at the moment to stabilise public finances. This is because this is a well-known update of this budget. We all know how it was through the budget, with what support, how revenue has been raised unreally, we have no reason to talk about the fact that revenue has been increased by two billion. The other thing is that you, ladies and gentlemen of BSP and DPS, represent things in some pink currants, and they are not, and that is why you no longer rule. Instead of taking responsibility for the results of this budget, you continue to use some high-pitched phrases and deny any guilt of your government for the results of the state. I don't want to pay any more attention to you, I don't want to blame you, but I still think you need to take some responsibility, because this government is ten days old and these results are not the result of his actions, rather are the result of your actions, whether revenue has been wrongly predicted, whether all methods and collection tools have been used, that may be what experts will say. You must take your responsibility because I remember in the summer when we made the same update that did not take place, your Minister Chobanov had proposed and you did not support it in spite of it then. Now in the same way you're trying to wash your hands and say that you're not guilty of anything. And how come you're not responsible for this 4.5 billion? We all know what we need them for. We know we need them to support the deposits, the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks. You know that very well and you want to leave these people like this. Therefore, I ask you for responsible behavior.... what you have created, finish it to the end. I don't think you need to hide behind all this talk. One support in the name of the State is needed at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u190	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski of the Group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u191	Madam President, honourable Members! As it became clear, the Reformation bloc will support the update of this budget. Why? Because it's our only option. We have all heard that there are a number of systems important for the functioning of the state that would be experiencing serious financial difficulties, and some of them can literally stop if the budget update is not supported. It is a question of social policy, of healthcare, of the Ministry of Interior, of agriculture. These are all important areas that obviously need our support. Of course, the question is: why did it come to this? Colleagues have already said overvalued revenues, poor planning, lack of reforms, lack of any desire to optimize costs and overall mismanagement. In this sense, indeed, the idea that now the current rulers must pay the bill of those who have gone is a fact because an update of the budget above all means maladministration so far. I would like to say two or three words about the so-called growth fund and the 370 million that I never understood what was spent on. Is there a person in the room who will come out and give me five examples of this 370 million what has been done specifically, what has been built, what is the effect and how many jobs have been created? Because the idea was for these projects to create new jobs, to create lasting economic growth. It was very surprising how you applied. He applied with projects of one, two, top three pages for millions. Excuse me, in my practice I have not seen such unique application procedures for tens of millions of leva. Of course, stopping some of the EU funds is also extremely important. I think it has become clear to everyone that without unblocking the EU funds, I am genuinely happy that it has been unscathed the Environment Programme to expect the turning of the economy, to expect growth is obviously impossible. And finally, the KTB is the cherry on the cake. I never understood how it happened that in this kind state of ours neither government, nor BNB, nor control institutions, nor SANS, nor structures that were called to protect national security did they understand how 4 billion disappeared. lv. What's $4 billion? Lev? The pensions of the pensioners for six months, of all Bulgarian pensioners! I never figured out if there were specific signals, specific data, were they working on what the services responsible for national security were doing? Perhaps the most important thing is to crush political opponents and sometimes our friends to hold them and control them. I want to know from now on, here in this room, will we create such a structure and such a regime of operation that when we talk about national security, we clearly realise that the financial situation of the state and the possibility to evaporate 4 billion. lv. is something extraordinary and of paramount importance. I would sincerely hope that the debate on KTB will not end. I know someone wants us to vote on the budget update, fix things with the Deposit Guarantee Fund, and let it all be forgotten. To disappear some 4 billion, which is three or four budgets of Sofia in three or four years or for example are the medicines of all pensioners in Bulgaria in one year, and in the end there will be no one responsible, or some accountant, some cashier, the management of BNB and all control bodies. I assure you that we of the Reformation Block will raise this topic at least once a month. I assure you that we will insist at all costs that an authorized global company be assigned to take the path of this money and see where the money is. It is obvious that a significant part of them are in different assets, at different points of the world, another significant part of them are moving on various banks all over the world, but in the end the Bulgarian society wants to know how it happened that 5.6% of gross domestic product disappeared and no one found out about it, someone slept it or someone helped it happen. In the final, I would hope that colleagues from opposition groups would support this update, because that is indeed the only possible at this time. No one would want the country to stop functioning, or important systems to remain underfunded in the extremely difficult period ahead of us in winter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u192	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The arguments for the 2014 budget update and, in my opinion, an expression of goodwill and political responsibility have been discussed in a very consistent way, that much of the parties stand for the real need to be updated. However, some political parties only support the idea, but not specifically the proposal for an update, which has been duly made in financial estimates and in financial sections. As has been repeatedly mentioned so far, we have been discussing the subject over the past two weeks, the issue of budget update incorporates in several strategic issues, two of which are the accumulated negative budget balance and relevant to this upcoming increase in public external debt. In the context of these two questions, honourable Members, please bear in mind that the management of the budget deficit is a long-term issue which has a direct impact both in the months until the end of the year and in the draft budget for the next accounting financial year. The management of the budget deficit below the critical minimum is a matter of well-structured and differentiated fiscal policy. It is comforting for me personally that, for 2015, honourable Members, we have many budgetary and financial instruments, the use of which would lead to the regulation of the deficit process. The lack of the budget deficit to exceed 3% puts us in a balanced and long-term stable position in our fiscal policy. In this way, we will avoid macroeconomic turmoil, in social terms, and we would also avoid disruptions in planning for foreign direct investment. The effective management of the budget deficit, respectively, also leads to the effective management of Bulgaria's external debt. Dear colleagues, one of us today asked: in what way is the ordinary person interested in this topic and how does the update of the budget interest him directly? In my opinion, the answer to this question is the following: let us not forget, fellow Members, that the budget update would unlock payments at the internal state level, at the same time the budget update would move payments between the state and the business, would reduce the excessive increase in inter-company indebtedness due to direct unpaid payments arising from the state. The topic is important not only for ministries to take on their extraordinary payments, but for ordinary households, for small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria, which are nearly 90% of the Bulgarian business. Let us think about small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees who expect to work in a better and stable financial and state environment. We of the ABB Parliamentary Group will support the update of the budget for the remaining period of the financial accounting year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u194	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Tasheva. [[Sighs: "E-e-e-e!"]] Colleagues of the left, make way to pass Mrs. Tasheva. I think fatigue is easier to deal with in a sitting position. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u195	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in this avalanche of quoted numbers and feathers the Bulgarian voter could not understand after all why for the remaining month you are looking for 4.5 billion loan. I want to remind you when this idea first came up. The case studies of the Prejusicists cannot hide that there was a deliberate attack to liquidate one bank and assist another. Isn't that right? One bank received liquid aid of over 1 billion. BGN and the other bank was destroyed, including with the direct participation of the Governor of BNB. The 4 billion in question, which, according to Mr. Zelenogorski, has disappeared, is actually the difference between applying an old and new methodology. A new methodology has been applied, right, as a result of which the bank's assets are severely impaired and no one knows and cannot guarantee that if the same methodology is applied to other banks, billions of them will not disappear. I have the feeling that all your speeches, I mean those on the right side, were aimed at creating some psychosis of urgent need for the withdrawal of 4.5 billion. Euros that will bury... [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, I know it's leva now. I would like to remind you that this is the first time you've talked about the withdrawal of billions of loans since your leader and owner, I can say to your party, came back after one sank. [[noise, excitement and speech from GERB]] In a fog eight-day business trip in Washington.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u196	Mrs. Tasheva, stick to the debate we're having right now. It is regarding the update of the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u197	Okay. First among equals, I want to tell you that I stick exactly to the subject. When did you first talk about the fact that the financial system in Bulgaria was unstable? It is difficult for me to imitate, of course, the leader of GERB, but he said that we had gone from disaster to disaster or vice versa, made some difference between the foreign woman and her Bulgarian analogue. There, then there was talk of taking multibillion-dollar loans, which will obviously enslave the next Bulgarian generations. I don't know why we're not talking about this aspect of today's update. You're passing him by in the alleys. Otherwise, there are no grounds for changing a methodology or methodology created specifically to liquidate a bank and cover the traces of some robbery, to make an update of the budget, especially after there is one month left. [[Applause from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u198	Thank you. Ms. Tasheva's lines? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Minister Desislava Taneva has the floor, but previously Minister Vladislav Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u199	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! You are free to express any positions and the Constitution has determined this your right. But please bear in mind, without addressing any of you, for such speculations as I heard a few seconds ago by people who want to protect the national interest, and it states strongly that they want to protect the national interest, to be very cautious, affecting those who can and will be used against the Republic of Bulgaria. I don't blame anyone in a special private interest. Please from the height of your posts, your position as MPs, think that your every word and every action or inaction from this highest forum can and will be used as an argument against the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u200	Minister Desislava Taneva has the floor. [[Reply of the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] What do you want, Mrs. Tasheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u201	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u202	A personal explanation of what? You are not mentioned by name, check the text in the rules. We're listening, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u203	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor, and I will be very brief, with one request to all of you to support the proposed update of the budget, because it is vital for the sector............................. If you will, this call of mine is also understood as an appeal by industry organizations in the sector with which we are in daily contact. I would like to explain very briefly and my colleagues from the previous term in the National Assembly will remember the debate here. I see colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture, with whom we were together, the debate on the 2014 budget for the sector....................................................................... For the first time Bulgarian livestock farmers on a date 16 October do not have national payments. Not only that! For the first time at this time of year, Bulgarian livestock farmers received at least part of the national animal head payments. Adding to the fact that this year is the worst for the sector due to internal factors. I am referring to the disease in the last year, the delayed reaction by the state, if you will, it is our responsibility to pay the benefits. And the external factors are the consequences of the Russian embargo, and the collapse of the prices of their production. The budget update is set at 70 million. lv. The funds for the Fund are vital to the survival of the sector. This whole debate is a bit of a continuation of the debate we had last December for our sector, and the problem that has arisen now is practically planned. Not only do I urge you to support the budget, but I urge you to do so as quickly as possible. We're already at the end of November and prices are falling, milk prices are falling. The benefits for the language are yet to be paid, as of Friday. The estimates for the update of the budget, in the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, also set out the means for the advance payment under the vaccine purchase contract to vaccinate the animals in February of next year and to stop the spread of the disease. Currently, the damage caused by the spread of the disease is nearly 28 thousand sheep and goats. This has happened for the first time on such a scale in recent years. I said I'd be brief. I'm done with this. In general, the total amount of national payments for livestock farmers is around 84 million. lv. In 2014, record low support funds were given to "Fruits and vegetables', so even with 70 million. lv. in the account as funds for the Fund of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the national payments to farmers will not be able to be paid in full, but will be substantial support for the severe situation in which they are located. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u204	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Are there any other MPs who want to do this? I can't see. The debates are closed. Let's move on to the vote. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 with an importer of the Council of Ministers. Vote 206 MPs: 123 against 42, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u205	Thank you. Madam President, I have two procedures. Please, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the deadline for proposals on the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement of the National Health Insurance Fund Act for 2014, No 402-01-2, shall be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u206	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal. Vote 197 MPs: 154 against 36, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u207	My second procedural proposal is on the same grounds. I request that the deadline for proposals on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, No 402-01-5, be also three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u208	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u209	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a reverse offer. There have been serious arguments in plenary that must change the Deposit Guarantee Act, the Court of Auditors Act and a number of other laws. That shouldn't be a three-day deadline. That's why I'm making a reverse offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u210	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's proposal to shorten the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. Vote 201 MPs: 148, against 42, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u211	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! My procedure in the manner of conduct relates to the fact that we could not use the right, we were not given the opportunity to explain the negative vote. And I don't think anything scary happened, that people didn't hear why some of us voted negative, but it's just a little against parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u212	Have you declared a wish?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u213	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You abuse rights. You know that whenever the result is announced and shown in groups, there is an opportunity that wants to say negative vote. I have no obligation to call for a negative vote after each vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u214	I asked, but you gave the floor to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-18.u215	I'm sorry if you gave me a sign and I didn't see you. I'll be more thorough and keep an eye on your desire for negative votes from now on. Tomorrow is a regular meeting, starting at 9:00. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am closing the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
