ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, as you know, today's extraordinary meeting has two points in its programme: 1. First vote on the 2015 National Health Insurance Fund Budget Bill 2. First vote on the 2015 State Social Security Budget Bill Before that, a message. Yesterday, with an I.V. application. No 454-00-656 of 8 December 2014, with a deliberate application Mr. Slavcho Penchev Binev, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, stated that on the basis of art. 22, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3, p. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, resigned for personal reasons and wished to be dismissed as Chairman and Member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Procedure under point (a) of Article 4 (1) We're one. FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Dr. Rumyana Todorova, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, and Mrs. Ganka Avramova, Director of the Directorate of Budget in the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u3	I put the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 165 MPs: 163 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I hope that the Minister is already in the hallway waiting to enter, so I am making a procedural proposal that today's plenary session be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u5	Back-to-back procedure? Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u6	Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! I am making a reverse procedural proposal not to turn the Bulgarian National Television into a parliamentary channel. I think yesterday's viewers have seen enough of meaningless political speeches. Let's not give a stand to people who want to express themselves for the sole purpose of populism, so I'm making a reverse procedural proposal not to broadcast it directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u7	I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Philip Popov for direct broadcast by the National Television and the National Radio of the debate on the program today. Vote 174 MPs: 60 against 51, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Didn't you get a vote, Mr. Popov? Here's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Colleagues in the back failed to exercise their right to vote. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] And I don't see what you're afraid of. Why are you hiding? Why is this debate pointless? [[Strong noise, lines and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u9	Stop it! You're out of procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u10	Is it pointless to accept the budget? So this is the basic bill, the basic laws for 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u11	You're out of the procedure, Mr. Popov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u12	Please don't hide from society, from Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u13	Thank you, your call has been heard, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u14	I know this is Noah's ark of government, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u15	Mr. Popov, I'll take your word for it! You're deviating from the procedure. [[National Representative Philip Popov speaks on off microphones.]] I put forward the proposal for a direct broadcast on the National Radio and National Television at today's plenary session. They voted 178 MPs: 62, against 64, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise, lines and calls from BSP LB.]] Mr. Ermenkov, do you want to share something with the MPs? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] A report by the Committee on Budget and Finance, but before that a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! For just a few days we have witnessed two anti-democratic acts which, according to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are reproached not only because of their content, but because they were committed by people who are representatives of political parties, with the ambition to be contemporary democratic parties. On 7 December 2014, on the Internet, and then on the air of a television broadcast, Mr. Minister of Health said: "There are two new cases of assault and battery of doctors. So much for talking about who had what rights. If someone has chosen to live as a scot, they also have the right to be treated as one. Starting tomorrow, emergency aid teams will enter only after an agreement has been reached with local community opinion leaders on personalized responsibility for the behaviour of the population in question. Whenever possible, and if possible, with the police. With my order, I will remove responsibility for these decisions from regional centers and teams. It will be my responsibility and my deputy's. Please do not expect political correctness from me on this subject! Some Democrat of a more active nature would immediately want to shout out: "Who do you think you are, Mr. Minister?! The demonstration of self-esteem and ambition are they imperial desires? Further on, he continued on a TV show: If I felt powerless, I would have resigned on the day of the beating. Dear Minister, the DPS calls you: tender your resignation [[Applause from DPS]] Not because you're powerless, but because you're strong, strong to insanity and recklessness. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please note this is no illusion for the nicknamed already shining look. [[Applause from DPS.]] See, according to Recommendation NR (97) 20 of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, what is the definition of hate speech: All forms of expression that spread, promote, promote or justify racial, ethnic, religious hatred, xenophobia or similar, based on intolerance, including this leading to aggressive nationalism, ethnicity, discrimination and hostility towards minorities. What is then the unstable speech of the Minister of Humanity in the Bulgarian Government? In our view, it is a vivid embodiment of institutionalized lawlessness and appeal through the word of hatred to demonstrate aggressive and unpardonable treatment of a certain ethnicity, to a particular community of people. [[Applause from DPS.]] Moreover, the minister stigmatized an entire ethnicity. In Bulgaria as a democratic state there is no collective guilt, there is personal guilt. Criminal liability is established by the Bulgarian court. There is a certain democratic procedure and the punishment is the same and it does not depend on the ethnic or religious affiliation of the person concerned. It is ridiculous, in our opinion, the proposal to negotiate with Roma leaders. Based on what principles and rules do they have legitimacy and are responsible to anyone? It is incorrect that the message to the Bulgarian doctor is a direct appeal to run over the Hippocratic oath. Most of the doctors he fatherly calls my doctors, I am sure they will not be proud of it, on the contrary they will be ashamed of it. The other aspect of the topic is political harakiri based on the killer words for democracy. If you do not accept the legal order, Mr. Minister, you have no right to public office, you have no right to make decisions in the interests or to the detriment of society, speaking in this way. When you represent a civilized political power, when you represent a democratic power, you are obliged to speak correctly, you are obliged to exercise political correctness. Otherwise, the bully man, the bully man, the criminal man who attacked a doctor, is not anonymous. He was clearly identified and should be tried for the attack, but his father, his mother, his neighbors, his friends had nothing to do with it and had nothing to do with it. Illegal acts in a democratic state cannot be eliminated with symmetric illegal instruments, also illegal and illegal actions. This is a postulate of modern civilized society, and what is more, this is an axiomatic principle of democracy by definition. Quite another is the civilized way to solve Roma problems, but this is a topic for a completely different discussion. Have we actually thought that someone who has decided to live as a scot may not have decided, may have been forced to live as such, and in an imperative order?! These are undoubtedly more global state topics and they have a larger character, directly related to the integrity of Bulgarian society. Moreover, in this sense, the problem is important for a large part of European countries as well. We sincerely, deeply sympathize with the doctor who has suffered, and we are committed to the pain of humiliation, to the oppressed medical professional, all the more so that I personally worked in the system 20 years ago and I know this tribulation, I know this humiliated dignity, but this is not the way to resolve the problem of emergency care, the problem of Bulgarian healthcare. The way to help radically is by legal order and by law. You can all think of the consensus text from a year ago at least those who were MPs when we adopted the Penal Code in art. 131, para. 1 This punishment shall be likened in transgression to the people who are officials, and the punishment there shall be between 3 and 15 years in prison in such an offence. Mr. Minister, you violated with only three sentences six basic basic norms of Bulgarian democracy. This is, of course, the Constitution of the State. Secondly, this is the Health Act, where in art. 85 writes: "The patient is given health care regardless of his age, gender, origin, language and the Law for Protection against Discrimination in his main art. 4 where all the criteria are listed; the UN Universal Declaration; the Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. There is a text everywhere where it writes:.. Any form of discrimination based on ethnic or social origin is prohibited. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last but not least, you violated the Hippocratic oath. This is the symbolic object, this is the moral act of everyone dedicated to the noblest profession with which the doctor takes the highest place... [[(Replications from the Reformation Block:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u17	Mr. Kardzhaliev, please, I've signaled a time-out.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u18	...in the hierarchy of one single criterion, namely man-loving. You've stripped yourself of this privilege! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u19	Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u20	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u21	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u22	Madam President, I have a request. If we can, in such emotional statements by our colleagues, find a technical solution to reduce the microphone. Otherwise, it feels like Hitler's speech. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u23	Statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u24	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Kardzhaliev, colleagues! I didn't want to continue this topic because we have very important work to do. Well, you repeated Mr. Mestan's statement yesterday. You'd better seal her up for ten minutes. There was no other difference. A little more expressive. But let's get back to the serious problem. A few days ago, a Bulgarian minister said he was telling the truth. And there was a lot of noise. But let's say I do. You said it with very bad and inappropriate words. And twice apologize for that thing I congratulate him on and thank him for. But it was true, and we all know it. And the whole pathetic on the subject can't keep it quiet, and it can't systematically suppress the truth. Truth has no ethnic character, and it has a deep socio-political character. First of all, the problem between doctors from Emergency Aid and many Bulgarian citizens who are uninsured is a significant part of them of Roma origin. The problem is old because there are whole parts of the population in Bulgaria who expect from the Emergency Aid to replace full medical care. And there is a large community of Bulgarian doctors in emergency care who live at the borders of misery for an uneducated person, not for a person who has spent all the stages of medical education. And they're often more nervous and rude than usual. And this is an old conflict that has escalated for years. And Mr. Kardzhaliev, the lawmaking of many of these years was in the hands of the DPS and you were proud that it was in the hands of the DPS. And no bill that can at least solve the problems of emergency care, or health insurance problems, has come out of the DPS. And one more thing. Something really bad said Mr. Moskov. He said the problem could be solved by negotiating with some local leaders. So I will argue politically with him, and you, Mr. Kardzhaliev, said it was ridiculous to negotiate with local Roma leaders. How ridiculous is it to negotiate before elections with local Roma leaders, should I ask you? [[Applause from RB and GERB.]] Is it ridiculous, then, or is carrying a bunch of money not a negotiation, but a pure payment?! The negotiations are before that. Maybe someone else is making these negotiations for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u25	Haskovo, Haskovo!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u26	So negotiating with Roma leaders is ridiculous both in Haskovo and in Varna. And when in Varna instead of you it is people who have been members of other parties, it does not take responsibility at all. And when the results are uploaded from zero to 2000, to 3000, this is not a Haskovo phenomenon and it is not a phenomenon at all in 2014, but the whole Bulgarian transition since you first took power in your hands in 2001. Since then it has started. And who negotiates with local leaders, who encapsulates the Roma in their ghettos, do the Roma really decide to live like scotts, or those who make millions and billions on their backs, force them to live like scotts?! And thank God they don't make it for everyone. And a lot of people get away with that addiction. And we can only take our hat off to them because they do it themselves, not thanks, but despite the ridiculous integration programs from which you steal the money for the Roma. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]] Taking off a hat to those people who manage to fight back, and defending their rights, nothing personal, Mr. Mestan, you'll probably get it, but nothing personal to you in all of this. I have seen other people from your party in the neighborhoods in Varna, not you. But let's come to one more thing and I'll end it. You can give the other five minutes extra to Mr. Mestan for the personal explanation. What's the real problem? Why this pointed pathos after Minister Moskov apologizes? Why has it been since the beginning of this National Assembly that the Reformation bloc and its ministers have been the great thorn in the heel of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? It hurts something, and it doesn't really hurt that Mr. Moskov is a fascist. You can be sure it's not. [[Laughter in DPS.]] Because in the fight against the simple manifestations of Bulgarian fascism in the 40s, Dr. Moskov's relatives were in the camps at the time before 1944 and the subsequent camps after 1944. And he knows very well what he was brought up in. There are two problems. First of all, that thanks to the Reformation Block and its policy you do not have the expected influence on the famous legislation you are talking about. Secondly, on 5 October GERB and the Reformation bloc received the total votes of 120 thousand. Bulgarian Muslims, and you know that very well. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]] And that is why you had to step up to compensate them in the slums, where it was you who isolated, humiliated, corrupted and bribed Bulgarian citizens with your rights. [[(Applause and applause) Bravo! (Applause and cheering in RB and GERB.) People's representative Lutvi Mestan wants the floor.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u27	Mr. Mestan, if you hadn't mentioned it by name, as it was at the moment you asked for a personal explanation, I wouldn't have given you an opportunity to do that. But Mr. Kanev then mentioned you by name and I can't refuse you this procedure. And I was prepared to say no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Here we are 240 people elected MPs. How many Roma MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament? [[Noise in GERB and RB.]] Just two! And do you know which parliamentary group they're in? In the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the party of integrity. The Roma will vote for the DPS because they vote for themselves, for their representatives! With us Roma lead lists, not 9th, 10th, 19th place. [[Replying and shouting in GERB, RB and PF]] . For color, for imitation integration. Write that down! If you, Mr. Kanev, had grown everywhere in the country as much as in Haskovo 12 times compared to the previous parliamentary groups, you would have 150-180 MPs here by 3 million. the voice. But you've only got 290 grand. [[Reply by National Representative Radan Kanev.]] You have a huge problem. There is total asymmetry between your humble parliamentary representation and the enormous power measure that shakes you! [[Applause from DPS.]] You've taken yourself seriously, and that's why you're making these fatal mistakes. It is true that the Minister apologized this morning, but apologize for inappropriate words. No, Mr. Secretary. Your problem is the xenophobic thesis you expressed, not the words. The problem is the thesis. She's xenophobic. That's why yesterday I said xenophobia is not just a privilege on the Patriotic Front!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u29	The weather, Mr. Mestan. Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u30	It is also your privilege! And that's why the Patriotic Front is in today's government because of the way you performed and Mr. Boyko Borisov. And your moral mask was ripped off just because of the Patriotic Front! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. On behalf of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Veselinov. A little bit shifted the subject from the original declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, we are 240 people in this House, but only one of us has the right to distribute the label. In this room we are all chosen with approximately the same number of votes. [[Heckling]] Some, however, have the right to speak as truth from the last instance. Behind each member of parliament are as many voices as any other person I have in mind. In this spirit, it is an extremely unacceptable political force for us, which over the years has proven its destructive action on the Bulgarian society, the movement for rights and freedoms, a political force which, of these 25 years of transition, has probably more than half been in one form or another in government; a political force that, for its own electorate, has done that it holds it in the greatest misery, in the greatest misery. In areas where they constantly parade that they are theirs, people are condemned to unemployment and misery. Nothing has been done in these 25 years for these people. [[Replying and shouting from DPS.]] They keep them in the form of feudalism, they separate them. A political force that parasitizes Roma communities gives out election bonuses, and then forgets about them until the next election when it will give out the next bonuses. This political power to talk about democracy, to talk about some forms of determining the right direction for the development of society is cynicism. That's what we think. Regarding the subject from which this declaration came. We believe that there is indeed a problem of getoisation of certain areas. Indeed, there is the problem of gypsy crime. Indeed, measures must be taken, which is why the Patriotic Front is already making its meetings with the executive representatives for a comprehensive programme to control the processes in these ghettos. I don't think it's so judgmental for a health care minister to take care of [[Elevator bell dings]] , health care, I apologize, to take care of the health and life of its subordinates. In this spirit, to remove topics of statements from the National Assembly stands for us is unacceptable. I wish the gentlemen and ladies of the DPS to take more active care of their constituents so that they do not live in ghettos because, I think, part of the problem of ghettoization of Bulgaria is DPS. [[Applause from PF and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be very brief because indeed the idea of today's parliamentary day was and I hope it continues to be another. In fact, what are we talking about, why all the pathos, beautiful words, labels?! That three days ago, I said I would do everything in my power to ensure the safety of medical teams from Emergency Services. [[Reply from the National Representative Mariana Georgieva.]] What words did I say was a separate matter, and once again, I ask... [[DPS lines.]] Will you listen to me, or should we argue? You'll never hear from me again! [[Reply from DPS.]] Oh, you heard me. Then listen one more time: in what words I have said that we will need the whole society, not only the minister, the whole society to ensure the security of the emergency workers, because they do not work for me, they do not work for the minister, but work for the whole society, is a separate matter. I beg your pardon if anyone has been hurt by specific words. Again I say: I stand behind the meaning of each of these words. What I said was to tell the truth. The truth is, since the beginning of this year, there have been 227 attacks on emergency medical teams. The truth is that three quarters of these attacks happened in the Gypsy neighborhoods. It's my fault for saying that?! And if I don't say it, the problem won't exist?! Oh, yeah? Where did Mr. Kardzhaliev go? There won't be a problem if I don't say it? The problem is that the truth is named?! Let me just say that this is not a concern for the doctors who work there. This is certainly my commitment as their employer. It's the care of the whole society. Because when such a thing happens, a particular doctor, a particular team the next day cannot help each of you, ladies and gentlemen, to every Bulgarian citizen. Other people who felt that they could work in Emergency Aid, help Bulgarian citizens, be the front of this health care will not go to work there because they know that they will be beaten. And against being beaten, they will receive splendid speeches from the platform of parliament on how we should protect the rights. Yes, rights must be respected! However, I represent a right-wing political force and claim that rights in a society go with specific responsibilities. Both rights and responsibilities should be the same for every Bulgarian citizen. I'm sorry Mr. Mestan isn't here. Mr. Kardzhaliev, if someone comes to your home in 225 of the days of the year and beats you like that, just because for some reason he decided that he should beat you up is that a problem? Or does he have a point? [[Heckling]] He's right, isn't he?! Well, if he's right, then I really don't have a base to talk to you. We're on different planes. Because that's what happens to emergency doctors every single day of God's work some team is beaten. And I say again, it's not the minister's problem, the ministry's or the majority's, that two-thirds of these cases are in the Gypsy neighborhoods. What I've said is that wherever there are such incidents, emergency assistance will only go after ensuring the security of the teams. This does not mean that this will only be where you say. On the contrary, the wonderful person from Isperih from that day, who is Bulgarian of origin, who regularly beats on a monthly basis a team of emergency aid by getting drunk, will also be part of these measures. Once again, the fact that two thirds of these things are related to the gypsy neighborhoods is a fact. Call me whatever you want to express that fact. Otherwise, the meaningful conversation is why are we in this state? And that is because, Dr. Ademov, I really respect you and you know that this dispute is not meaningful on your part. In a serious part of these ghetto countries there is no. She is not here today when I am a minister, she has been gone for many, many years, in which you, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS, have the claim, as Mr. Mestan said, to be representatives of the Roma. To represent them in elections is one thing, but to represent their interests, to be their mediator, so that this society is re-entered into the state, in these neighborhoods to step into statehood, it is somehow not your commitment, is it?! This is the commitment of the state, which is something else. You did your job in the election. I'm not going to continue this conversation. The decision again says that this whole dandy is because of the need to take measures for emergency teams to enter the places where they are needed, in the event of security. We will achieve it no matter what labels you stick to me or the majority. Firstly, yesterday, together with the Minister of Interior, we signed an order, with which regional emergency services centres and regional police directorates draw up an action plan, identify the places where there are incidents with such cases. They're clear. Mr. Ademov, I can show you the map in these places. With a clear action plan, police teams will assist in ensuring the security of medical teams. [[Radio in DPS.]] I don't know what's funny, it's not funny to me that 227 happened yesterday with the beaten Bulgarian doctors. I have a meeting with the Association of Health mediators tomorrow. Young people of Roma origin. They will continue this story. I ask both my own political power and you do not condemn me for my desire to continue this conversation with the Board of the Association of Municipalities with which we have a meeting scheduled. Because this is the knowledge of the way local authorities exist. The local authorities, the mayors, are the people who have received the trust, who have entered the hearts of these people, right? They know their problems, they should be able to mediate this process. Last but not least, the so-called opinion leaders "between these communities" I include you, Mr. Mestan, because you said you were their representative. When there's a specific place where in the last year there have been 40 accidents with beaten medics, I don't stigmatize it, it's just stigmatized. Isn't that right, Mr. Kardjaliev?! It's really not about exchanging epithets, it's about overcoming this thing with common action. Common actions, as on the part of people who believe that they can represent this ethnicity publicly with the responsibility of the communities themselves, because the policy in the modern world is related to the participation of a community in its own integration in relation to the laws of the state and to the responsibilities it must assume. Maybe in the name of good tone, I should have stopped here, but since I didn't hear a good tone so far, I'll say this. Mr. Kardzhaliev, it's an honor for the DPS to ask for my resignation. [[Applause from PF and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u35	A personal explanation from Mr. Mestan. I hope there are no other MPs who have been named. This is when you enter into a direct dialogue with the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, if I have to use your expression, the story today is really very important and I think we have different stories, a different understanding of what it means to enter the Roma neighborhoods. You understand it as police squads. Yes, because I heard you this morning also lower:.... it is necessary for the state to take its role in Roma neighborhoods through the police. I think we have a really different understanding of the role of the state. I think that the role of the state is primarily in creating conditions for Roma integration through resources, first of all, the education and then we will not have this sad statistic of 227 attacks on doctors, 170 and several being in Roma neighborhoods. Because we may be talking about greater intensity in certain places of crime, but you need to learn about crime is not an ethnic category. It is a characteristic of the individual. And here's the principle difference between us. In this sense, of course, you will also have a dialogue with local mediators, of course you will also have a dialogue with non-governmental organizations working among the Roma, of course, that dialogue is in the way to overcome those prerequisites that they put in your mouth the expression: "If someone has decided to live like a scot, he will be treated as a scot." For this thesis, I expect your apology to begin a normal conversation and a story about the real problem. [[Replications from the Reformation Block.]] Not for the word, but for the thesis you owe an apology. Thank you. [[National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev wants the floor to explain the negative vote.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u37	Mr. Kardzhaliev, there is a way. [[Reply from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev.]] Several times after you left with a declaration to the Minister, should he have the N-roads when you turned to him to stand on the stand?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u38	He mentioned me seven times.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u39	Be proud of that. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, No 405-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u40	Dear Minister, dear Madam Chairman! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance At a meeting held on 3 December 2014, together with the Committee on Health, Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance; Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance; Petar Moskov, Minister of Health; Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute; Vessela Karaivanova-Nacheva, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute; Rumyana Todorova, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF); Dincho Genev, Governor of NHIF; Director of Departments in the ministries, representatives of the employers' organizations, representatives of the trade unions in Bulgaria, representatives of shared organizations and others. The bill was presented by the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, who pointed out that the bill expresses financial stability, lack of financial reason for tremors in the hospital and hospital care system, which will provide a basis for the implementation of the changes the government provides. 1. Revenues: Revenue and transfers for 2015 are available at a total of 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that Within this amount, health insurance revenues are offered at a rate of 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, of The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and from transfers to health For 2015, a new transfer from the central budget is proposed to cover the deficit of 18 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and from the intended transfer from the Ministry of Health to finance the costs of medicinal products, vaccines and their implementation activities for health activities under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act; for activities for health uninsured persons including: complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance in patients with skin-venerial and psychiatric diseases, intensive treatment; activities under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act; and the amounts under art. 37, para. 6 of the Health Insurance Act 24 million lv. 2. Cost: The costs and transfers of the 2015 bill are estimated at a total of 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that In the framework of the proposed amount of expenditure and transfers, the total amount of 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and to provide transfers to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and of budgetary undertakings which entered into contracts for carrying out medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund are 3 million. 400,000. lv. Of the total amount of expenditure 3 billion The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; for payments on behalf of the transfer from the Ministry of Health under para. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv.; for the acquisition of non-financial assets lv. and for a contingency and From the amount of the current expenditure 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. the most relative share is the cost of health insurance payments, which for 2015 are estimated at a total of 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that This amount shall be allocated by type of health insurance payments as follows: - health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care for 2015. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care of 190 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Health insurance payments for dental aid of 120 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for medical-diagnostic activity - 70 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for home treatment in the territory of the country - 544.2 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy under the conditions of hospital medical care - 175 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for medical devices implemented in the hospital medical activity - 77 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for hospital medical work.. 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the - other health insurance payments for medical care BGN, including for medical assistance, provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems lv. For a reserve, including for unforeseen emergency costs, the 2014 Budget Act approved 279,5 million. BGN, and with the 2015 bill are offered 301,9 million. BGN, or an increase of 22.4 million lv. This amount shall meet the requirements of art. Art. 25, Art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Health Insurance Act. The bill offers transfers to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and of budgetary undertakings which have concluded contracts for the provision of medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015 shall also be at the amount of 3,4 million. lv. For the maintenance of the administrative health insurance activities for the year 2015, it is proposed to spend the amount of 13,2 million. BGN as approved by the Law for 2014 The 2015 Bill proposes amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. During the bill was held a discussion where the President of the Bulgarian Medical Union Dr. Tsvetan Raichinov expressed his support in principle on the bill and recommended the funds for outpatient care to be spent, specialized and medicodiagnostic not to be reduced, and if possible to be increased by 10 percent at the expense of the declared optimization of the costs for medicines and other activities. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Borislav Milanov expressed the opinion that the dental package for the insured persons over 18 years is symbolic and extremely insufficient. Members of the National Assembly raised many questions and expressed their views on the means of hospital assistance referred to the funds for hospital care; the determination of volumes and prices in hospital care; how the project will affect hospital debts; the electronic health card, the information system and others. Minister Moskov gave answers to the questions asked and presented the priorities of the Ministry of Health and Government in the field of health, namely: improvement of activities related to children and mother health; the introduction of medical standard for hospitals, indicators of quality assessment of the activity; creation of an electronic health market and others. The aim is to prepare the project for electronization of healthcare via the electronic health card, i.e. individual identifiers, via the electronic recipe and via the electronic ticket and others. After the discussion, a vote was held with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, No 402-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The report from the Committee on Health will introduce us to her chairman. Tonev. Here you go, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Dr. Todorova, dear colleagues! After Mrs. Stoyanova's presentation, my task is more modest, so I will be shorter, even more so that there is no direct transmission and I can afford it. At its extraordinary meeting held together with the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on 3 December 2014, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, No 402-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health, the Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, representatives of trade union and employers' organizations in the field of health, as well as representatives of minority groups in relation to mentors. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. He introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters laid down in it. In his statement, he noted that the proposed draft budget of the NHIF for 2015 is in line with the possibilities of the macro-financial framework in the context of an economic crisis. The planned revenues and transfers total BGN 3 075 534 000. The proposed amount of the health insurance contribution is 8 percent, with the ratio of the employer's salary and the health insurance person for 2015 being 60:40. The planned costs and transfers total BGN 3 075 534 000, of which BGN 2 695 080 000. they're for health insurance payments. In 2014 an increase in the funds for health insurance payments for primary and specialized outpatient medical care, including for complex dispensary (ambulatory) monitoring of patients with psychiatric and skin diseases, and an increase in hospital care. Changes are envisaged in the name of certain health insurance payments under separate budgetary paragraphs. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, according to the provision of art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act is 10 percent, i.e. BGN 301 898 000. The draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015 has a balanced budget balance. The written opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union is expressed in the attention of the members of the committee, in principle, in support of the bill, and specific proposals for changes between the first and second votes are also mentioned. In the course of the discussion, MPs expressed considerations regarding the increased revenue part of the NHIF budget for the following year, as regards the amount of the health insurance contribution of the persons provided by the State, as well as the lack of measures to overcome the overdebtedness of hospital care establishments. In response, the Minister of Health pointed out that his head office is preparing a package of legislative changes aimed at introducing mechanisms to reduce the debts of medical institutions, as well as the establishment of a regulation governing measures to address other adverse trends. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, No 402-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly on the first vote. Colleagues, I'm going to take the liberty of finally saying a few words about this discussion that was being held here and which at times seemed like a discussion between fans of different football teams. There can be no talk of discrimination against an ethnic minority. This is about something completely different. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u43	No, that's not the opinion of a committee, Professor. Tonev, I'm sorry. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Gorov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u44	No, I said it was a personal opinion regarding law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u45	Within this procedure, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u46	Listen to my sentence! I'm finishing the sentence!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u47	This procedure doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u48	It's discrimination against doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u49	Thank you, Professor. Tonev. Apart from the reports we just heard, according to art. 90, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act should listen to the Minister of Health and the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is hardly anything to add to the reports of the honourable chairmen of the two committees as motives for the submission. I was going to take the floor after hearing the questions and opinions of the people's representation, but as far as the procedure obliges me, Mr President, I will do at this stage of our discussion the following: I will say why, from the point of view of the Ministry of Health, from the point of view of the government importing into the committees and respectively in the National Assembly, this draft budget will give sustainability and for the first time in many years the casata will not be some institution that will generate a hundred, four hundred, five hundred million over-costs. So I'm going to talk about the specific measures we take or plan to take. Measures related to financial stability and forecastability of the system against the background of good health care provision are in several sections. The entire package of legislative changes proposed by the Ministry will be uploaded on Friday to the Ministry for Public Discussion, and according to the procedures of our parliamentary state at the end of February could be a complete package adopted by the National Assembly. Some of the items are also embedded in the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Project, some of them are pure functions which the Minister and the Ministry, of course, in accordance with the guilds can perform and have already performed. I say why we are offering you a budget for which we have the relative guarantee that it will not be red again in the middle of next year, as always so far. With regard to hospitals. Firstly, here we have answered clearly the concerns of the National Health Insurance Fund related to proposals for a change in the standards that the Casa had calculated that it would generate an additional cost of about 130 million. lv. Along with the Doctor's Union, for which I thank you very much, in urgent order all these proposals adopted by the previous team of the Ministry and previous political philosophy at the time of Mr Oresharski's government were reviewed. Again I say, in clear cooperation and with the consent of the Medical Union, so this clearly means that there are no disturbed treatment opportunities for Bulgarian citizens.. one such potential additional cost of the system, which is generated every year only by these things, has been avoided. Second, the amendment of Regulation No 40. These are all the activities the Cashier finances. Of all the proposals relating to new things to be laid down in Regulation No 40, again after negotiations, again in a quick order with the Doctor's Union and with the Cassata's leadership, the minister left only the proposals related to children's and health care there really is not about large amounts, but has a serious impact on society. We are talking about separate procedures related to children with cardiac malformations, about the treatment of mucoscidosis, we are talking about immunoprophylaxis of premature children and children with heart disease. In addition, there is already a working group formed with representatives of the Ministry, of the Cassata and of the Medical Union, within which the working group has serious ambition, but I assure you that it is achievable, in the middle of next year to go to the possibility of making an annex to the National Framework Treaty for 2015. The aim of this working group is to review again all activities related to Regulation No 40 and a serious part of pathology, of the groups of diseases that are currently the responsibility of hospitals to be treated there. This costs a serious amount of additional financial resources, from the point of view of both medical science and global practice, and of financial logic. There is no reason for them to be in hospitals, to be taken out in hospital care, which in any way responds to the meaningful remarks of Dr. Rajinov and Dr. Ademov about the differences between hospital and hospital care. That is, in the middle of the year, I repeat again, in clear agreement with the Medical Union and the Cashier, we will go to the review of the activities and we will draw a certain amount of activities from hospitals in the hospital sphere, because now they have the same activities that in the hospital area the Casata, for some reason pay to say BGN 25 and for the same thing in the hospital pays 600. Last but not least, in terms of what will happen, forecasting the budget, in your proposals for adoption Draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015 there are § 10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, in which, without repeating it all, the possibility of opening new medical institutions with a contract with the Casa and extending the activities of existing medical institutions, again under a contract with the Casa, is as limited as possible. Therefore, those hospitals which have not concluded this contract until 31 December 2014 cannot use public resources from now on. This is the beginning of the story of how the hospital system stops growing and we begin with joint efforts to work on improving the quality of the existing hospital network. Speaking of hospitals, let's say that one of the proposals that the Ministry will then submit to the Council of Ministers as a proposal for a vote from you, it is also a proposal from the Pharmaceutical Union, it is related to the fact that new pharmacies in 2015 can only be found in places where there is no pharmacy available by standard, i.e. in populated places where there is none, or if it is a 24-hour pharmacy, that is to say some additional service where the population is better served. So much for hospitals. With regard to drug policy, where it is one of the great pains. And here with a certain, let's not say pride, let's be cautious in our speech, because we had this discussion a short time ago about the cautious expression, but despite the cautious expression, the objectives must be followed and achieved. The ministry is in an extremely advanced procedure for signing a Framework Agreement with the pharmaceutical industry for sustainable development and financial stability. Both pharmaceutical manufacturers and the Ministry have a clear understanding that things can no longer go on like this. Here I see Dr. Todorova, she is also part of this process of reaching agreement, this means long-term, long-term, predictable and from the point of view of the state resource and the need for Bulgarian citizens to be treated qualitatively and timely with medicines, and in terms of the ability of the pharmaceutical industry to have a clear agreement that says what will be financed, in what volumes years ahead. Let me remind you that this year alone, for oncology drugs, there is a 40% growth rate of 60 million. With such an agreement, which, again, I say, does not affect only next year, but is a different type of philosophy. Many teams of the Ministry and many of the MPs themselves have entered either in support or in war with the pharmaceutical business. It's a business like any other. He needs clear rules that are beneficial to the state, reasonable for the business and provide good drug policy for the Bulgarian citizens, that is, this thing will be achieved. In fact, the measures to contain expenditure begin, pass and are recorded in this agreement, and will be included as obligations under legal changes to both the National Health Insurance Fund and the Council in terms of prices and reimbursement, and to the Ministry and its bodies as medical audit respectively. Whether to stop in detail? You will see these things on Friday on the website of the Ministry, but here we are talking about mandatory concessions negotiations when entering the Positive drug list for mandatory prior statement of the National Health Insurance Fund, i.e. the Solidar Fund for Financial Impact, which will have the entry of a new drug on the positive list. Mandatoryly "before entering the positive list, negotiating certain discounts as quantities and as a price. Mandatory entry of standard risk separation procedures for each European country, i.e. a new molecule entering the market, from which Bulgarian citizens will receive better treatment, will be paid in the first place by the Solidar Fund and the State after achieving the effect that is recorded in the reasons for this molecule being on the market. This is a clear philosophy that works all over the world and it follows a really serious price pressure. All these measures will not actually worsen either the volumes or the quality of the treatment of Bulgarian citizens, especially with medicines concerning expensive diseases, oncology, rheumatology, in the sense expensive medicines, because there is a huge resource. Let me say that at the moment, the measures to reduce the consumption of the Fund for Medicines have been described so far as to describe part of the package of measures to contain further growth are linked again to work already started. Based on a report from the Council for Prices and Reimbursement to the Ministry of Health, a group will be set up to review the entire composition of the so-called Positive Drug List. We will clean up the list from absolutely unnecessary in the opinion of both the guild and the pharmacists and the patient organizations medicines that were already inside and loaded for some reason the casata budget, and we will move on to reimbursement, i.e. to pay drug therapy not on the basis of a particular drug, but on the basis of disease for MKB doctors. This is also an approach that, wherever it is implemented, has led to a clear difference and is actually a progeny policy. Let's say that the results of the work of the Ministry's bodies, the Cassata actually give daily and weekly results. Only from the Council's work on prices and reimbursement of the amounts paid for oncology medicines last year, thanks to the quick work, thanks to the immediate response to achieving somewhere in reference countries at a lower price, the calculations for next year for these same medications at the same volumes show that we will have 20 million lower costs. Some of the molecules come out of patents and so on. So here is the ministry's commitment to provide this committee, how shall I say, an umbrella of political influence, which, let's say, has existed for a very long time, from lobbying. Because the one-month delay in registering the new lower price of a particular drug cost millions of dollars to the Cashier. Isn't that right, Dr. Todorova? This committee is running fast. Again, these are specific figures that I'm talking about. Last but not least, I would say that the ambition of the Ministry's team is up to March 2015 in hospitals, which is related to certain legislative changes for which we will seek your assistance because it is not assistance, but a solution to work an electronic drug market. In other words, Bulgarian hospitals should conduct their medical auctions electronically. This has resulted in a 20% reduction in the cost of hospital care facilities wherever it was introduced. Clear, clear, simple! This also cancels the appeal procedure for these auctions, which hospitals and patients suffer from, cancels the need for companies to maintain huge bank guarantees. In fact, this is how the small and medium-sized business that wants to deal with drug trading in hospitals can enter this market. If I surprise you well, be surprised, but there are about 200 registered companies that can do this activity, but 92.. 93% of the activity is carried out by four companies in Bulgaria. This means that the market is monopolised. Clear e-commerce without the need for massive bank guarantees, without the need to maintain huge offices in each city, which is a resource and is within the power of obviously only large players, will enable the big ones to start acting as small, i.e. to want, to look for the lower price, to seek competitiveness. There are a lot of things we could talk about, but I'm really gonna stop here and be able to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u51	Make it about the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u52	Yeah, all these things are about the budget, and I'm saying that every one of these measures...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u53	Only five minutes after the scheduled time, Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u54	Excuse me, Madam President. I'll have the opportunity. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u55	I don't want to interrupt you, but you will have the opportunity during the debate for 10 minutes are on behalf of the importer to present the bill. On behalf of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Minister! I believe Dr. Moskov was extremely thorough in his exposé. I, as a representative of a financial institution, will say a few figures. If we compare the 2015 Budget Act with the initial 2014 budget, it is more than 252 million. Since I've been in the system of mandatory insurance, this is the first budget with such a big difference of 252 million. I will just remind you that 2014 started with a 100 million larger budget and 110 million deficit. That's against budget laws. Compared to the real implementation for 2014 the budget is around 150 million less. Of course, there is about 100 million deficit in this figure, so if we imagine that we can preserve the system and keep it as it worked this year, we start with about 50 million less. That's arithmetic so far. That's what arithmetic says. I very much hope for the measures that Dr. Moskov is talking about, because only in these measures can this difference be melted and other patterns that are observed in medicine can even be fulfilled. They are observed only in medicine and we cannot pass them. I'll still serve a few numbers. The cancer patients in 2012 were about 24 thousand, in 2013 they were 33 thousand, and in 2014 there were about 42 thousand. One cancer patient with diagnosis, treatment as activity and drug therapy cost the Casa about 8,000. lv. Annually. That is, the growth for oncology only on an annual basis is about 70 million growth that we cannot stop, unfortunately. This money must be guaranteed. Medical devices are about to be negotiated. The law obliges us to start this procedure now that the Law on the Budget of the Cashier is adopted. This is an unknown which we cannot assume either by volume or by prices, because it turns out that there is no institution in Bulgaria that can guide us to the prices of medical devices. According to our preliminary estimates, it will require about 15 million additionally if the Supervisory Board decides to pay them next year. In 2014 as a result of a change of Regulation No 38 "This is the regulation that guarantees the diagnoses on which the Casa pays home treatment has been extended. There are diseases that are in extremely expensive therapy. In this group is psoriasis, this group includes arthritis. There are other diseases ahead if they enter, to cover themselves with this therapy. I'm talking about organic products. If we follow what's going on out there, we'll see exactly the lack of drug policy. Illnesses are not covered with cheaper medicines, but directly jumps on the most expensive product. There's no way the Cashier can resist this kind of policy. Here I would like to thank Dr. Moskov for the really very quick measures he took with regard to medical standards, with regard to Regulation No 40 and everything that is about to happen with regard to medicines. Yeah, there's gonna be a steady growth there, but it can't be 15 or 40%. It could be 5%. This, I hope, will enter into a long-standing, long-term agreement that shows some normal trends and predictions of the budget of the funding institution or institutions, no matter how many they are. I'm just gonna say one more number. In 2012 the medicines for home treatment cost 340 BGN. of a patient, currently they are 393 lv. In 2012, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1.5 million Bulgarians have turned for medicines for home treatment, currently they are 2 million. 300 and about two diagnoses on average per patient is a chronic disease that is treated by compulsory insurance. That is, the impoverishment of the Bulgarians leads to a greater conversion to compulsory insurance. All these are numbers that you will keep in mind when you will make all the changes. I hope they become as fast as possible because I am witnessing that in a few months many millions can go, not to say out of control, but with the inability of the institution to follow them and take concrete measures. The excessive activity in October alone is 48 million. lv. Hospitals. Hospitals reported a peak of 60 million leva a month to date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. I'm opening the debate. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in them to make an application from a place with a high hand, or in writing. Here you go, Dr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u58	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Yesterday we discussed the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 and all the speeches showed that there was no one satisfied with what was given to him in his field. As a representative of health care, the most demonized community in Bulgaria, I dare say that we too cannot be satisfied with what is being given to us. It is a matter of assessment whether these are the opportunities and how much more can be achieved in the area of the budget. Since the state budget has started to go public, the rate of health care from gross domestic product has always revolved somewhere around 4 and some tenths of the percentage. This year is also 4 and a little more percent. What can be ensured with these slightly more than 4% of gross domestic product? It should be borne in mind that these 4% are based on an extremely low gross domestic product, not as 9 per cent of the German or 14 per cent of the American. Unfortunately, when investments are made when medicines and equipment are imported, they are not bought with percentages of gross domestic product, but with real money. During the presentation of the budget of the Health Fund, the Minister said that he guarantees stability. I fully agree with him that this budget can guarantee stability and by the end of the year not to impose annual updates to the Cashier's budget. But here I would add something else: it guarantees a stable stagnation of the system. Unfortunately, it does not allow any development forward, no introduction of new technologies, no introduction of new methodologies. I will give just one example: for 10 years there has been talk of introducing new technologies gammaknife and cyberknife, which does not happen, and colleagues from Turkey and Greece have done business with our patients. This leads to a drain of resources from our country and the Health Insurance Fund. Is there any possibility of additional funding for the health care system? I think there is. According to data from the National Statistical Institute, 2 million. Ninety-five thousand. people are provided health care by the state. This includes children, students and pensioners. I have no record of students, no record of prisoners, no record of mental illness. If they add up, more than 3 million. people are provided with health care from the state. Their insurance is based on 210 BGN, while the state imports 4% of these 210 BGN. I've been looking for an explanation as to why it's on £210. calculate the insurance from the State. I have received many and various answers that often contradict each other, and I have not been able to understand what the truth is. Assuming, however, that the State has assessed that this amount must be provided by those persons. However, no one could explain to me why this amount is being paid 4 per cent, not 8 per cent, as every working person imports his health insurance. A simple calculation, even if the persons are provided on this basis by the State, shows that at 8% of the contribution this is an additional 300 million. lv. Each year to the Health Insurance Fund. The second feather, which, in my opinion, out of tolerance, I do not know what causes it is not used, is the contributions of people who do not provide health care. The numbers are different there. The unions give 800-900 thousand. The guy, he's got a tip that it's $1 million. 200,000. Souls. I don't have the exact data. Maybe the Ministry has it. Adding to that 300 million. lv. and the compulsory health contribution of persons not being provided, this shows that there will already be financial resources for health and innovation, the introduction of new technologies and the development of medical science. In my opinion, it is high time for legislation to change in order to criminalise the non-payment of health contributions. We can immediately get an objection that billions have been drained from the Corporate Commercial Bank, and we're taking on the health contributions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u59	Two million people in jail?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u60	I'm not saying we have to put them in jail, we have to criminalize them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u61	You see a difference?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u62	There's a difference between one and the other. Yes, it is true, KTB is a big problem for the state, but for these cases there is legislation, prosecution and court. I hope they do their job. And for those who do not wish to be provided, there is no such legislation. That doesn't mean they won't be served. On the contrary, anyone who needs medical attention gets it. After that, however, there should be a way to compensate for all medical care contractors. What is now being done with a record of an order is just camouflage stories that have no effect. It's on the revenue side. With regard to the expenditure, it shows that the budget provides some beginnings for reforms in the system. From the exhibition of Mr. Minister and the Governor of NHIF, I have seen that other reform measures have been discussed, which we welcome as a whole. The question is, first of all, that these measures, which are basically restribution measures, should be well measured, because we shouldn't throw away the baby along with the dirty water. Secondly, these reduction measures at this stage are aimed only at health care contractors and, in my opinion, performers and users of health care must have both obligations and rights. It is not normal for users to have only rights but not to have any obligations. What do I mean? There is enough talk about the inverted pyramid in our health care, that instead of paying more attention to prevention, we are loading hospitals and there are taking place, including some of the preventive events. But prevention is not just the responsibility of general practitioners. Prevention should also be the responsibility of the health care providers. General practitioners who do not wish could very easily be forced to undertake their preventive duties. It was enough when we talked a little bit about vaccinations and problems with them, and when the regional health inspection sent checks, the problem of vaccinations suddenly resolved.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u63	Mr. Kuchukov, would you like an extension of the time for the group since the 10 minutes are up?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u64	Yeah. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u65	You have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u66	The point is that, in many countries, the obligations of health-insured persons to carry out regular preventive examinations are clearly indicated and they even go with sanctions when seeking hospital care when they have not fulfilled their obligation. With regard to hospitals, there should also be some differentiation. Yes, there are hospitals that are in hard-to-reach areas that need to be milked by the state and by the Cashier. But hospitals must also have a definition of the activity that must be taken over by them. A hospital cannot reject any activity which does not benefit it financially and does everything in university and district hospitals. Because the required hospitals are there. These are the required hospitals. In other words, there must be a different attitude towards the correct and incorrect performers of hospital care. And the last thing I would like to say is that, under Paragraph 10, there will be a lot of disputes in the Transitional and Final Rules, a lot of discussions. I think some of them will drop out if the mandatory health card comes into effect. In conclusion, the ABB group will support the Health Insurance Fund budget, although we know the many imperfections in it, but it is better to have one bad law than not having any law and fixing it every few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u68	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015 is a major financial instrument for policy implementation. You, Mr. Minister, the importers, say that this bill creates conditions for financial stability, calmness and forecastability in the sector. This is indeed true, given the fact that more money is being allocated in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund next year. That is, at the level of expenditure incurred last year, are the proposals for financing the system next year. You say that with the measures you are proposing, you will reduce the cost of the system. Okay, but at the beginning you are proposing fiscal measures with which the objectives of achieving fiscal results. In our opinion, the biggest problem with this budget is that there are no medical targets. How do you achieve the medical goals you are talking about with the main financial instruments in the healthcare system? You know what the medical targets are. The medical goals, I won't list them all, are: average life expectancy, childhood, perinatal, maternal mortality and so on. All these objectives are not seen as priority funding in the proposed project. That is, there is one big gap between the desire to achieve medical goals and the measures you are proposing. Because all that you are commenting on is measures, but they must lead to achieving some goals. It turns out that they lead to achieving fiscal goals. You claim that with your measures you will reduce the costs in the system and at the beginning of the budget you increase the costs. You know very well that reforms are made not only by financial means. The most serious reforms in Bulgaria are made in a deficit of funds. And that's a fact. Therefore, in our view, we do not see the medical objectives that are supported by financial resources to achieve these objectives. Next, I would like to say a few words about the revenue side of the budget. Last year, compared to 2015, revenue has now been increased on the basis of the two programmes by 220 million and on the basis of implementation of the budget by 150 million. Dear Minister, where will this 150 million more come from? One hundred and fifty million you burden the employers with, burden the insured, burden the self-insured. See what you say in the following text: transfers for health insurance Only 3 million more than last year. That is, when the state is to participate in health insurance, the contribution is 3 million when employers, insured, self-insured persons are to participate, then the contribution must be 150 million. I'm going back to that topic again. Where are you going to get that $150 million? You once said: cutting administrative costs by 400 million, of which 100 million social contributions. A second time in your proposals you say: the employed next year will be increased by 900 people. Remember that figure, 900 people! You rely solely on the growth of the average social security income? Unemployment is planned at the same levels as 11.7. Where will this 150 million come from in excess, Mr. representative of the right-wing thought in the National Assembly? Is that right-wing policy, Minister? To load the business, to load the workers, to load the self-insured, and to make a modest contribution to solving the fiscal goals that you are talking about in this budget? This is the wrong anticonstitution approach. Because the Constitution says: the state, employers and insured, on the basis of shared responsibility, finance health insurance in Bulgaria. Where's the state's involvement? I'm not saying that this is a new phenomenon, it goes on over the years, but you say: we are reformers, we will reform. You're not even saying we're going to reform the system, you're saying we're going to reform the system. Is that how you reform it? With three million state participation and transfer of responsibility to employers, to self-insured and insured persons? If you allow me, with all due respect to the President of the Budget Committee, to enter her vocabulary and tell you that you are thinking with the right hemisphere, she said the right hemisphere thoughts, but you are making left-wing decisions! Loading the business is not the right solution! At the same time you burden the Bulgarian citizens, you burden the insured. It's a right-hand measure. On the one hand, you think with the right hemisphere, on the other, you make left-wing decisions, you burden the business, and that's indisputable! The masks are falling, Minister! Where is the reform approach? [[Single applause from DPS.]] Where are the reforms? Is this the reform to burden the business with 150 million more? Will you be able to collect this revenue? I doubt I'm right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u69	You were always right!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u70	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, with a 6% health contribution, as one iconic representative of the patient organizations said, the health insurance system generated surpluses! The transitional balance was with the famous 1 billion. 400 million.! The insurance contribution is now 8% each year the system generates a deficit! So here you're right. The problem is the rules, the problem is access, the problem is the measures that need to be taken, and I doubt that they can be proposed next year. I hope I'm wrong. The main conclusion is that you define yourself as a right-wing party, only the proposed solutions are far from the right-wing measures. Next, I would like to say a few words regarding the structure of Budget 2015. What you said. Where's the reform approach here? The ratio between hospital and outpatient money is 3:1! Nearly 1 billion. 600 million, along with the so-called transfer balance, is the money that is for hospital care. You know that much of this so-called operational reserve, that 300 million will go to hospital. So the ratio between hospital and outpatient care is 3:1. At least some step, some step you could have taken to help set priorities here. For example, for maternal health care, for children's healthcare, the priorities that I said. Well, stimulate these specialists so they don't get to the expensive hospital aid the famous thesis. Something else is seeing a symbolic increase in money in outpatient care and somewhere for medical-diagnostic activities, even reduced by 5 million. [[GERB's line.]] And one doesn't matter that much. Nearly 800 million. lv. It's total drug money. Out of 3 billion 800 million for medicines and with this 800 million for prescription money, for medicinal products and medical devices all are dissatisfied: doctors because they are forced to ask the sick for money for medical devices, for medicinal products, patients, we are dissatisfied with both the politicians and the Ministry. In other words, there must be some serious changes in this area. And they won't get up with Adhok measures, quick, but they should seek agreement on all these measures. You want control not of quantitative parameters, but of quality parameters perfectly natural, only that you have the wrong controller's addressee. You want the Health Insurance Fund to control, you want their inspectors to control, that is, you want to administer this quality control process! The bread and the knife are in the same hand! You know that the administration in the face of the employees in the Health Insurance Fund is gone, these controllers are gone, you know why, you want them to control quality?! Aren't they going to control it according to the financial resources they have? I mean, there's gonna be a resection. Minister, you, as a representative of the right thought, know very well that the medical profession is free, it should be self-controlled, the medical profession is something different! And here, not the administration, but the rules of good medical practice drawn up by the word, by the Doctor's Union, are the ones that can do the job! Everything else is empty talk. The administration can't control it, and the court doesn't. You know that's where forensics, experts go. In other words, the administration cannot control the perception of it should be self-controlled because, by definition, the medical profession is a free profession. And it's a definite recognition of the right thought I'm going back to it. I understand perfectly that the right political thought cannot exist, generate success without having an enemy named! And you choose us to be your enemy. We're not your enemies, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u71	You?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u72	I'm talking about the political power I represent. I'm no different from her. Therefore, Mr. Minister, listen to some of the expert proposals. But believe me, a great deal of these things have been offered in other configurations of the National Assembly! I haven't been able to impose them. You say, "We come with right-wing intentions, we come with ready-made bills, I will reform the system!" What does it turn out to be? We wait for things to happen next year, only the fiscal effect will appear not with this budget, but eventually with the next. Next, and I have to end up like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u73	The group has plenty of time. 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u74	Thank you, Madam President, for the reminder. The notorious § 10 that has caused trouble over the years. We say this: a new medical facility which has received registration from the Ministry of Health or Medical Institutions, which has obtained the right to carry out new medical activities, cannot enter into contracts with the Casa during the calendar year. Let's see what's happening here now, because the discussion is not one-way! Here again with administrative measures we want to limit the business initiative of Bulgarian citizens! You know what the Constitution says. No one has the right to restrict the business initiative. If I, Mr. Minister, have been granted a license to open a hospital or any medical care facility on 31 December 2014, and you, let's not be you, one of your colleagues, whoever, has been granted a medical license on 1 January 2015, only because we are separated from the New Year's Eve and we are located on both sides of it, on the one with a license from 1 January, you restrict its right! Give at least a grace period to those people who have invested without knowing that you will make such a decision this year will be discriminated against, they will not have the right to enter into a contract with the Health Insurance Fund! And they will win all the cases in court, dear Minister, as they have done. And you will not reduce the costs of the Health Insurance Fund, but increase them because it will be obliged to pay. I know this topic is very delicate, I know I'm on the edge of the discussion. And you know why that is? Because over the years, every one of us who's been in this system thought he could reform the system himself! There's no way that's gonna happen. We've come to that conclusion a long time ago. I'd like to ask you to understand this very well. All these measures require effort in seeking agreement. Without consent, there will be no reforms in this system. And it's not just consent, it's overparty! Because decisions here can't be Adhok and they can't work right away! This is about the horizon of decisions, strategic decisions, not Adhok solutions! Therefore, much of the measures, not to say all of them, are related to exceptional problems for the political parties that implement them, I am talking about incasing a political dividend, and it is negative. Therefore, consent must be sought to share responsibility. Otherwise, it's very difficult not to say impossible. One more thing, because Madame President was kind enough to tell me that we still have a little time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u75	You have plenty of time, Mr. Ademov. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u76	Thank you, Madam President. The notorious volumes and prices. I have always opposed this administrative regulation in all budgets to me. The centralisation of financial resource management in the health care system has been a vicious practice since our time, since when this system was introduced! You, as a resuscitator, know very well that centralizing hemodynamics is a shock state! We're centralizing financial resource management! Let's see how they trigger the measures you propose if we eliminate regulation, because this is regulation! Can we do that? If we take good measures, there will be no need for regulation. That's my opinion. And I end up with this: Minister, I'm going back to the right hemisphere. I don't know why I got involved with her. Do you know why? Because she is responsible for the emotional sphere, and you are an extremely emotional person, so my request is that you do everything possible to put your ego behind you and lean on collective decisions. I am sure that a very small part of colleagues from the GERB Parliamentary Group know about what you are proposing. Seek consent, except in the parliamentary hall, and here. People will help you here, and as far as emotions are concerned, the path from the beautiful and smart messages in your election program to the curse of the sector is very short. I wish you wouldn't go down that road too fast. We will not support this budget. [[Applause from the DPS and from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u77	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, I always say this most sincerely, it has been particularly important and pleasant, both to argue and together to think about certain things with you, because you have the knowledge of these processes that I have neither denied nor will ever deny. And I'm really looking for the cooperation of people like you with experience, with knowledge in the field. For me, at this point in your entire speech, there are some things we can argue about, but the fact that you accept the philosophy of the measures that I have said is enough for me. When you talk about increasing the revenue side of the Cashier's budget you say that this will lead to an additional burden of business, of people and so on. That's not true, you know? Because we are talking about yes, because we are talking not about increasing the contribution, but about extending the basis of the people who are paying this contribution, that is, there is no further increase.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u79	Uh, is 900 people more busy at the base?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u80	I think your representatives quoted the fact that a large number of people are uninsured for some reason of their own. The NRA, by the way, has done a very good job this year. [[Replications of the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] It's not true that the NRA has raised more installments. You're wrong, Mr. Ademov. Right? And she's gonna keep doing it because this budget forecast for the cashier's revenue, it wasn't forced by anyone. It is coherent and accepted by the NRA people themselves, who believe that this is absolutely realisable, that is to say clearly: this is not about additional load of correct payouts to the system, because the contribution remains the same. Here we are talking about that the basis of the people who are legally obliged to pay must and will be extended with the active measures of the NRA, the ministry, I hope, and the people's representation, because I do not think there will be anyone in this room who will support the possibility of some person or groups of people, regardless of what we call them, how nice they are to us and who we represent, not to pay health contributions if they are legally required. I mean, so much about whether that's what's loading the business. There is no way that business can be loaded with something that is originally his obligation by law and he largely respects it. For hospitals, what you said about the amount of hospitals, the amount of beds. You know, hospitals and beds don't heal themselves. If they treated, we would be one of the fantastic countries as a health status, because the number of hospitals is an average 1.6 greater than the average European one, and with the number of beds, things look the same. Both the increase and the increase and the increase in the number of these hospitals over the years, by the way, with similar arguments why we should share the New Year's Eve, whether someone has made an investment, this continues over time, all the time and there is no end. Look, the border was supposed to be set for a year's border period, by you last year, to be able to work now, right? Then let's go to a radical solution that can really affect individual, specific business intentions, but here the question is does the system need, and the system means: do Bulgarian citizens need an additional bed base and additional hospitals for active treatment? The answer through statistics is not and the clear answer to this, if there are areas in Bulgaria that are undervalued infrastructure, insufficient hospital and hospital, will come through what I hope you will vote at the beginning of next year, namely the meaningful version of a compulsory national health card. Because the way it has been cooked so far, there we are talking about the number of beds, the number of hospitals and the number of people who in theory live in a city like Smolyan, and so there could be a few of them. What we are doing at the moment, on the basis of and the district councils that draw up the health cards, and indeed with the assistance, and with the participation, and with the awareness of the entire majority here, I very much hope that not only will the majority participate in this work, is an identification of the clear needs, characteristics and specifics of the disease of the population in a particular area. That's where the need starts, because there are areas where the incidence of pulmonary diseases is very high, but the amount of beds, such clinics, and such hospitals is not enough. It must be examined and validated not administratively, as you said, and I agree with you, but through the clear needs of the people in the appropriate place. This is a process that needs to start now, because if it doesn't start now it won't start next year, Dr. Ademov, I assure you! We're gonna have the same conversation again: Let's go from next year to next year. And it will end with the clear, validated health card, which is linked to the identification of needs. And there's no court or court that can resist that. When you talk about control, we think exactly the same again. Outside of additional functions, which are delegated legislative changes to the Cassata, what is envisaged in the package of measures is joint quality checks, namely, the Medical Audit Service and the Boards of the Doctor's Union. We have an arrangement with these boardes of the Doctor's Union because practices, rules of good medical practice, they are part of the powers of the Doctor's Union both as a development and as control. And so there is now, how can I say, even in certain working order between the Medical Audit Agency and the Boards of the Medical Union, the clarity that wherever the Medical Union can provide its board representatives, of course, these checks will be carried out jointly. A certain algorithm is being developed and this is also not something that contradicts your philosophy and I hope you will accept it. Now, the important question. Do I have time, Madame Chairman? May I have three more minutes, because really what Dr. Ademov said is the really important question. If we are talking about something basically messed up in the way the structure and funding are both happening, and our political talks about health care is that we are talking in a piece. We're talking about separate things. We defend a particular pathology or a particular hospital, or a certain own political philosophy. When we reduce the conversation or upload the conversation to the level of national targets and they really cannot be different from what you and I say: mortality, life expectancy, health, child mortality, perinatal mortality, disability, they are clear indicators because this is the result of whether a health system is good or not, regardless of how much money you put into it or how many hospitals are. If these readings are bad, there's something wrong. Then the goal set in front of all Bulgarian healthcare should be to reach the average European levels of these indicators for the medium term. This means that this vector, which for Bulgaria is directed down, because our indicators, especially in children's diseases, are nightmares compared to the European average, should be examined. It should be clear what are the types and types of pathology that form 90-100% of these amounts and they should be financed adequately with very broad limits, because there is nothing limitless. And, believe me, one of the important things is, let's say, because you don't know, here and with the Chairman of the Health Commission, and Dr. Daritkova and I have discussed these things, this will be the main conversation of the High Medical Council, which will be formed at the end of this or at the beginning of next week. Because this is a new way, based on goals and priorities that arise from these objectives. And you can't see in this budget what I'm telling you is at stake. You will see it as a philosophy and will be offered to you by, of course, your understanding of whether you want this thing to vote on it. This will be put into place as a concept of changes and reforms, and otherwise, in order for this revaluement to happen, in order for this base pack of the Casa to happen, which, with all the power of both the debt and the financial, and of the Solidar Fund, and of the state to be concentrated on the diseases that we are dying on, on which we live in a disease on which our children die, so it takes time to review everything that is at present. And in the morning, I said it, "If a country as poor as ours can afford to pay, let's say not so suffering or affecting this statistic disease more than for a child's heart surgery, this country is wrong! Let's change this together because we have a common philosophy! I didn't see any differences! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u81	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Until now they have made a request for speeches, according to their wishes: Dr. Raynov from BSP LB, Abu Melih from GERB and Sultanka Petrova from the Patriotic Front. Mr. Stanilov is making a request. Mr. Pavlov, too. Mr. Raynov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Dr. Todorova! With the clear awareness that today's debate is completely redundant after yesterday's adoption of the state budget for 2015, part of which is the budget of the NHIF, since yesterday I wonder if we continue to be a parliamentary republic, since Parliament's programme can be rearranged according to the ministers' programme?! But that's another topic. Lawyers say it's okay. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, this is the budget of the status quo. The budget parameters mean the refusal of implementation of reforms in 2015. Repeatedly around the updates of the 2014 Budget, as well as yesterday at the adoption of the state budget, the worsening socio-economic indicators were commented, and all this affects access to health services. How will the challenges of insufficient financial resources be solved, direct payments from citizens, inefficient use of available funds? Unemployment in the country is growing. At the entrance of the health system is found a poor health, demographic state of the population. It decreases and ageing, there is a low birth rate. Dr. Daritkova, I'm talking about all the other colleagues. I know you know things. The relative share of persons over 65 years of age in Bulgaria is over 17%. The deterioration of the demographic structure requires a higher budget for health care. The budget in the NHIF, as we understand, for this year on the basis of cash execution is one, for 2015 is offered lower. In practice, the 2015 budget is also restrictive because of a lack of effective, clear and predictable environment to overcome problems. The health care system, Mr. Minister, has lost people's trust. In the last five years, fundamental changes in funding and in terms of health quality have not been made. In our country, for primary and specialized outpatient care, a very small percentage of the total health care funds is allocated, thus deprived of preventive activity and the funds go to the treatment of late diagnosed diseases. In times of crisis there must also be a fair distribution of healthcare funds. The system must also overcome problems related to territorial disproportions, except the imbalance between primary and hospital aid. Last but not least is the care for human resources in healthcare. I am opening up a clamp. The European Commission criticised Bulgaria for the lack of reform in health care. Brussels insists on improving the quality of health services, increasing transparency, ensuring access to all, as well as affordable drug prices. The release of European funding for the sector for the next programming period depends on the implementation of health reform. Society, as we do, must be aware of the parameters of the commitments that have been made. The alphabetic truth is that every reform, in order to be successful, pursues several main objectives: providing citizens with better opportunities to choose quality health services; more efficient management of increasingly limited financial resources; and a fairer remuneration for health professionals depending on the real contribution of everyone to improving health performance. The Bulgarian society today openly states its assessment of the results of the reforms in the past years in the health sector. The citizens are also dissatisfied and dissatisfied and many of the medical specialists are also dissatisfied. The effectiveness in quotes from the funding model today is measured by many times more investment in public funds for inadequate quality of health services. It is a matter of political will that the problems be clearly defined, that the possible solutions are proposed for professional and public debate and that the political responsibility for the choice be taken. Health reforms in developed countries have a key word and it is a patient. As if in the reform of Bulgarian healthcare this word is forgotten. The problems of Bulgarian healthcare, Mr. Minister, cannot be delayed. Mr. Minister of the Reformation Bloc, with only election promises, tricks and musical greetings on Facebook health reforms are not being made. It is time for you to understand that with only the messages, things will not happen. If you're going to act, act pragmatically. We remember, there was a Prime Minister who had forbidden his ministers to use the word "I will." You all know what I mean. Otherwise, directly under the budget, the revenue section said: heavily increased health insurance contributions from employers working and self-insuring persons with 221 million compared to the 2014 budget and 151 million compared to the expected implementation. Accordingly, the transfer from the state, as previously said, is 3 million. Once again, with these actions, Bulgarian citizens are demotivated to participate in the health system. Once again, I say because it hasn't faded the memory of that 1 billion. 400 million, which were raised by raising the contribution from 6 to 8% in 2009, which were intended precisely for reform for a reform that did not happen. This reminds me very much of the policy, which had another name. "Dyankov Politics" but I hope to be wrong. There are no measures to improve the collection of health contributions and reduce the number of health-insured persons. The cost part, said already, contrary to expectations, the same, even reduced funds for specialized and medical-diagnostic activities. They continue to be disproportionately low in relation to hospital care. There is no emphasis on prevention as a means to prevent the growing number of hospitalizations in recent years. No control and transparency measures have been taken in the distribution of hospital aid. And here, separately, this concerns you, Mr Minister, there are no measures to overcome the debt of hospitals, which are already about 470 million problems, of course, which are not from today, but from the last five years. A problem that cannot be delayed because, Minister, what happened in the financial sector with CCB can also happen in healthcare. At some point, you risk being a general without an army. 470 million debts! I do not comment that there is another hospital that has 120 million obligations. So, Minister, do not overlook this problem, it hangs like a guillotine with terrible power over Bulgarian healthcare. Of course, for another year there is no increase in dental care money. This will in no way stop the teething of the Bulgarian people. The medicines thus determined are insufficient because from 1 January 2015, new medicines are included in the Positive Drug List, which the Cashier is obliged to pay. It's probably going to cost about 30 million. New medical devices are to be negotiated, i.e. activities are to be carried out that will further burden the Fund's scarce budget. Separately, the number of cancer patients increasing and the number of hospitalizations increased and the number of medical devices used. All this proves that with this refusal of reforms, Mr. Minister, from mid-2015 we will be witnessing another update of the NHIF. Finally, Mr. Minister, in order not to appear that we, the opposition, are bad, to congratulate you. Congratulations for keeping the user fee of BGN 1 personally, I hope. for the Bulgarian pensioners, as well as the support of municipal hospitals in remote and difficult regions because, if left to colleagues from GERB, they would have done what they did 2010. To remove them as a result of which we remember closed hospitals, difficult access. Devin, et cetera. These are negative consequences that, believe me, there is no way to compensate with yesterday's Komsomol pathos that, you see, with this budget we will have 300 newborns more. And a word of advice, Minister. This is the second time in this tribune I have addressed to you, to tell you: do not be misled and do not divide society. Before you made it another party, when here, from this tribune, accused Bulgarian doctors of being criminals in white aprons, and in your place sat another minister who was ashamed of doctors. Do not seek another enemy, whether it be ethnic or ebola. Seek supporters for a better health care for all Bulgarian citizens. And quite finally, this is already personal, do not feel obliged to explain everything you will hear from this tribune. I take note of the fact that your party has been waiting too long to come and you need to compensate everything, but remember that the justification is usually a spiral. In the Bulgarian language, this spiral has another term "Svredel" which unfortunately does not lead up, but leads down. Thank you. [[Private applause from RB. The line of Minister Petar Moskov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u83	The line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Raynov, I would like to hear from anyone else a not quite correct thesis. Once again, there is no increase in dental medicine. Let me remind you. This year, compared to 2013, the funds for dentistry were increased by 10 million. lv. From 110 to 120 million. lv. I understand your modesty not to point out what, although as a small step, has been done in previous management, but we owe correctness to both the plenary audience and the Bulgarian public. From 110 to 120 million is an increase of nearly 9%, which was not symbolic at all. The problem is that this year does not continue the policy of increasing the funds for dental medicine, because just from the Minister, I think we heard that there every invested lev in prevention is equal to BGN 20. then for treatment. So we should rather expect between first and second reading to continue this correct policy and not make incorrect findings that there is no increase in funds for another year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u85	Second line? I won't. A hole, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Mr. Mestan, it's my fault. I kept saying the package of activities remains the same. Otherwise, it's a fact. There was a step this year. And let's really see the next step for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u87	To speak, Dr. Abu Melih from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u88	Come on, Doc, you're up!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u89	I'm not a doctor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u90	I've been giving you a degree. I apologize, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u91	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Director of the National Health Insurance Fund! Regarding Bulgarian healthcare, as every year, there is a day when the budget is adopted and many different philosophies begin to emerge on the surface. We're no different this year. And it's my turn. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] Here we go. First for the budget. I'm gonna be willing to vote on the budget, not because there's more or less money. It is whatever the budget is and five leva budget now to vote on the National Health Insurance Fund, every hospital, every doctor in the country will get their money up to a penny, as long as the activity is real and real. Why? Because there is no other alternative to payment in the Republic of Bulgaria. That is to say, the fact that the budget was made close to last year is a good thing. It's not bad. But whether it will be updated or not, it doesn't matter. He'll be updated if he needs it. He won't be updated if he doesn't need it. So much for the budget. Regarding some of the details, I regret that the Minister is currently not here for § 10. Paragraph 10 in the Transitional and Final Provisions suspends as Dr. Ademov said the business initiative. In a nutshell, § 10 says the following: "Every new hospital, no matter how modern it is in 2015, will not work with the Health Insurance Fund. Any old hospital, no matter how much it wants to be modernised, open new wards or new activity, will also not be able to enter into a contract with the Health Insurance Fund. In 2009 I collected 30 thousand signatures against Minister Zhelev from BSP because he had then released the same work, but not in law, but in Ordinance No 18. And that 30,000 signatures I took them to the Ombudsman and was about to enter the Constitutional Court. We were all assured at the time that this would fall in the Constitutional Court. For my sake, my political power has come to power. I informed the leadership of the party and Regulation No 18 was removed. Thanks to this, many new modern hospitals are now working in the territory of the Republic and citizens are enjoying better medical care. This is § 10. Now he's really on edge. If I'm gonna lock up the system to do repairs, it's justified. When you do repairs at home, what do you do? You lock up, they move out, the masters come in, they do the repairs, then you unlock the door again. It doesn't always stay locked. If that is the reason, I am willing to agree and I will vote on it, but I need to know how long the system has been locked up for a year, for two years, to know that this business initiative has not been stopped, but has been postponed. There's a difference between the two. However, if the system is locked only to reduce the entry to the health system, it is the incompetent solution of the same experts who give brains to all ministers. And all the ministers have their heads down just because of those people who give them brains all the time by a variety of political powers. Find out the easiest thing for the administrator what it is? No customers. When you go to the municipality or to a ministry, the person who receives the documents and gives you the entry number for your declaration, request or complaint, wishes to go to work and there will be no one there. That's the presumption of his work. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] But what do smart guys do? They lock the door and the people stand outside. They want to come in and file their papers, but they won't. They don't work. It's the same with § 10. So very carefully! If the minister is listening to me or looking at me right now, I think he has no more than three months to say, "This is the reform, so it will be, and from there to know where we are going, which way we are going, not on the road to stopping the business initiative, but on the real path of development. It's a matter of budget. About our health care. I don't see Dr. Ademov. He mentioned that there was always discontent. We raise the money, give more money, and the performers weren't happy. Dear Members of Parliament, the relationship between the performers of the health service, doctors, nurses and others who are in this area, and the institutions who pay the money, the attitude is one to one, both between the daughter-in-law and the mother-in-law. Those people don't seem to get along. It's supposed to be like that! It's an exception to getting along. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] It's all over the world. This is not only in Bulgaria. This is not our local problem because the National Assembly is not good at it. It's like this everywhere. The one who gets the money wants more, and when he gives the money, he wants less. And basically, life goes on. So what did the smart people do? They have invented this is around the world and there are four systems that manage the framework of health care. Not the details, but the framework of what framework the nation is moving in, the population, the health of the nation. One of them is the Devari-system. It means that all hospitals that perform the service are owned by the State. The payer of the service is also the state. The health tax itself is a tax. In other words, hospitals belong to the state, it pays them, and the contribution is to the client. The citizen is part of the taxes. He's paying for it. It's health care. An example of such a country is England. Do not leave the impression that these are unpopular systems. Yeah, there they are, that's England. There are very few exceptions for example in England where the private sector is developed. That's one of the models. The other is the Bismarck model. What's in there? Insurance. Each one of us makes insurance and goes to treatment wherever he wants. The insurance companies are all private. Private or municipal, it doesn't matter who owns it. The insurance companies, the contractors of the service are all private, there is no state. The state is just a regulator standing in the middle and watching this one not stalling, and the other one too. He's basically trying to balance between them. An example of this is Germany Their name is Health Funds. This is Germany. The other system is the national health insurance system. The name is the same as ours, but it has nothing to do with it. The national health insurance system is that the state is making contributions from the salaries of the percentage, as it is with us now, from all citizens and it pays the performers that are all private. She's the only one paying, nobody else. An example of this is Canada. What happened to this model? For example, Canadians have taken the cost of medicines very seriously, because the source of funding is one. When an honest and honest head of the register comes in and doesn't take a dollar under the table, the prices fall. And the Americans are going to buy medicine from Canada now. [[Radio.]] I'm telling you the truth. There's nothing to hide. We've been chewing on this health care for 15 years. There's another system you pay out of your pocket. Forty countries in the world have this system, mostly Africa. There, if you don't have money, you die pretty much. That's the system. There's no other system. [[Radio.]] Seriously, it's there. In 40 countries, there is this system. What's interesting? Which path do we want to choose? That's what I want to hear from our minister. Because the minister, although right-thinking, will fall into the same trap as the previous ministers. Instead of going down the clear path, the reform highway, the many holes and problems in the system will divert it and will start dealing with small shit that has no long-term effect on the system. I mean, I pick up the phone, and I've got a problem with someone in my area, so come solve it for me. And it consumes the ministerial time to solve the problem, for example, of some MP in Burgas or Varna, or wherever or any private case. Not that it's bad, but it's not the strategy, it's not the framework. My question to the Minister is and I ask for an answer: what framework will we adopt? Which one of these first three? I don't mind any of them. Each one of them has positives, and there are negatives. The best ones, for example, are Bismarck's. That doesn't mean we have to go down this road. However, I would like to hear from the Minister: which healthcare framework will we adopt? If we do not hear this in the National Assembly, there is no reform and do not believe. Everything will be a common tale and solutions to petty problems. First, we need to start from the framework which of the world's recognized systems do we perceive? This is the first question, which, of course, the Minister and all who are experts in Bulgarian health care, economists, mostly economists should participate there. Doctors don't have a job there. Because it's part of the financials. It's part of the money. And doctors are humane people. They don't do money. We need financiers there. [[Radio.]] Their commitment is to count money. That's the first part. From then on, we end up with the first part and the minister says: we will adopt our own framework and model for reform, and we are going this way. The second part is already in direct connection with our Bulgarian reality. We don't have a clear system. We're a mess, just like that, with time and the accumulation of time. A clear answer must be given: what is the future of private hospitals? What is the future of public hospitals? What is the future of municipal hospitals, of all mixed-owned hospitals? That's one. The other thing is, how will the details be managed? This is the second part of the reform. The reform is not only to say: All of this is made somewhere in the world. They just need to send someone to the Ministry and someone else to go around Europe, they'll come back with ready-made models, where people ten or fifteen years of age have introduced them and made the fine setting. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My request is to the Minister, he has our support. Where there is a need for help, the GERB group will always be there. But to go looking at the big picture and not to waste time with the little details, because in this time there is no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u92	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. A line? I won't. Along with the statement request is Mrs. Sultanka Petrova from the group on the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u93	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Ms. Todorova, the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front will support the budget of the Health Fund at first reading, but makes several recommendations. First, it is necessary to select hospital care facilities with which the National Health Insurance Fund makes contracts. The National Health Insurance Fund must control the rules for good medical practice and established medical standards. The control activity of the National Health Insurance Fund shall focus on the quality, volume and scope of medical assistance. One of the most important procedures for the National Health Insurance Fund should be the introduction of an electronic health card for patients and a Single Information System to implement a comprehensive and complete control of the health care provided. Urgent establishment and maintenance of a register for all doctors working with the National Health Insurance Fund; discussion and introduction of a regulation on the number of medical establishments and contracts with which a doctor can work with the Health Insurance Fund; facilitation of the access regime of persons facing certification or certification by Telk or NELK. It is high time, gentlemen, to close the tap for draining the National Health Insurance Fund by ensuring quality control and imposing severe sanctions on infringements. It makes no sense for the National Health Insurance Fund to pay all the debts and not be able to control these costs. As we know, the Medical Audit Executive Agency controls only after signals, which, in our opinion, is insufficient. There should no longer be tolerated established abuses and gross infringements related to the reporting and receipt of funds without a medical activity being carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. - What's the line? I won't. The next person to declare a wish to speak is Mr. Stanilov of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. We're listening, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u95	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here. Tenth year we are discussing the same budget and, of course, the same budget of the Health Insurance Fund Of course, the reason is that there is no economy in Bulgaria. Bulgaria represents, a bit strongly said, an economic desert and we are in constant tightening. That's why my friend Djankov used to say it wasn't a budget, it was a post pizza. If there is an economy, there will be more money for the budget and more money for health care. In my opinion, the main reason is that it requires the most decisive reform and that we all talk about, but never reform happens, that is, the ratio of the funds spent on hospital care and the funds spent on hospital care. At one time they were two-thirds to one-third, now they are three-quarters to one-third, and in fact in all countries where we are noblely envious of their health care system, is the opposite of the money for hospital care is less, and for the hospital is more. That's why our hospital care and for other reasons sucks out the resource, and that's why it can't get anything. Mr. Minister, whose energetic expression of intentions I trust by talking about reforms and reforms and reforms, should now, when discussing the budget and the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, say what reforms will be, because I only hear about reforms, and what reform will be, what will be the result of it in particular, nothing is heard. So there's nothing to discuss with the Health Fund budget. He is what he is, he is what allows the philosophy of the neoliberal economic system to be. He couldn't be better. I would also like to tell you that I did a little digging into the health systems of other countries in their condition, of course, on the information on the Internet, and it turns out that they are also in crisis and that there is no country in which the health system is such that everyone is satisfied. Maybe somewhere Sweden, Denmark, Finland public attitudes there are in favor of health care. They growl everywhere. Even here, Mr. Abu Melih, when he said about the English system, there are doctors complaining, there is no word. Therefore, honourable Members, a budget of the Health Insurance Fund should be approved and all movements in terms of health in this budget, which will tell us: this is what is being done, this is the reform, this will be the result and this is why this is the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Here, this thing we don't see. We see only one repetition of what we have already discussed, seen and so forth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u96	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Pavlov from the Reformation Block. Here you go, Dr. Pavlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Dr. Todorova, somehow the discussion about the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is going in the direction of hospital care, medicines, research, but I would like to stop your attention very briefly, without going into detail, of a major share of medicine, namely this is dental medicine. I guess Minister Moskov, who came out, and Dr. Todorova didn't mention anything about dental medicine in their statements, because as the director of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) has stated repeatedly: I have no problems with dentists. Yes, it is, problems with dentists, Dr. Todorova, you do not have, but there are problems in the package, in the volume, in what 14 years ago we are fighting for. Just for information to colleagues, because I am absolutely convinced that there are a lot of people who do not know what the two packages on which dentists have been working for more than 14 years. We have a package for children up to 18 years of age, which includes one review and 4 manipulations and an adult package, pay attention to adults over 18 years of age, which includes a review and 2 manipulations. Dear colleagues, 14 years after the start of compulsory health insurance there is no change in the proposed dental aid to those patients who are over 18 years of age. Here I will say very briefly that the statistics are not alarming, it is catastrophic because patients between 22 and 25 on average have 2 teeth removed. Notice, patients 60 years old on average have 17 teeth removed. That's why it is good here, all of us together? the Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund, the Bulgarian dental union, to think in the direction of this particular group of patients. Last for statistics, I'd like to tell you that the age limit of total toothless patients is dropping sharply. I can make these questions very detailed for you, but I'm not going to do it today or now. I will support this budget. Of course, colleagues from the Reformation bloc will also support it because we clearly appreciate the complex economic situation in the country. I will support this draft budget because I am sure that in the programme of Minister Moskov, as well as the Ministry of Health, dental health will be in their priorities. Let us, honourable Members, remember that dental health is part of our common health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Pavlov. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, the people representative Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I hope that Mr. Moskov is listening to this debate and this is not an expression of attitude towards the health problems and the adoption of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. As we had this conversation with him during the update of the budget for this year of the Health Insurance Fund and then he made an undertaking with the proposal for Budget 2015 to present us with a comprehensive management programme for reforms in the sector. I am truly disappointed that this engagement of Mr. Moskov was not fulfilled. By the way, this is a commitment, also written in the Programme Declaration, with which the government was created. On the other hand, what are we offered, what does the motives of the proposal for a Casa budget say? Aspiration with the planned financial resources to maintain the achieved level of health insurance services in the country. I mean, nothing new. Since the long-promised reforms and policies in the sector..................................................................................................... This is the only measure recorded in the motives in black and white. Firstly, I can say that this action is quite late and it is a recognition that there is no effective control of expenditure and instead of considering and proposing rules on how to better operate the system, the easiest administrative restriction for it is proposed, which essentially limits the development of medical institutions. Anything else I would expect from a prime minister, a titulus reformer, but not with such administrative measures to begin in the motives of the budget. I had asked Minister Moskov: what is the amount of duties of state and municipal hospitals monthly for this year? From the answer received, I see that by the end of October the debt is over 410 million. lv. It is clear from the answer that 43 hospitals form about 70% of the cost of hospital activity of the Casa. You can also see clearly which hospitals are the ones that generate the most responsibilities. I will give only one fracking example: Hospital St. Marina "Varna," which has 22 million debts, of which 11 million are overdue. Note, from the answer I asked from Mr. Moskov, I see that while having 22 million debts, the hospital has 9 million payment accounts and another 9 million I am rounding up the amounts secured deposit account at KTB. Well, I ask: how is it that on the one hand you have obligations, and on the other hand you have 18 million in payment accounts, and where are the control bodies that should check that? That is why I expected, receiving this response, to see concrete measures for next year to improve the financial management of medical institutions. And instead, what do we see? The policy of the so-called "plan health care" continues, which you have denied so many limits and fixed annual volumes of activity and funds. This is once again a reform policy in healthcare and is one of the reasons why we will not support the proposed budget because the current model of health, which generates constant deficits, remains intact. From now on, it is clear that without measures and reforms to contain expenditure, this budget will form a deficit at the end of the year. We will not support this budget because there are no policies to improve the collection of health contributions, no measures are proposed to reduce the number of uninsured health, again we are only talking about prevention and prevention, but there is no significant more spending on hospital aid. I didn't hear a single word about combating corruption in the health care system. My advice to the Minister is to get acquainted with the report of BORKOR.................................................................................................. Very symbolically, this report was presented publicly in the public under the heading: "Portals for Corruption in Health. " There is an analysis of all measures, of all the rules that favour and favour corruption practices, the order to regulate the prices of medicinal products, the control of the appointment of drug therapy, the conduct of public procurement. Minister Moskov in the Commission, in the update of the 2014 budget of the Casata, promised that next year will be a transformational year for Bulgarian healthcare. Instead, we see as a proposal that it will rather be another missed year for reforms in the sector. Apparently, in the fight against the Ebola virus, with the heavy negotiations he had to lead with colleagues from the Patriotic Front, he didn't have time to sign off on the management program in the sector. Since many colleagues expressed surprise and amazement at his speech about the refusal to emergency aid of the Roma population, I am not surprised by this statement and the violation of basic human values and I would say European values. The Reformation Bloc colleagues in one month were able to replace all their principles and promises, but my advice to Minister Moskov is to address his colleagues from the Haskovo Block to gain experience from them. They showed that the reformist, Euro-Atlantic values of the bloc were very well understood by voters in Haskovo region. There we are witnessing one growth of seven times, so let us draw experience from his colleagues and not remain misunderstood by attacking this community of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u100	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u101	Dear Mr. Boychev, a very interesting thesis. You will not support the budget because it offers more money than the last budget that you supported. Oh, yeah? [[Heckling]] The last budget was dramatically smaller and you supported it. This budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is greater. It provides funding for all your measures that you have introduced. In this budget, this pensioner's share is kept because of this budget. Now what do I know?! From now on, I'm going to Burgas to a retirement club and tell them that one of the levs in the jeep is ours. Oh, yeah? It doesn't make sense. Look, I get it, you're an opposition right now, and you have to presumably stand up and say you're against everything that comes out of this part of the room and you're going to vote against it. It doesn't make sense. Your argument is weak. If it were on another subject, I agree, but here in this case, an equivalent budget is given as last year plus all the updates that have been made. Is there any better than that? The Ministry and the Minister of Finance should be congratulated for this. If I know Vladi Goranov, what a cheapskate he is. [[crowd cheering, laughing at GERB]] I don't know how that money came out. That's it. Look, this is a good start. Here the Minister must take account of whether he will make the reform, what model of reform he will make, which way he will take us, in 10 years' time what health care we will have, and not just like this: I will vote against the budget because it is proposed by you. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense! Get into your functions as a real opposition, make a real argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. Any other lines? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u103	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I was not going to speak, as I hoped that the announcement of a new way of making decisions in the National Assembly would be accepted and there would be no such cheap criticism. Gentlemen on the left, right now your position reminds me of the position Hitler would have had after World War I, discussing why the British government could not cope with the destruction. [[Private applause from GERB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] For the past year and a half in our health care, it's been such a mess that I don't remember myself. I've been in it for about 25 years. It is quite normal, since the Minister should be involved in preparing a budget within no more than twenty-something days after his intervention in this post, to try to stabilize things in some way. At the moment, I cannot understand exactly what is expected of him to propose reforms without discussion, or to obtain a broad political consensus which, of course, takes time. I am very sorry that Mr. Ademov is not here, since I would ask him that question. It is not bad to finally specify exactly what you want, because at the moment BSP and DPS are presenting themselves as saviors in health care, this means that it is like the headless to say blood donor. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u104	Thank you, Dr. Petrov. Any other lines? Here you go, Dr. Pavlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Boychev, at the end of your speech you said that almost Mr. Moskov has banned emergency assistance. I want to tell you that after one day, the injured colleague at Pernik Emergency was working with the mask. I had a conversation with the head of the department and with the colleague and he said he would be at work because he believes exactly the reforms of this minister, who is doing everything possible to make things happen in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u106	Thank you, Dr. Pavlov. Mr. Boychev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Abu Melih is really right. There is no logic that would make us support this budget. I only took the liberty of reminding myself of all that Minister Moskov promised a few weeks ago that this budget would be viewed with a package of reforms, a management programme for health reform. Since I read the papers, I tried to tell you what I saw in them. There is only one measure recorded there, and I commented on it and it is purely administrative After all, we have had one claim that we will see a comprehensive management programme for health reform. Who and how are concerned about health care? We can go back to this conversation and recall everything you've done for him, but I don't think it's going to be helpful at this discussion. Bulgarian citizens are aware of who made health reform impossible, transferring all reserves from the Health Insurance Fund into the national budget and depriving from now on any management of the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry from operational to these funds. To colleague Valentin Pavlov of the Reformation Bloc, I meant Mr. Moskov's statement. My recommendation to him is: obviously in your bloc there are people who are well communicating with the Roma community Apparently he's not doing well with this communication, and they're essentially your constituents, too, so that was my recommendation to Minister Moskov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u108	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. For the next speech there is the popular representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Before I begin my statement on the substance, I just want to tell you that when the DPS talks about gypsy problems, it is a policy when someone points to the problems of the gypsy population, it is xenophobia, so don't worry about political blabbering. Perhaps today, when we are talking about the budget in health care, it is very easy to criticize, to throw out some loud phrases, without, however, someone pointing to you as actually Minister of Health in what real situation you are in. I have bothered to point out the real situation, because I am very surprised how here MPs with 4-5 term internships keep these things to themselves? How is that kept out of the public domain at all? What do I mean? First, you were asked a question: where will you, Minister, find 150 million extra? I will try today to help you, and also to inform Members of the National Assembly. In short, what is the state of the health system? Firstly, the system is heavily bureaucratic and sedated with corruption, which is now a public secret, and is also known to the so-called Euro-Atlantic partners.............. this high level of corruption in the health system. It is clear that, above all, the insurance system is also highly deformed and loaded with non-essential functions. It is clear to everyone that its management is contained. The National Health Insurance Fund, honourable Members, has become from a Health Insurance Fund serving the insured persons, into a body that finances the medical care of the entire population, regardless of its contribution. I ask here these critics from the DPS: how do they help a large proportion of over 500 thousand Roma people to contribute and participate with their contribution to the health insurance system? It is very easy to pretend here as human rights defenders and blame others who are looking for fundamental constitutional obligations to be fulfilled. Because a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria has first duties and then has to benefit from the rights. And when you're inefficient, when you're not involved in public life with your contribution, where would you get the right to benefit from rights? We should note something, dear Minister and honourable Members, that the system is suffering from serious structural problems that we can briefly identify in six key points. These are: First of all, funding the system. Secondly, organization of the system. Third, technological and personnel security. It is a public secret that our hospitals are mostly insecure with modern technology. From this position a huge part of Bulgarian doctors leave the country. Very soon, we will be left with no footage to serve, no medical service at all. What are we talking about today, then, when there are no doctors to take care of this vital service? Fourth, regulatory failure in the healthcare system. Fifth, health system efficiency. Sixth, which may be one of the most important, a lack of transparency. I also talked to you during the Commission and said: the health system is subject to quantitative absorption. Quantitative absorption! However, which does not bring any quality positive changes. In other words, this health care system has been subscribing for years to write, so let's not say the heavier word, drain public funds. What, though, brings all these serious structural problems? And I wonder why no one's commenting on them. Firstly, the result of these structural problems led to the fact that the healthcare system allowed honourable Members and Dear Minister to form a pseudo-market for health services, in which every year between 7 billion and 9 billion are spent. lv. This is money paid by the Bulgarian population in informal ways to obtain a health service. Seven and nine billion leva! I ask: why to this day, there is no state policy that will put at least half of this money into the health care system? [[Applause by National Representative Semir Abu Melih.]] No, not 150 million, 5 billion you would have provided, dear Minister. Naturally, you are a minister of 20 days, and you cannot bear responsibility for this today, but from now on you must carry it. We're moving on. This market, among other things, is not regulated, is not managed, the scarier thing is that it has not even been analyzed so far. In other words, someone left it just like that. I can't help but note that in recent years the number of medical establishments has been unduly increased, which has created conditions, notice, for the over-delivering of medical services and activities which are naturally considered to be the most profitable. I can give you even one quick example. In Sofia, dear Minister, there are six cardiosurgeons. Do you know how many there are in Berlin? Two. How many in Vienna? One. Well, where did this need for six cardiosurgeons come from in Sofia, and who so quickly gave them the opportunity to participate in the draining of public funds through the health insurance system? Of course, I can't help but note that there is still no long-term system for emergency medical care. I welcome your concern to protect every Bulgarian doctor, regardless of whether he is attacked by a gypsy, Armenian, Turk, Bulgarian, anyone. You cannot, when defending a purely professional position, be called xenophobic, whoever you are, this is unacceptable behavior by a political group in the face of the DPS. You can't play around and scare society with ethnic intolerance. I have grown up between Muslims and I can tell you that people understand each other splendidly and Christians and Muslims and whatever they are. This division is based on a political principle in order to create ghettos that naturally generate what? ..in the first place....in the first place. Because there are practically no medical services. There's nothing to stick our heads in! She's all over this doctor that she went out in the middle of the night to save a man's life. And did anyone ask the question after she was beaten up, how many other patients couldn't help this doctor? Today, the system, as I have already said, is subject to quantitative indicators which, however, do not lead to quality such changes. I cannot resist not saying that in recent years there has been a lasting tendency to increase the amount of compensation from hospital. Now, notice what the stakes indicate, especially when a civil servant has to be dismissed from office. Then all of a sudden, this civil servant is permanently ill. And perishable. I will give you an example with the director of the Regional Health Inspectorate in Burgas. As soon as a discharge order was issued, he got sick with a bad knee. After a few months he went through some other types of diseases and, notice, finally finished with a heart attack or stroke one of them was, by memory. Except all these hospital papers are issued by medical committees. I ask you, Dear Minister, perhaps some colleagues have not even heard of this regulation, but I will give you a hint: when will the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, Mrs. Todorova, finally begin to apply the Regulation for health expertise? It accurately and clearly states when a hospital is invalid, under what conditions and that the benefit should repay them with interest. Do you know how much money you would have returned to the Health Insurance Fund if this regulation was applied? Not to tell you that a huge part of the hospital, notice, is being taken to go on vacation abroad. Immediately, at this time, he is already a breach of this regulation and must recover the money with interest. Who's gonna do that check? Of course we'd better pay. Who's paying? All of us! It is very easy to comment here on things that are problems that have accumulated over the years. Here's a control mechanism for you. Except I don't have that jurisdiction to carry out that control. But I have the right to give you a hint and insist that you start carrying it out. It is very easy to check through the relevant services when such a sick person has violated the outpatient treatment regime and instead of being at home and being treated he is, for example, in Dubai or I do not know where he is. It's very easy, no problem, literally 15 minutes is fine. Dear Minister, I welcome your first steps in creating a drug exchange, giving yourself a clear idea as a financier that such an exchange will naturally be threatened by its vices, first of all by what is called a cartel or negotiation. Naturally, we will do everything we can to prevent this, but this is the first real effective step in years. Personally, I, and the Patriot Front, will support you so that the electronic health card can finally be introduced. This electronic health card, first of all, enables the patient himself to carry out control, which is most important. Naturally, we have our remarks, because there is no way to note that when the system is strongly contained, it can be very difficult to reform. In other words, this monopoly must finally be broken down. If they don't create conditions for competition, and I say this not as a doctor, but as an economist, I say it as a financier, if they don't create conditions for competition, if the monopoly called the Healthier Insurance Fund breaks down, we will always tread down in one place, honourable colleagues. This is my appeal to all MPs because it can only be done with legislative change. But I hope it will be initiated by you as well. [[to the Minister]] Because very soon you'll understand that what I'm saying is exactly right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u110	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u112	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. It's 1:05 p.m. I'm interrupting the meeting and calling a 30-minute recess at 13.35 p.m. Then Mrs. Maya Manolova and Dr. Kiril Dobrev will have the floor. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our discussions. The next statement was made by Dr. Kiril Dobrev. Here you go, Dr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, I believe that in this financial situation of the state, the overall budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is decent and that is why I will vote for it. I believe that what we must do from now on is care for the right and rational spending of the funds, without distractions and without financial violations. I will stress again after my colleague from Pernik that we remain debtors of dental assistance. The package for dental assistance in the budget remains within the narrow range of 120 million. BGN, as the most damaged people over 18 years of age are. I sincerely hope that this package will be increased in the near future and will cover more activities of patients in need with dental problems. I admire the management of the Ministry of Health part of the beds for active treatment of state hospitals, where the minister is a principal, to transform into rehabilitation beds, i.e. beds for long-term post-active treatment. This will lead to less spending in hospitals for active treatment. Since there have also been speeches and discussions in the Committee on Health, I would like to remind the MPs who are not medics that adults can very rarely be completely cured, unlike children and unlike the disease of acute viral infections and bacterial infections. The aim is to stabilize the health of a patient in hospitals and active treatment beds, and then have a longer period of rehabilitation and healing. This is the specifics of the pathology of adulthood. Most of the diseases at this age are chronic and final cure is not possible, but there is maintaining a balanced state of health. I also admire the intention, after the first half of next year, to transfer activities from hospital care to hospital care, reminding again that this is a balance of docked vessels. In order to have effectiveness in diagnosis and treatment, we must not damage one area of activity at the expense of the other sphere. In order for there to be a really effective opportunity to transfer activities from the hospital to the hospital aid, there must also be further development of the structures in the hospital aid, and to finance some of the activities in the hospital aid. Otherwise, we'll damage the patients. I find it logical to control the level of investment intent in terms of revealing new healing structures and pharmacies. This is necessary and in any case will be done by binding to the real health card, which is to be published. I would also like to express my support on one of those of my colleague Dr. Hasan Ademov that changes in the field of health need to be done with broad consensus. We have been talking for several years on this topic and I hope that in the near future we will find this objective consensus on the main directions for development in the field of health in the next 15 years, so that we know the direction and the basic principles and directions of development, no matter what the government is and no matter who the minister who will lead the ministry. So: I congratulate in my intentions, in my operationality, in my energeticity the team of the Ministry of Health, the team of the National Health Insurance Fund and will ask my colleagues to support this budget of the Casa, which includes the budget of last year plus the two updates we made during this period of time. This is the optimal budget for this economic situation of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u115	Thank you, Dr. Dobrev. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word of the People's Representative Maya Manolova. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! As we all know, we have a reforming government in our hands. We know it mostly because we hear it every day. It is repeated: "There will be serious reforms in energy, in education, in health care, in administration, in justice and one of the most active speakers on the topic of health care. Although we have not yet seen a reform strategy or its management program in the sector, we have listened to it regularly from various television studios, throws topics, priorities, explains policies, often not particularly cautious, as has been said today. Fortunately, we now have a document, which, according to many, is a key tool for the reform of health care, both the National Health Insurance Fund and the State Budget in part............................ and we hope in this budget to see reform, to see it dressed in numbers and in policies, in specific texts of this bill. However, honourable Members, Mr Minister, the reform is absent, the reform lacks in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Because the numbers are the same as last year's budget, plus updates. Even 80 million. less. And something that is even more important and the texts of the paragraphs are the same, one to one, without the former team of the Health Ministry claiming to be a great reformer. There is, of course, an exception in the § 10 in question in respect of which I will allow myself to be even sharper than the honourable Dr. Hassan Ademov, because this text is not on edge. This text is over the edge. In practice, it will deprive a number of hospitals of the opportunities to work with the Health Insurance Fund and to open new wards of them. I'll set a specific example. The state hospital in Vidin, or rather your hospital, as you express yourself, although it has purchased the appropriate technique, will not be able to detect invasive cardiology, because the ward will be fully ready at the beginning of January. For example, your hospital in Kyustendil will not be able to detect invasive cardiology, although it prepares for this with the purchase of appropriate equipment and then I will have to explain to my constituents why your hospital with your texts cannot improve the health care it offers them. We have heard from this tribune since the beginning of this debate you once again explain the reform. You did, in my opinion, quite lightly and lightly, because your statement was full of contradictions. What did you say? In the middle of next year you will change the National Framework Treaty concluded between the Medical Union and the Health Insurance Fund. I'm sorry, you're not a party to this contract at all. What is more, you have not signed a contract for next year, and you will change it already. You also said something else. You will take out activities in the middle of next year from hospital care in the outpatient. Sorry, there's no money for that. The hospital aid is now underfunded. How will you transfer activities without connecting them to specific numbers? In fact, you seem to be most prepared in the field of emergency care, of emergency care reform. And we saw how you started it in the Roma neighborhoods with the refusal to send ambulances. Then you corrected yourself by explaining that you were going to send cops with them. However, as it turned out, there are problems with the attacks on doctors not only in Roma neighborhoods, there are also in Pernik, there are also in the center of Sofia, there are also in Botunets, there are also in Pirogov. Milanov. Excuse me, are you going to find at the Pirogov Police Department? And if you don't find the police department, you'll refuse to treat Roma? I really don't understand your ideas. I even less understand them the moment you jump from health reform to justice. You have already replaced law enforcement with Roma leaders, with Roma barons. The way you're going, you'll soon replace the justice system with the Roma mesher. [[Radio.]] First deal with health reform and then start with ideas in judicial reform. Here I would like to make you a recommendation: very please do your homework, come with a prepared management program for health reform, as you promised. Don't tell us it's on your website, because other than a few draft regulations, there's not a single bill there. Come prepared, do it in time, because as it goes, you will not be a minister until the end of your term. [[Radio.]] They've already asked for your resignation. And there is also a prepared shot of Mr. Slavi Binev because, as we heard, his party, the Patriotic Front does not differ particularly in its views on Roma neighborhoods from you and the Reformation bloc. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u118	How could there not be?! Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u119	For your statement, Dr. Kovatchka, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u120	I have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u121	We went through the lines and the back. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Allow me, after this big debate, which was received to discuss the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, to present the reasons, priorities and opinions of the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, which we believe are important and which reflect our opinion on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The sector is facing a serious challenge of the ongoing economic crisis and the need to implement decisive reforms in the system, which, however, must preserve the meaning of the social model in healthcare. The main objective of the Ministry of Health and the NHIF should be to speed up health reform, adequate legislative support for this process and find an effective regulatory mechanism to control public expenditure in healthcare. Our agenda for work must change legislation to improve the management of the health system by introducing new technologies and e-health, to achieve maximum efficiency. One of the priorities must be to streamline the management of hospitals and reduce their costs. The attention of all participants in the management of the health sector must be fully focused on achieving good coordination between emergency care, outpatient and hospital care, of integrated health care, an essential part of modern health care. Health promotion and disease prevention must find a new dimension and our help to shift resources into public health. Health reform in Bulgaria is a necessity. It is determined by the poor health performance of the population, the subjective feeling of discontent among consumers and contractors and the inappropriate costs of public resources in health, which also leads to the economic failure of the system. One of the priorities of health reform should be legislative changes in drug policy to ensure a real lowering of the prices of medicinal products and compliance with the recommendations for extended use of generics in Bulgaria. One of the problems that we have to deal with is health insecure. I would divide this group into two because there are healthly uninsured individuals who have a financial opportunity to provide and exclude themselves from the system. Here the mechanisms must be strict and specific sanctions must be considered. The other group are people who really do not have the opportunity to pay their health insurance, and there must be a clear health legislation here that makes it clear how these patients will be paid. The team of the Ministry of Health needs to update Regulation No 40 quickly, which contains the activities covered by the NHIF and to assess which part of these activities can be taken out in extra-hospital aid within a short period of time, as Minister Moskov said it would happen by mid-2015. The introduction of the electronic recipe, the electronic file and the electronic ticket will reduce costs and increase extremely much control when spending funds in the system. Dear Dr. Moskov, honourable colleagues, I hope that this is the last time we discuss a budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health without e-health. Given Minister Moskov's ambitious strategy for rapid changes beginning with the adoption of a concept for the development of emergency aid, the expected additional funding from European funding for emergency aid and the identified changes for the restructuring of medical institutions, we believe that a periodic analysis and assessment of the effect of the changes made and the funds spent on this is necessary. The NHIF budget is updated annually, but changes in the methodology for the allocation of estimated volumes of medical institutions and drug policy funds are not optimised. Financial resources are needed for quality health care. We know that the health contribution is 8%.. 60:40. There's not enough money. It is expected in the new budget to increase the revenue from the increase in the minimum wage and the increase in maximum social income. But that wouldn't be enough to cover the revenue side of the budget. It is necessary to do a full analysis and a photo of the National Health Insurance Fund for all its sectors and feathers at the moment. And when changes are required in its individual sectors before they are made, regardless of the different lobbies that exist, both government and non-governmental organizations, the effect on the medical activity must first be taken into account. I refer to its quality, and the effect on the financial stability of the National Health Insurance Fund. Changes in outpatient care, hospital care and drug policy are needed. I will allow myself to announce something that the speakers before me have announced about the opinions of our thinking organizations because they express the views of our colleagues who are on the front front and actually perform the medical service. According to data from the Bulgarian dental union, in the opinion they write to the Health Commission, it is noted that there is a deepening tendency to reduce the budget for dental activities compared to health insurance payments from 9% in 2000 to 4.45% in 2015. On 1 December, measures were given by the Press Centre of the National Health Insurance Fund to optimize its activities. Given the measures proposed by the Health Insurance Fund and the reforms proposed by Dr. Moskov the Minister of Health, the Bulgarian Democratic Centre believes that it should give a credit for trust to carry out healthcare reforms. Despite the conditions of crisis, the reform does not always mean a lot of financial resources, because in carrying out a reform we have a shift of funds and participation in European programmes for additional external funding. It is clear that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is insufficient. No matter how much money it is, it will always be insufficient because if we want to have quality European health care in Bulgaria, money is needed for this. The rational arguments in support of the budget are not many. Even less are those who would match the expectations of fellow doctors and patients to improve the level of Bulgarian healthcare. If this budget is implemented, like the one in 2014. Without reforms, there will be a growing doubt in Bulgarian citizens that their money for health does not go according to purpose. The demotivation of Bulgarian medical personnel will continue to grow to stay to treat in Bulgaria. In conclusion, I would like to share, honourable Members, Mr Minister, that there are indeed changes in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, and there is an increase in the funds that are for vaccines; the funds for psychiatric aid; an increase, albeit a little, for hospital care, outpatient and specialized outpatient care. But there is a reduction in the clauses that concern the treatment of cancer patients, I suppose, concerns the conduct of chemotherapy in these patients. And perhaps this reduction of 10 million, at least I think so, and I hope it will be so, are the changes in drug policy from which funds will be saved, and in fact in Bulgaria the percentage of generic medicines will get closer to at least half of the one that is in European countries, and not now a poor country is using expensive medicines for a limited number of patients. I appeal to those who are in charge between the first and second readings of the budget, if there are honourable Members, honourable managers, even a minimum opportunity, as far as possible, for some of the budget items to be corrected, let this be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kovachka. - What's the line? I won't. Assoc. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u124	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! So far, only political lattes, as we have been politicizing something that is out-of-party every day, and that is healthcare. Of course, there is a lot of experience from both DPS and BSP, both from the right side, and from GERB, and from us what should be done as healthcare reforms. Firstly, I appeal for a little respect to the Minister for having undertaken to make reforms in time, and without the means. Knowing that there is no money for health care, we need to find the optimal option. That some colleagues who come out here feel the need for resuscitation in order not to forget a colleague who left the room just now spoke, precisely in order not to be forgotten and to be resuscitated, I appeal to talk specifically about what we propose to happen. There are several things that we have commented on in the debates before the elections and all of us, as doctors who commented on these things, have come to the conclusion that the reforms and the money that can be provided for healthcare will start from now on. The first thing I said once, I said it a second time, a service contract for all the doctors who work in our country. In this way, two good things will happen for the medical community. First, the demands of employers will be raised to increase the salaries of doctors. The second thing will automatically close half of the so-called fictional hospitals who are constantly trying to accumulate dividends from the so-called "delegated budget" which is provided by the Casata. This way in which the Cashier is drained is the best way is precisely the delegated budget. So a service contract. Next thing you know, dropping delegated budgets and paying according to the job done. The third thing that has to happen is, and that we have to make it clear that issuing permits for new hospitals should be done according to the needs of the health card and not otherwise. If there wasn't so much cedar, why are there new documents filed for new hospitals, and why are you reacting so strongly that hospitals should be shut down? Well, the sharp response to hospital closures is that there's a lot of you standing here in the room, you have some interest in not closing these private hospitals. And the people in the settlements know very well who these hospitals are who work for certain politicians. There's a way to find that money. And we have commented on how this money can be found. If we do this thing and do it in the Health Commission first, we will help the Minister of Health carry out the reforms, he is still only a few weeks old, so I appeal to speak not as politically as to offer something with which to find money and start doing reforms, because we are going to get stuck in another gaffe that we are going to do in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u125	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u126	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I'll be very brief. I have had the patience and opportunity to listen, colleagues, your speeches, and I will begin by saying that healthcare is a mirror of the economy of a country. I ask: what economy did we find and therefore what can we expect from healthcare? [[Noise and lines on the left.]] I see ironic smiles. Here, at the moment were used the words of the status quo, quote. Well, gentlemen, when an economy, such as Bulgaria's economy, is left in such a difficult state, I ask: is a better budget possible for healthcare? Yes, some populists would say yes, only a few times ago here they tried to explain to us how the right hemisphere guides the left part of the body, I won't say, I'm smiling, I want to explain that right now the only possible budget for the Health Insurance Fund is made and presented to your attention. I would like to point out, in order not to be naked, that here most of the speeches are political, and I would like to focus on a few moments, namely, in healthcare, payments for primary medical care have been increased by nearly 2 million. That was missed. I would like to remind some that health insurance payments for specialized outpatient care have also been increased. I mean, the money for the 400,000 vaccines right now is a million and 290. I can tell you a lot more facts that have been recorded that have been missed to be mentioned. I would like to draw attention to an element of improving governance, hence also to fund-saving the introduction of e-health, for which I am extremely happy and welcome the Minister of Health, because with the introduction of the e-health card, with the introduction of the e-recipe, with the introduction of the e-file, I think it will free up resources for the first year. I can tell you that when this management model has been introduced in Italy, for the first year, 18% of the budget has been savings. In the following year, when this model is developed, these reductions in funds will be increased. So I would turn to the Minister and tell him that I welcome this. It is a very important, secure and stable step in our healthcare reform, because only through the introduction of eHealth, with the optimization of governance can a lot of money be saved, Minister. Moreover, when we start with the reviews in the primary care with the doctor, we go through the prescriptions and speculation with the recipes, and here I will also open a clamp, as we will then look at the other bill, with the electronic recipes, with the electronic hospital all frauds and speculations that are being carried out will be able to be stopped. In order not to spread out, I would like to point out a few more moments, namely for the cancer patients, that with less money, which I don't think has been noted here, with less money and the use of generics will be able to cover much more cancer patients. I would like to address everyone: I know that every one of those present will do what his political party has ordered, but I am addressing you to respect the economic situation of the state, and as I have started, so I will conclude that at the moment the economic situation of the state gives us the opportunity to afford precisely these funds for the Health Insurance Fund, as well as for the health budget of the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Let's just get this over with. There's no lines, there's no dentures. There's a demand for a statement from a group. Here you go, Mr. Mikov. [[Noise and lines.]] It's off the books, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u128	The topic is beyond today's agenda points.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u129	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u130	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! BSP left Bulgaria did not support the Budget Act for 2015, adopted yesterday in the dark with the votes of the right sector and ABB. We did not support it because the government proposed a policy of financial stability, financial consolidation with a price of 1 billion interest per year, with cuts leading to an increase in unemployment, because financial stability as an objective cannot be supported by us because debt with this budget leads to an increase of about 5 years three times, and if in 2009. This budget relies on savings from the lowest income groups, from the poor working groups, 270 thousand people with minimum wage and the hundreds of thousands seasonally employed; because they are deprived of the right to recover these 408 BGN. Annual income taxes. It is about the poorest families who do not buy caviar and champagne, but for which this is during the year providing bread literally, not in the transmission sense, for the family. We did not support this budget because it freezes child support, twins, disabled children, freezes the level of food vouchers for workers, first graders, freezes child benefit, mothers-students, unemployment benefits. A total of 14 social payments are frozen. And although Dyankov is far from Bulgaria, the budget is moving in the understanding of Dyankov for financial stability. Yesterday, some MPs took the liberty of saying that it was intended to raze the junk from the previous government. And we have to ask who this shit is? Are these the mothers, the children with disabilities, the workers of the poor? Is this what you want to remove? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Or the disabled with a social pension that seemed very much to you that a quarter of the social pension was due to them?! It's about five or six thousand people a year. Or with the approach to increasing the provision of farmers by 65 BGN. per month, or £780. A year? And because most of these farmers process up to 10 decares, they are raw, adding the tax relief that is taken away from them, with approximated leva. Annually. At some point, it may turn out that they do not need to seek European subsidies, because the state will try to collect them more than they produce. The funds for energy aid promised by the ruling formation are not estimated in the budget. The promise of these 500 000 families, who are the hardest to bear the increased prices of electricity. And all this against the backdrop of minimal economic growth, twice the economic growth in the third quarter of this year, when there was political instability when the country was entering elections. Now that the world and Europe are in growth, today's governance of the quadruple coalition envisions a double reduction in the forecast for economic growth, which is in fact a recognition of the inability of the state, the government, the majority to provide such growth to the country, which will give better revenue in the budget. In other ways, things also looked like the unwinnable South Stream, ladies and gentlemen, which you have played. Although you had promised that if GERB won the elections, November would start. It will start, but not in Bulgaria in a neighbouring country. But maybe it makes sense when you push consumption and when the poorest pay the price of the right-wing policy that you offer. When the ratio between direct and indirect taxes is one to three. When the government does not foresee an investment policy leading to another development of Bulgaria. Who pays the price of this policy, which is pseudo-reformative, is clear because this budget does not foresee reforms, but only cuts, freezing, reducing labour costs. Such a policy for us is antisocial. The share in gross domestic product of secondary education funds is reduced by about 50 million when the whole world and Europe invest in education so that through the development of education they can seek and attract investment. Therefore, the forecast for next year's investment, estimated through this budget, is extremely modest. Honourable Members of Parliament, such a policy condemns a categorical failure to target the 2020 Strategy to reduce people at risk of poverty by 260 thousand. After next year there are five years left and it is impossible for us to achieve this goal. The poor will become poorer, the economy will rise, and the social spread will grow and the poor will bear the burden of tax and debt. The majority of Bulgarians do not accept and will not accept this. Such a policy is doomed. Such a right-wing policy has no future and citizens will soon demand change. We from BSP left Bulgaria not only do we not support this budget, we are ready to give alternatives for change that people expect to have another future for the citizens of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the discussions on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund? Mr. Minister, you have the floor. I call on the Members of Parliament to vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to summarize very briefly some of the answers. I don't know where to start, maybe the cheerier part. Dear Mrs. Manolova, dear Maya [[Laughter and raging]] You say you don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u133	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt. If you go to answer by name each one of the speakers, they will ask for a personal explanation. The time has passed for the next question. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u134	I won't do it, but it's important to understand the meaning here. You say you don't understand. I know you don't understand, but there is no reason why all Bulgaria should understand it. I have said my clear arguments in an attempt to respond to Dr. Ademov, who, like you, is my political opponent, but I know he understands. What I'm going to say about the other people saying where the budget reform is going to be. I mean, for example, Mr. Boychev, who I know makes sense that he wants things to take place. [[Loud noise and laughter from GERB.]] Let's, let's, let's! Let's do it, 'cause this is important! [[Laughter and excitement from GERB.]] Did I list them all? After three Fridays of ministry service and after three Fridays of majority in this parliament on the ministry website on Friday there will be an urgent package of reforms, and by the end of the year the Council of Ministers will enter the National Assembly with the Concept of General Health Reforms, which will be adopted or not. That's three Fridays! I would like to thank the Group of the Reformation Block, the Group of the Patriotic Front and the ABB for the preliminary support for the budget of the House of Parliamentary Group of GERB, the Group of the Reformation Block, the Group of the Patriotic Front and the ABB. To thank the Bulgarian Democratic Center. I really do not understand why the other two parliamentary groups have supported a budget in general for healthcare by 300 million less last year, and now they say they will not support this because it is insufficient, but hopefully this will be changed. Thanks again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Maya Manolova, a personal explanation. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u136	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Moskov, the question in this debate is not whether I understand, because I am not the Minister of Health. The question is whether you understand what you're saying or what you're doing. Unfortunately, as we have all been convinced in this room, you do not understand because the signals you broadcast not only from television studios, but also from this tribune are absolutely contradictory and mutually exclusive. You have announced from this platform that you will not allow an update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. At the same time, you have explained that you will be making changes to the National Framework Treaty in the middle of this year, not understanding at all that you are not a party to this treaty and without having concluded this contract at the beginning of this year. You will change something that has not been concluded. You explained that with the changes in this framework contract you would take activities out of hospital care and include them in the outpatient, without even realizing that money is needed for this. [[M Minister Peter Moskov's reply.]] And if you didn't put them in the budget for this calendar year, where the hospital aid funds were already underfunded, you couldn't do that. You do not understand that the reform that moving activities from one place to another is about money [[M Minister Peter Moskov's line]] and must have its financial justification. That you do not understand the functions and tasks of Emergency Aid, all Bulgarian citizens learned it. [[Noise in GERB and RB. Proclaims: "The Time, the Time! "]] That you do not understand that the authorities are not Roma leaders, but police officers, and that the judiciary is different from the Roma mesher...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u137	Time's up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u138	You don't understand! This is what all Bulgarian citizens were convinced of.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u139	Mrs. Manolova, your colleagues are calling me...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u140	And treat Parliament more seriously and your duties as a minister. You're not the chief physician of the Republic who runs your doctors. You're a minister... [[Noise and loud shouting from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. Please vote. Vote 187 MPs: 121 against 66 abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] For a negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u142	Whether co-workers calmed down, Madam President@
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u143	What do you think?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u144	Well, from the looks of it...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u145	They're calm now. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u146	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Unfortunately, the minister is gone. He did his job. I would vote for this budget right now if Minister Moskov had the valor to come and say: "These are our options, we could have done this for three Fridays, and we will have a lot of work to do so that we can make a budget related to reforms." But I can't do that when he says he's going to make reforms and enter with an old budget. There is no way I can do that when this budget transforms and continues to hold the Health Insurance Fund as an ATM where everyone carries an invoice and they pay because they can't control it. There is no way to support this budget when the Ministry in no form and in no way hints that it wants to make any reforms aimed at improving health care in Bulgaria aimed at corporate interests in medicine, which are directed against the interests of pseudo-patient organizations that protect the monopoly of pharmacists. This budget is a budget that we, colleagues, will update again and talk about the same things. Then those who supported this budget today will ask you if you will not be ashamed when you update it again?! Thank you. [[Noise and shout in GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Is there anyone who wants a second negative vote? [[People from BSP LB want a re-vote.]] The votes are after the announcement of the outcome of the vote. Revoting is not requested in due course, Mr. Mikov. But you have the opportunity to express a negative vote. [[Reply of MP Mihail Mikov.]] You waited nicely, but he went for a negative vote. Is there a second negative vote? I won't. The procedure is over. The bill was passed at first reading. [[Private applause from GERB and RB.]] Moving on to the second point of today's sitting: FIRST READING OF THE LAW ON THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2015 Let's thank Minister Moskov first. Let's say welcome to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin. A report for the first reading of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Yordanova will introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Please invite Biser Petkov the manager of the NSI, and Antoinette Gancheva the main actuary of the NSI.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u149	Please vote on the proposal for admission to the Chamber. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u150	♪ I can't believe under the State Social Security Budget Act 2015, No 402-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. At a meeting held on 3 December 2014, the Committee on Budget and Finance, together with the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health, examined the Draft Budget of State Social Security for 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance; Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Vesela Karaivanova-Nacheva, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute; Rumyana Todorova, Governor of NHIF, Dincho Genev, Governor of the Casata, Director of Departments in the ministries, representatives of employers' organizations, representatives of trade unions in Bulgaria, representatives of mutual organizations, etc. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Biser Petkov. On the basis of the report on the implementation of the consolidated budget of the State Social Security as of September 2014 and its expected implementation by the end of the year, as well as the planned results of the proposed amendments and additions to the social security legislation for 2015, the Council of Ministers shall propose the following consolidated draft budget of the State Social Security for 2015: 1. It's revenue. - It is envisaged to maintain the amounts and ratios of the social security contributions to the state, as well as the participation of the State in the financing of the Fund. - The minimum insurance thresholds for the main economic activities and groups of professions increased by an average of 4.4 percent compared to 2014. The lowest minimum insurance income is 360 BGN, which is the expected amount of minimum wage from the beginning of 2015. - The differentiated minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons according to their taxable labour income for 2013 is 420 BGN, 450 BGN, 500 BGN respectively. And 550 leva. - From 1 January 2015 the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers of 240 BGN is increased. At 420 leva, - From 1 January 2015 the maximum insurance income for all insured persons is increased from 2400 BGN. £2,600. The total amount of revenue and transfers is available at the amount of 9 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. or 257,1 million. lv. More than the amount of the In the context of the total amount 9 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or with 146,7 million. lv. More than the amount of the 2014 The following amounts are: transfer from the state budget of 12 per cent to the sum of the insurance benefits of all insured persons for the calendar year of the amount of 2,707,8 million. BGN, or 88.9 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. or an increase of 10.7 million. lv.; revenue from non-tax revenue amounting to 12,0 million BGN, which is less than 2014 by 6.2 million. lv.; reduction of total revenue with VAT and other sales taxes of 1,0 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. BGN, which was increased by 17,0 million. lv. As compared to 2014 2. Expenditure 2015 Policies: As of 1 January 2015, the age and retirement insurance internship under Art. 1 January 2015 shall be increased. 68 CSRs, four months each. Upgrading pensions from 1 July 2015 by 1.9 per cent, the percentage equal to 50 per cent of the consumer price index and 50 per cent of the increase in average social security income in 2014. Increase from 1 July 2015 to the minimum pension for internship and age from 154.50 to 157,44 BGN and the social pension for old age from 113.00 to 115.15 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Increase the maximum amount of one and more pensions received from 840,00 to 9100,00 BGN. of 1 July 2015 Paragraph 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the CSR shall be extended until the end of 2015. The parameters of short-term benefits are maintained at 2014 levels, only the period from which short-term benefits are calculated during pregnancy and birth is increased from 18 to 24 calendar months. The total amount of expenditure and transfers is planned at an amount of 9 629.3 million. lv. or 259,6 million. lv. More than the amount under the 2014 Act. The increase is due almost entirely to the increase in pension costs by 245,7 million. lv. and is allocated to pensions paid at the expense of state social security of 235,8 million. lv. and pensions, at the expense of the state budget 10.6 million lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the This amount shall include the cost of pensions from the DEA and the Republican budget, the supplements to the pensions of war veterans, the supplements to the pensions of repressed persons under art. 9 of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, the supplement under art. 4 of the Law on the Settlement of Certain Labour and Insurance Rights of Bulgarian Citizens. A positive real pension growth of 3.6 percent is expected in 2015 compared to 2014, with projected annual average harmonised inflation of 0.1 percent in 2015. The average pension amount of a pensioner in 2015 is set to reach BGN 319,99. In the case of expected average size for 2014 BGN 308,53 Pension costs in 2015 are expected to reach 10.1 per cent of GDP. The funds for the payment of social benefits and benefits have been increased by 1 141.1 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in The cost allocation for the main short-term CSR benefits groups is as follows: - temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, the care of a sick family member and quarantine and non-labour claims BGN, which is 99.7 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2014. - benefits for occupational accident and occupational disease -7.4 million. BGN, which is 113.8 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2014. - benefits for pregnancy and childbirth - 284,9 million BGN, which is 104.1 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2014. - benefits for raising a young child up to two years of age and for adoption of a child from 2 to 5 years of age - 150,8 million. BGN, which is 112.3 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2014. - cash benefits for unemployment - 351,6 million BGN, which is 99.1 percent compared to the expected implementation for 2014. 108.5 thousand benefits are planned on an average monthly basis with the amount of compensation 270,14 BGN. - financing of the prevention and rehabilitation activities - 17.7.7 million lv. The cost of programmes, activities and social security services, support and employment is 71,3 million. BGN, a reduction of 5,4 million as compared to 2014. The cost of salaries and salaries of staff employed by employment and service is reduced by 10 per cent compared to the amount of salaries from 2014. The remaining costs of defence and security and the transfers provided are at the level of expenditure for 2014. The budgetary balance for 2015 has an excess of 3.9 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 The budget balance will be fully used for long-term loans from banks and financial institutions from abroad. Proposals for draft budgets of the different DCI Funds for 2015 1. Revenue of 6 191.5 million is offered for the Pension Fund. BGN, expenditure of 8 009,5 million lv. and a deficit of 1,818.0 million. lv. According to the 2014 Act, revenues were increased by 200,6 million. lv.; costs increased by 236,2 million lv. and the deficit was increased by 35.6 million. lv. 2. For a non-employment-related pension fund, the amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and costs of 341,5 million lv. According to the 2014 Act, revenue and expenditure were increased by 10.7 million. lv. The budget balance is zero. 3. A revenue of 138,3 million is offered for the Fund. BGN, costs 54.3 million lv. and an excess of 84,0,0 million. lv. According to the 2014 Act, revenues were increased by 4.3 million. BGN, costs are reduced by 0,8 million. lv. and the surplus was increased by 5.1 million. lv. 4. For the General Disease Fund, the revenue is 743.5 million. BGN, costs 800,8 million lv. and the deficit is 57.2 million. lv. According to the 2014 Act, revenues were increased by 24.3 million. lv. the costs increased by 26,4 million. BGN and the deficit increases by 2,0 million. lv. 5. The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 205.1 million, i.e. the amount of the aid to be recovered from the beneficiary, i.e. the amount of the aid to be recovered from the beneficiary, and the amount of the aid to be recovered from the beneficiary, i.e. the amount to be recovered from the beneficiary, the amount to be recovered from the beneficiary, the amount to be recovered from the beneficiary, the amount to be According to the 2014 Act, revenues were increased by 6.4 million. BGN, the costs were reduced by 10 BGN, and the deficit was reduced by 16.7 million. lv. 6. For the budget of the National Insurance Institute, revenue of 2 013,2 million is offered. BGN, the costs amount to 71.5 million. lv. and a budget balance surplus of 1,941.7 million. lv. According to the 2014 Act, revenues were increased by 10.8 million. BGN, costs are reduced by BGN 5.4 million. and the surplus budget balance was increased by 16.2 million. lv. The bill proposes amendments and additions to the Code of Social Security and Supplement to the Health Act, which are related to the budget of the State Social Security for 2015. In the course of the discussion were asked a number of questions and opinions about: the possibility of introducing early retirement, increasing the minimum insurance income for farmers up to the minimum insurance income of the other self-insuring persons from 240 to 420 BGN, the increase of the period for calculating maternity compensation; the growth of age and the internship for retirement, etc. After the discussions were concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the Budget of State Social Security for 2015, No 402-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will be presented to us by Dr. Ademov. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} under the State Public Budget Bill Security for 2015 with importer The Council of Ministers The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its extraordinary meeting, held on 3 December 2014, examined and discussed the State Social Security Budget Bill with the importer of the Council of Ministers. If you'll allow me, Madam President, I'll skip the meeting to save time. The project was presented by Mr. Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute. The budget of state social security for 2015 basically retains revenue policies. The amounts and the ratio of social security contributions to the State at the level of 2014 shall be maintained. The amount of the contribution shall be retained for the employees of the special offices who retire in accordance with art. 69 of the Social Security Code (SCO). The maximum monthly amount of the insurance income is changed from 2 400 to 2 600 BGN. The minimum monthly amount of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers from 240 to 420 BGN is increased by 57 percent. The maximum insurance thresholds for major economic activities and groups of professions are expected to increase by an average of 4.4 per cent compared to 2014. In 2015, contributions to the Fund are not envisaged to be made to the Guaranteed claims of the workers. The total amount of revenue and transfers received for 2015 is 9 billion. The Commission 200,000. BGN, including received transfers from the state budget 5 billion 52 million. lv. (for the State's contribution to the financing of the Fund, Pensions, 12% to 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; for pensions and allowances financed by the State budget....................................................................................................... lv. and to cover the deficit Two million. 200,000. lv.). There have been significant changes in spending policies: as of 1 January 2015 the age and retirement internship under art. 68 by 4 months compared to the 2014 levels; an update of the pensions is envisaged from 1 July next year under the so-called Swiss rule. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received from 840 BGN is effectively increased. £910. The minimum amount of internship and age pension shall be changed under the pension update rule. Paragraph 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the CSR shall be extended until the end of 2015 for the retirement of category workers. The period from which the compensation for pregnancy and birth is calculated is increased from 18 to 24 calendar months. The remaining cost criteria shall be maintained. The average pension amount of a pensioner in 2015 is expected to become BGN 319,99. In the case of expected average size for 2014 BGN 308,53. in 2014. The net substitution coefficient for 2015 is intended to be 57.2 per cent. For 2015 8 billion were provided. The Commission $800,000. lv. the cost of pensions, such as the expected implementation of pension costs under the State Social Security Budget Act (BDO), without the cost of Easter supplements, is 324 million. lv. more than 2014. This will mainly be due to the update of pensions from 1 July 2015, the extension of § 4 and the year-round payment of the update of pensions and supplements from 1 July 2014. The pension costs in 2015 are expected to reach 10.1 per cent of gross domestic product. The funds for prevention and rehabilitation are increased to 17 million 700 thousand. lv. According to the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market, it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for 2014 The planned costs for the operation of the Social Security are 71,3 million. lv. The relative share of these costs in relation to all costs in the Consolidated Budget of the Ministry of Health is 0,74 per cent. The State Social Security Budget Act 2015 proposed changes to the CSR in order to reduce the administrative burden on employers in relation to filling data on the NRA's information system. The regime of provision of all persons working in the employment relationship shall be aligned and the scope of the insurance protection for workers under the employment contract shall be extended to less than the statutory working hours within one calendar month. The circle of persons insured for all insurance risks is extended, including persons entrusted with the management and/or control of state and municipal enterprises under Chapter 9 of the Commercial Law. The existing obligation on insurers to issue insurance and social benefits documents in all cases of termination of the insurance relationship is dropped. An amendment and addition to art. CSR 100 with a view to specifying the provision and its applicability in the case of deflation. During the debate, representatives of social partners expressed satisfaction with the proposed increase in age and internship for retirement, the retention of tax rates and the increase in the amount of maximum social income. From the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and the Parliamentary Group of "Liabilities and Freedoms" expressed the opinion that they would not support the proposed bill for a number of reasons, among which the increase in retirement age and retirement internship by 4 months, dropping the proposal for early retirement, the increase in the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers, the increased period from which the compensation for pregnancy and birth is calculated from 18 to 24 calendar months. In response to the questions asked, the Minister of Finance pointed out that the social costs compared to 2014 were 800 million. in more for 2015 After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 12 votes for... 7 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the 2015 State Social Security Budget Bill with an importer of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. On behalf of the importer, we will hear from Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after my fellow Members have presented the very selected State Social Security Budget Project, I would like to make some additional comments and reasoning on it without repeating the dimensions, numbers and proposals that have been made to amend the law. Then, Madam President, with your permission, since the debates have continued quite a bit today, and after a while there is a consultation with the social partners, I will have to go out. Mr. Bisser Petkov is here and I think he will be able to give the information the MPs need as much as possible. Dear colleagues, the state social security budget, as has become clear from the presentation, is worth more than 10% of the country's gross domestic product and this is at a level of pension benefits that are much lower than what people expect and would like to receive. By the way, if you look back, very rarely the costs of public insurance have passed the 10% of gross domestic product. We're at 10.1% now. Because of the demographic characteristics of the country, the small numbers for the individual pensioner mean a lot to the whole system. For example, if you increase pensions by 10 BGN per month. the pensioner will cost the entire system about 300 million. lv. Annually. We see what numbers we're talking about. What should be our goal? I hear a lot of comments on the budget proposal down for next year. They are also related to the insufficient amount of pensions, and to the low incomes they receive from many people and so on, and they are justified. The question is: what are we doing in this situation? We are looking for an additional increase in funds, I have already mentioned that this means an unprecedented high level of gross domestic product to go for pensions, and they are still not changed enough, or are we looking for a comprehensive long-term solution that will guarantee people more worthy pensions? There is one indicator that is being monitored in many countries, this is the substitution factor. Then, when a person retires for work experience, how much and what is the amount he can receive to replace his work income. And in countries where the pension system is stable, it reaches 65-70, in some countries up to 80% substitution. It's much lower with us. With us the average percentage is 57 is for the average insurance income. Unfortunately, many people take much lower pensions and their substitution rate is much smaller, which means, in other words, that when the Bulgarian retires, in the mass case his income collapses. The way to solve the problems there is not to continue to freeze and maintain the system as it is. Last year, the honourable MPs have frozen the increase in age and other changes with the argument that a long-term solution will be found in 2014. As you can see, whether because of the elections, whether for political reasons, such a decision has not been found. I am not ready to offer you again for another year to freeze everything again, because my thought is for those people who then receive income and expect income from the pension system. The pension system in Bulgaria in 53% is subsidized by the state budget. This is an unprecedented high level for European countries. What is the point of having a pension fund on your own if people's pensions depend not on it, but on contributions from the budget? And then, when there are difficult years, the contributions to the budget can't go there. If we want to have a stable pension system, it means that it is as independent as possible. Yes, it is a fact that there is almost no system that is not supported by the budget, but supported by 20, 30, even 40% is one thing, and it is over 50% financed by the budget is another. There is one thing that many people in Bulgaria do not work for them and do not understand it. There's no money in the pension system at the NSI from which someone good can give or take from people. What is paid in a solidarity system this month by contributions plus more, added by the state, next month is paid to pensions. If we want to increase them, it means either increasing subsidies from the budget, understanding taxes, or increasing contributions, or maintaining miserable pensions. So maintaining this system and freezing it for another year doesn't solve anything. What we are doing right now, and I am glad that I have the support of my fellow government, is looking for the long-term solution. It cannot be done by the end of next year's budget procedure it is a fact, but it could be done at the beginning of next year and now some changes are being put into the law for next year. When I say a long-term solution, I am referring to a few questions that really need to find a long-term solution to the retirement age; the retirement internship, including the first and second categories of workers; the way in which professional pension funds and universal pension funds are private capital schemes, assume part of the pensions that they should be taking on for those who retire earlier, for example in the professional funds, and for which we are looking for a way to start receiving pensions next year and they should not be reduced. Because if the law does not change, the miners will come out next year with very small pensions, which will not know and how long they will receive them in the sense that they will not receive them for the rest of their lives as they intended. Why? Because these funds have been designed to pay pensions for eight years. This was set back in 1999. Currently the difference between the retirement of a first category worker and a third category is 12 years, and for women it reaches 13 years and the private pension fund capital scheme says: I can't pay more than eight. What do people care about? Can we adopt a decision to make them start receiving pensions and, after a certain period, lose their income? Obviously, we can't. Obviously, the solidarity system must again bear this burden and guarantee people retirement. However, when we talk about this system, we also need to talk about social security contributions, we also need to talk about maximum social security income, we also need to talk about guaranteeing the income in the pension system, because a worker, a miner, is not guilty when his employer has not paid his contributions to a capital scheme. Then the fund says you ain't got nothing on you, and I ain't paying you. Indeed, the commitment to collect contributions, these contributions being sufficient, pension funds being autonomous enough is an obligation if we want to see people's pensions increase. We can maintain systems that are like the current ones built over the years by different repairs, patches and so on. This is not the way to increase pensions and will not happen. Each of you, of us, who walks and meets people with low incomes, cannot explain to them that pensions will increase while maintaining this system that is currently working without finding long-term solutions. Yeah, in the pension system from next year, you can't make any changes. Those people who are now retiring are actually paying the big price of pension reform since 1999. I am therefore opposed to a sharp increase in age and internship in a third category. Because these are the people who need to take even more weight, but I am also against freezing the current situation, which is a road that leads nowhere. We guarantee people low pensions with this system. My call to all parliamentary groups, which is why I have had the opportunity to speak, including the National Assembly's stand, to seek consent. Not an agreement that will be imposed by this Parliament and the next will cancel it as it happened last year, but one that will give people confidence that not now or next year, but at least in a foreseeable period the income of pensioners will be worthy and people will have the opportunity with the pensions they receive to afford the standard of life they expect. That means long-term solutions. I will not go into many details about this bill. There are things in it that may be looked at one more time by the MPs between first and second readings. The National Insurance Institute has prepared this bill based on the parameters set down by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of current legislation. If we manage to find a broader framework, a wider agreement, then the first steps can be taken right now. If we fail to find this agreement if, in the efforts with social partners, employers and trade unions, we fail to find the agreement, we guarantee a pension system that will drive on a lame foot and guarantee misery for people who receive pensions. So the responsibility lies with all of us and no one can stand by and say that I am not interested in this, as the pension system is a long-term process. If the changes start now, they have to end in 15 years. Perhaps all parties will spin through power during this time, but it is important that they ensure that there is an agreement on the way we are going, and people can expect some better pensions, as is happening in a mass of countries comparable to us in Europe. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My request, ladies and gentlemen, is that we seek not only this year or next year's decision, but the decisions that will be able to guarantee long-term meaningful and much better pensions for people who go on a well-deserved holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u155	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin, for participating in today's plenary session. In accordance with art. 89, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act should hear a report from the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. We're listening, Mr. Petkov. Within 10 minutes, I see that your report is sufficiently bulky. Decide to give us the most important of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u156	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reports of the two committees have already presented the main policies laid down in the draft Law on State Social Security Budget for next year. In short, I will mark accordingly the main amendments proposed by this Draft Law, with the provision for the preservation of the amounts and ratios of social security contributions for all the risks covered by the state social security. With regard to minimum insurance benefits, as underlined, on the basis of the arrangement between the social partners and the administrative increase for the activities in which no agreement has been reached, there is a total increase of 4,4 per cent of the minimum insurance income, which is estimated to increase the income from insurance contributions by 35 million. $400,000. With regard to the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons, it remains in the amount of 420 BGN. monthly, of course, being differentiated depending on the tax income declared for a previous year. The change proposed is related to increasing the minimum insurance income of farmers from 240 to 420 BGN, which, if supported, is estimated to increase the income from insurance contributions by 8 million. $400,000. Also, as mentioned, there is an increase in the maximum insurance income from 2400 to 2600 BGN, which in our estimates will affect about 97 thousand persons who declare taxable income to and higher than the current maximum insurance income, and are expected to bring revenue of 30 million. $800,000. lv. As regards the two smaller budgets, which are annexed to the consolidated budget of state social security, there is no provision for a change in the amount of insurance contributions to the Teacher's Pension Fund and to the Guaranteed claims of employees, where the maximum amount of guaranteed claims remains at BGN 1200. With regard to spending policies, I will not repeat what has already been said in the reports of the Chairs of the two committees. As regards short-term risks, an increase in the reference period is envisaged from which the amount of the guarantee for pregnancy and birth is calculated by 6 months from 18 to 24 months. As regards the projection of these policies in the very budget of the state social security, the overall increase in revenue in the budget compared to the expected implementation for this year to an absolute amount of 153 million. lv. or 3.5% more revenue than expected this year. In terms of costs, they increase by a smaller proportion, but due to their larger size, the absolute increase is 289 million compared to the expected implementation this year, which also provides for the larger planned amount of transfers from the state budget, which cover the difference between revenue and expenditure in the budget of state social security. With regard to the increase in costs, the most important is the planned increase in pension expenditure, which prevails in the budget of state social security over 85%. In particular, the planned increase in the total cost of pensions is 324 million. more than expected pension costs for this year, with this amount in its main part arising from the year-round payment of updated pensions and allowances from 1 July this year. As is known to the honourable Members from 1 July this year, pensions have been increased under the Swiss rule, so that the year-round payment of the increased pensions will result in 122 million more costs. The update of pensions, which is set to be 1.9 per cent again under the Swiss rule from 1 July next year, results in 94 million more costs. These 324 million, respectively, provide for the effects of an increase in the maximum amount of one or more pensions received, estimated at 18 million for the half-year. 200,000. more expenditure, as well as the increase or natural growth of pensions as a result of the fact that the newly granted pensions are higher than the suspended pensions, which in absolute terms leads to an increase of 15 million. Six hundred thousand. The planned amount for payment of pensions next year compared to gross domestic product is 10.1 per cent, that is, the limit of 10% is crossed. As regards the gross grant, an increase of 2.4 per cent is envisaged compared to the expected implementation for this year or the planned amount of monetary benefit expenditure of 1 billion. 157 million. 700 thousand, with the majority of these benefits being temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, watching a sick family member, quarantine and accidents at work. The planned amount is 343 million, approximately the amount of expected execution this year. As regards benefits for pregnancy and childbirth, the other major coverage in short-term benefits, the planned amount is 285 million approximately, which is 104 percent compared to the expected implementation for this year. The compensations for raising a young child whose absolute amount for the individual compensation is maintained for 340 BGN per month are intended to amount to a total of 150 million. 800 thousand, which is 12.1 per cent more than expected for 2014, and unemployment benefits are planned at 351 million. 800 thousand, which is 99.1 percent compared to the expected performance this year. As already noted, prevention and rehabilitation activities are planned to cover 17 million. Seven hundred thousand, about two million. 200,000 more than this year's amount. As regards the financing of the activity, social security, the estimated amount is 71 million. Three hundred thousand. The total reduction of staff costs by 10 per cent in relation to the wage costs of the NSI workers in 2014, resulting from these revenue and expenditure estimates, is provided for all budgets within the general budget 818 million. It is intended to end with a balance of 84 million. This shortfall in the consolidated budget funds shall be balanced with the surplus in the NSI budget where the additional transfer is received to cover the shortfall, so that the shortfall is balanced by the surplus in the National Insurance Institute budget. As has been stressed, the draft Budget Act also offers some amendments and additions to the Social Security Code related to the implementation of the State Social Security Budget Act. The more important of them, if I have the time, Madam President, I could comment on the introduction of equalisation of insurance payments and social security income, except for the Fund The same is provided for the equalisation of the regime of insurance of persons working on employment relationships, which makes it easier to declare the insurance income of those persons. In addition to the changes made, it is proposed that, in respect of persons who acquire invalidity pensions, part of the minimum required service, one third of it be valid, as there are cases in which persons enjoy rights without having an insurance contribution, i.e. the entire required service is recognised accordingly. These are periods of receiving benefits and raising a child up to 3 years of age. This is in line with the principles of social security. In addition, another change relates to the cancellation of social pensions for invalidity as a second pension of 25% of the full pension amount, with all pensions granted by the end of 2014 continuing to be paid until the period of incapacity.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u157	Please finish your thought, the ten minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u158	In addition, it is recommended that a decision of the European Court of Justice be removed from the text of para. 2 in art. 94, which actually requires, in order to relax and exercise the right to a pension, the person to terminate his insurance. In this case, based on the decision of the European Union, which is mandatory for those who benefit from the rights under European treaties, this should be for the Bulgarian citizens as well. There is also a change in the Health Act, which aims to ensure the performance of the duties by the authorities of medical experts by the heads of medical institutions for the submission of data from the electronic hospital sheets, so as not to prevent the use of rights by the entitled persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u159	Thank you to Mr. Petkov. I'm opening the debate. Until now, the following MPs have made a statement: Mr. Lutvi Mestan, Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Chukolov. We're listening, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am sorry that the social minister is not here. I know that he is in a meeting and for respectable reasons he is not with us, and yet it seems a little unusual to discuss such an important law in his absence. I would have urged him not to make the mistake of his health colleague and declare this bill the only possible one. Because this expression is the only possible one that leads us to Voltaire's naive optimism. You remember, Candid is taught by his teacher Panglos that this world we live in is the only possible world and for this reason is the most wonderful. It's a book that describes naive optimism. I hope there are no naive optimists in this room. Far from being the only possible bill. Conversely, there are quite disturbing texts in it, which I hope with a common will to be corrected between first and second readings. Yes, undoubtedly reforms in the state social security system are necessary. In this system we are seeing extremely severe imbalances, we could even say that it is about to destroy the paradigm of insurance, given the undisputed fact, pointed out by the Minister that 53% of the funds in state social security are in line with the direct state subsidy. We're about to lose the meaning of the insurance system. The question is, however, what steps do we take, and do we have simple social sensitivity to whether all the measures proposed here are acceptable to those who will be affected? I have taken the floor to put only one accent and I will turn to the colleagues from BSP, I am convinced that they will express a similar position on the case, but I address my colleagues from ABB with all the kindness that I am capable of. I also address colleagues from GERB! I would even allow myself to address some of my colleagues from the Reformation Block. I will be very curious and their vote at second reading, especially in those texts, which foresee the amount of minimum insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers to increase dramatically......................................................................................... This price is unpaid by small farmers. To understand me, I will present you with the language of numbers what is offered in the bill. For 2014 farmers and tobacco producers are provided on BGN 240. minimum social security income and due monthly for social security BGN 64,92 With the proposed amendment in 2015 will already pay not BGN 64,92 but BGN 108,36. For health insurance for 2014 the amounts due are BGN 19,20, for 2015 increased to BGN 33,60. or total monthly due amounts for 2014 were BGN 81,12 and for 2015 increased to BGN 141,90. Total annual amounts due for 2014, social plus health insurance, are BGN 973,44 and for 2015 an increase of BGN 1702,80 is envisaged. This is a growth of 729.36 leva. That's absolutely impossible. I thought we agreed that in times of crisis, we would not increase the tax and social burden. Why did you choose the most vulnerable farmers as a victim? Why? Whatever explanations you give, you will not be understood by the Bulgarian village. These are not the voters of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms only, this is the Bulgarian village! This decision is not just wrong. In view of the numbers I presented to you, this decision is criminal. It would be extremely hypocritical to say that you are referring to the extension of the scope of the instruments of direct payments schemes under the common agricultural policy of the European Union for the period 2015 - 2020. Yes, the scope is expanding. However, there is an opportunity for the farmers provided instead of those approved by the Oresharski cabinet up to BGN 1250, after a correction made by the office, which is not the work of the office at all suppliing up to 500 euros, true, they have the opportunity to receive these amounts, but the meaning of Mr. Hristov, I turn to you, again, the most well-intentioned meaning of the extended scope of direct payments is in strengthening the small farms, their development. Turns out Europe will give 700-800 leva. And they'll go to the social fund every penny. How will development be ensured? How will strengthening be ensured?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u161	You're contradicting yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u162	There's no way! There's no way! You're a little more careful when you talk about the contradiction in Mestan's speeches. You have the opportunity to reply and justify the contradiction. It's gonna be a little hard for you to do. When in 2009, in the first management of GERB, the amount of minimum insurance income was increased twice again from 120 to 240 BGN, you did not achieve the desired effect of increasing the incomes in the DEO and NHIF. You have not achieved this goal for a very simple reason It's gonna work out the same way now. I'm going to give you the numbers again because when we talk to the language of the numbers, the conversation is easier and a little bit difficult to see the contradiction in the numbers. In 2013, a census of agricultural holdings was carried out. It turned out that 259 thousand were counted in Bulgaria. 900 farms. Do you know how many registered farmers there are? It's only 75 grand! We propose that state policy should focus on expanding the basis of the insured persons rather than torturing the relatively small number of insured farmers. This is the wrong policy. Note: before the increase in the minimum amount of the insurance income in 2009, the registered farmers were nearly 100 thousand. 087. After only one year after the double increase in the amount of minimum insurance income, the number of farmers registered fell to 69 thousand by 30 thousand. less. Is that what we want in 2015?! My fellow Members, as you can see, I deliberately abstain from more extreme political assessments, but in conclusion, this proposal of yours is irresistible. I think it needs to change, and it will change. My proposal is to change the texts with political agreement, not to have to change them under the pressure of the inevitable protest of farmers. Here the elementary approach to my thesis will be: Now Mestan scares with protests. No, I don't scare with any protests. However, I declare that even if we all unite around this text, that is, there is no risk that even a single political force will be tempted to exploit objective discontent, we will still not be able to spare ourselves. We won't be heard. Protests will also be under the pressure of protests we will have to change this text. I call for simple justice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u163	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, today it seems as if the debate on the public insurance budget has been going on as from 5, 6, 10 years ago in its template form. What do I mean? Every year, when we come to the moment for adoption of budgets, first of all is how there is no money, how much the system has been damaged, how many certain groups in certain areas have been damaged. So far, I have not heard what reserves the pension system has and whether it has collected all its claims. What do I mean? Here I'll ask my colleagues on the left to listen carefully. They did one good thing in 2009, but it ended there. In 2009, honourable Members, the Bulgarian State signed an agreement with Russia on pension and social security. This agreement concerns over 350,000. Bulgarian honest and decent citizens who worked in the former republics of the Soviet Union, especially in the Comi ASSR. You are looking at one with five years and three months of service first category under severe northern conditions. All media and government press offices have blown up how these honest and honest people, thanks to whom the Bulgarian economy has been anchored in those years, thanks to which the Bulgarian forest, which is now being cut down, will begin to receive pensions. Except pensions, as they say, yok, no pensions. There's no one to protect our interests. What's the situation, anyway? It took me four years to put one by one the respective ministers in class to start defending the Bulgarian national interest. It took me a year to bring it up with Minister Totyu Mladenov. Just as the man went to class, the government fell. It took me a year to bring Mr. Hassan Ademov in. He just got into class. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov]] ,... Just don't make me videotape you admit you're not an encyclopedia and you don't know anything. When it's all documented, there's no talking! We just got him into class, and that government fell. What's the whole moment? I hope, after the conversation we had just had with Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, that this issue will finally be put on the table in front of the Russian side, because here, honourable Members, it is about attracting the funds it owes under this agreement. These funds are within 600-700 million leva. Annually. The Bulgarian country has paid a very serious account and it represents all built capacities in the territory of Comi ASSR, Udor region, which are worth several billion Bulgarian leva. These are homes, roads, production facilities that the Bulgarian state has paid for. However, 300,000 Bulgarian honest workers who usually use them at Koprinka Dam in September forget to protect their interests. When we talk about these reservations, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute was sending letters, but there a group of clerks didn't lift a finger to see what the problem was. However, the other more serious problem will come, and it is that the payrolls of these people are kept by law for 50 years. The average wage charged on these payrolls is 1500 rubles on a ruble course, if you don't remember it, I will remind you of it. At the time, otherwise, BGN 2,000. These people will want their pensions charged on these salaries. These first-class workers, now sick people, receive minimum pensions between 160 and 200 BGN, and years of blood labor under conditions of first category and under severe northern conditions, outdoors and winter, and summers, up to minus 50 degrees in winter and up to 50 degrees in summer. As for what Mr Mestan said about the so-called farmers, yes, farmers are damaged, and the state is also damaged, and the social security system is also damaged. It is wrong that in Bulgaria for years the Bulgarian farmer should compete with the smuggling of fruits and vegetables imported from Turkey, Macedonia and from wherever. So how to resist the Bulgarian farmer?! When you talk, you have to tell the other truth that tobacco producers make strikes every year, because it turns out there's no one to buy them the tobacco. It is the same tobacco that you promise them will be sold, and at high prices. However, every year these people are deceived and it turns out that their tobacco is molding because most of them have not cut off a tobacco leaf, let alone know how to cut down tobacco. Just don't blame me for being xenophobic, because I live in the same house as a Turk. It's gonna be a little hard to accuse me of being xenophobic.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u165	Keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u166	Don't mention it to me, Mr. Ademov. You're neither a doctor nor you can comment on me. [[Single applause and laughter by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u167	Please do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u168	Make a remark to the gentleman, he has no right to replicate me from place to place. Dear colleagues, here I call on you, when we talk about this social security system, Bulgaria will finally start seeking its claims. People who speak kindly about Russia, I hope that they will now turn to Russia and say: Be so kind, gentlemen of the Russian Federation, to pay your debts to honest and honest over 300,000 Bulgarian workers. Then the social security system will be relieved, then there will be an opportunity to cancel § 6, par. 1 of the Social Security Code, on which we constantly change the purpose in 2 years, namely to stop the ceiling of pensions. Because when the ceiling of pensions is unblocked, we won't have to unblock the minimum pension. Because the scissors are going to get really big. However, the gentlemen on the left very thoughtfully made sure that at the end of 2013 they changed again the period from 2014 to 2018. And 50 thousand Bulgarian citizens also worked under the conditions of category I, as miners, as flyers and so on, could not get the maximum amount of pensions. And notice, when a decision on this case comes into force by the Commission on protection against discrimination, that this text is discriminatory. Just don't develop these to me that there was a decision of the Constitutional Court, which concerns, however, the already repealed Pension Act. So on the left and here, in the middle, take it easy, because there's still someone who can tell you the truth as it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u169	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bayraktarov! After the flashback that you did, I honestly didn't understand the connection to the budget of everything you said. And if you could, using the duplicate, explain to me exactly what connection you made between lifting the insurance threshold for farmers with smuggling, with tobacco producers, because you are not actually helping these farmers who are registered for this period. At the moment, it's up to 20,000, looking at 10 acres of land. So if you could just explain to me what the connection you made is?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u171	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u172	If you want a lecture, I'll explain further, outside the three minutes. I just didn't get your name. I'm sorry. I don't know you. If you could help with the gentleman's name?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u173	His name is Krasimir Jankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u174	Mr. Yankov, I apologize, it's really not purposeful.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u175	Well, now you know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u176	When you say that these farmers are harmed, here, again, I stress, it is mainly about tobacco producers, it is good that they start to retire to go explain to them and why they are taking such small pensions. That's one time. The second thing, when you're trying to speculate on this topic, it's good to go explain...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u177	I'm asking what's the connection to the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u178	I'm explaining to you to understand. Don't interrupt me. It is good to go and explain to over 800,000 sole traders who need to be provided on the double size. It's good to get acquainted with a table that you've accepted and it's called the NKPD. These are minimum insurance thresholds, because this is the way. There is no way that a layer, just because it serves certain interests during elections, can benefit. This is not how farming is developed. That is why, as I said earlier, all must be equally responsible to the state and to the relevant social system. Because a great deal of these people, among other things, are constantly in social assistance services, because they live in very difficult areas. And if you wanted to help them instead of putting a change in the Food Act and chasing after the people of Grashevo, Cucumber, Bearbed, not being able to sell their milk, cheese, cheese and all the services of the State Food Inspection to chase them, then I would have believed that you wanted to help them. Only you don't even know these people. You don't even know where they are. Not to tell you that there, if someone jumps against the DPS, they cut ears. [[Radio.]] There's video footage. Personally, I've done them as a journalist, a journalist's investigation. So only you do not speculate with this topic and with this wild populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u179	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. In addition to his name Mr. Krasimir Jankov, he's from BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u180	Is it BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u181	Yeah. [[Radio.]] Next MP for speech? Mr. Chukolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the leadership of the National Assembly. I was hoping Mrs. Tsacheva would be here to tell her that thing, because it has to be clear, it has to be known. It makes a very unpleasant impression when discussing such topics, that no one from the Council of Ministers is here. When express parliamentary control every first Wednesday of the month, so began this trend, then we fit according to the ministers' meetings. Now we're discussing a budget, we're discussing this subject, there's no minister here again. Let him do his meetings so that he can be present in the Chamber because we have questions for him, because he should also be coming out here and explaining a lot of the things that are set out in this budget that he offers us.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u183	I accept the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u184	This issue concerns 2 million. 200,000. Bulgarians literally. Two million and 200,000 Bulgarians! The media are currently dealing with where Petko Sertov is located, here in the Chamber, is going through a vicious debate with slight fights, colleagues from the DPS protect their tobacco producers, the previous colleague from the Patriotic Front hit him on memories of the incomes he expects with his pension from Russia. If they come, don't be surprised if they tell you, but it's in the circle of the joke. And here we are starting to really seriously talk about what the pension system in Bulgaria is and how it needs to change. From what the minister said, we have seen how tragic the situation is and how options should be sought: option one, option two, constant. It was better to be a permanent option. That's what we heard from the minister. Nothing more about how things are going to happen from here on out. And he's still a minister of social affairs, of demographics. He's also deputy prime minister in this office. He was supposed to tell us what he would do, how he would use his influence as Deputy Prime Minister and as Minister of Social Affairs in this cabinet. While the negotiations between these parties, which now constitute the ruling coalition, then I remember some information that specifically the ABB specifically requested this ministry. I expected then and during the negotiations to see what was the opinion of the social minister, of the party he represented, at all, of the coalition on how to conduct the pension reform in Bulgaria. As I feel, the pension reform will be to raise the retirement age, to reduce pensions so that somehow the system can survive. If this is a reform, let's just tell the Bulgarian pensioners that this is coming and which of them can go to another country to save itself. The pension reform that needs to be made should lead to the Bulgarian pensioners having a decent old age. People who have suffered the humiliation to see Bulgaria, which they have built, to see it now plundered, they suffer this humiliation to see all this with low incomes, to wonder how to make ends meet. And these people, because they have pride, because they also have this self-esteem that they have built Bulgaria, they die quietly at home, slumbering, quietly. They don't go out into the squares to pound with drums, with vuvuzels and so on. And because the public opinion does not notice this problem or pretends not to notice it, so perhaps someone will say: this is not a topic of social and political life in Bulgaria. We're talking about a pension system. Do you remember a few months ago, when the banking system became very unstable, how then all the media talked about a banking system, how all the parties and political leaders ran to the president, to discuss what to do, in the banking system is tragic the situation? Let's worry in this way that the pension system is in a tragic situation. Let's all go and discuss this problem. This National Assembly found it and perhaps one of the first hearings, the topics we discussed, was about how to fix the banking system. Once again, the pension system affects 2 million. 200,000. Bulgarians, concerning our mothers and fathers, affects these humiliated people, to whom we no longer have any excuses. We have no excuses! Those stories that are spoken here, about percentages, about 10 BGN, how many million would it be, how to change the demand to go to some village, to some town, wherever we go, how will you look at the man retired, the man who has worked hard and deserves respect, how will you look him in the eye and start talking to him about percentages?! He wants action, he needs action. We, as MPs, if you ask us from "Attack," should be the topic above the topics to be considered in this Parliament and on committees. All kinds of ways to look for.... informal meetings with individual leaders of parties to solve this problem. He has to decide anyway. We've said that, you all know that our nation is shrinking, people are leaving, people are dying. And this is happening in front of the so-called Bulgarian political class in the last 25 years. How did it happen that in the last 25 years, for example, in Hungary, in the Czech Republic, in the countries of the soccer camp, as we called them, how did their pension reform happen, things happened for them?! How did that happen? Let's start thinking about this. How did these governments, these governments, these politicians in the countries concerned manage to make sure that in their coffers, in their treasury there is more money and that money is used for social work, as is the increase in pensions?! They succeeded, and we Bulgarians, who were supposedly the smartest in the world, failed. They succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, because they showed character because it was clear to them that the collapse of a system such as the socialist order would inevitably cause people who are retired or who are already retired to suffer. They didn't accept specialists from anywhere, they came here and offered us their know-how, which in fact proved to be a plan for the destruction of Bulgaria, of the Bulgarians, a reduction of the number of the Bulgarian nation. This proved to be true. They came here for that purpose. The International Monetary Fund how many times has the representative of the mission in Bulgaria come out over the years and says: No increase in pensions, no increase in incomes, increase the years in which people retire?! How many times have they come here and we have taken them as the last instance, as messengers of the Lord God who has come here to tell us how things should happen?! And we took them into account. Let's make sure we take the exact 2 million dollars into account. 200,000. Bulgarians who are voters of all political parties. This problem, which is now being posed, must be constantly posed. Whether we are going to look at the general budget, whether we are going to look at the health budget, this problem is existing and we are not allowed to look at it. There are many ideas here, many approaches to how to do this, but the main thing is in the Bulgarian treasury to collect enough funds to be distributed in this direction. Mr. Bajraktarov said the funds from Russia. Of course, we have to look for them. No less is the problem of the funds Greece owes us. After this transition, during this transition many Bulgarian citizens went to Greece to serve them in their houses, to work to look at their families, as they say. The Greek country also owes a lot of money to Bulgaria for pensions. We have also presented this question to Mr Vigenin at the time was Minister of Foreign Affairs, to the Prime Minister I have asked here a question in parliamentary control. There's negotiations going on now, we're clearing out the hucks, the grief, the Greek money to see. But you have to work this way too. In fact, now that we raise pensions sharply, that money that will be on pensioners, naturally at the end of their lives will not put it on a deposit in a bank and wait for any profit from them. They will spend them on the first topic of health, they will be able to afford such healthcare, they will eat better food, they will not get sick in this way, the medicines will be better. The Bulgarian pensioner, when he received a pension, his first job was to go to pay his electricity, to fulfill all his obligations, payments he had to make. Then the food, then the pills. The Bulgarian pensioner will invest these funds, but the system that is currently developing in Bulgaria is such that this money will expire again from the country. The Bulgarian state will again wonder where to find the money to put them in the treasury and give them to the pensioners. Accordingly, we come to what has been spoken for so long since........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ BGN, to stay here in Bulgaria. There must be a country, a Bulgarian state, and not everything to be privatized, given to another slicker, Bulgarian or foreign, whatever it may be. But this money does not come into the treasury. So we have to make sure that the state has money, prove that the state is not a bad owner. That's the task ahead of us. There's no other way. What other pension reform will you make when there is no money in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u185	Mr. Chukolov, would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u186	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u187	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u188	So this is our problem from here on out. They managed to do it in Hungary, in the Czech Republic. I'll just give you one example. The ERPs are raising the price of electricity. CEZ, Czech State, state, I stress, electricity company increases its profits. At the end of the year, this money goes to the Czech Republic, where this company is from, there is more money in their state treasury and they can afford higher pensions. It is practically obtained that the Bulgarian pensioner makes the Czech pensioner have a higher pension, a better income, say, a Christmas bonus, have enough funds to buy the grandchild toys, for example. Now the Bulgarian pensioner with these 40 leva, who prepared them the government of Boyko Borisov, wonders which next. This is our thesis by Ataka. Of course, we are not going to support this budget because it is a trend that has been going on for years, maybe ten years, since 1997, so that we can make peace with it, say: "There is no way." There is a way. We should really be worried. Simply change banking with the pension system so much effort has been thrown in this direction: to explain to everyone how everything is okay, calmly, foreign factors intervened. The European Commission said: "Divide billions, funds, of course, save things. And has any Eurofactor come to Bulgaria so far, to go down to the airport and say what happens to the Bulgarian pensioners, what are their pensions? You can hear them when they go down to the airport, say, "Did you integrate the gypsies because they are afraid not to go there, not to beat their doctors, not to use their social systems. They are worried about everything else, but not about what the Bulgarian pensioners feel about the way the Bulgarian state tells them that they should live. If we're statesmen, if we're people on the ground, we'll make sure these people meet their old age with dignity. That is why we insist from "Attacka" to be the main topic in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chukolov, I'll give you a positive line. [[Radio.]] Nobody said you had to do negative lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u191	It's in the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u192	And I'm going to give you a positive line to support you on the Greek pension case because you're absolutely right. I've worked hard on this case myself. I have over 8,000 letters and I hope that you will also support more than 200,000 Bulgarian citizens working in Greece to receive their well-deserved pensions, which is still an additional resource for the Bulgarian economy. And I don't know if anyone's gonna mind this happening here. However, it is right to explain that Mr. Slavi Binev was the only MEP who put this question to the European Commission. There are judgmental decisions against Greece on this case for nonpayment of pensions, and the Bulgarian state should really protect Bulgarian citizens as provided for in the Vienna Convention, as provided for in the Bulgarian Constitution. And I hope that in this regard we are all one-handed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u193	Thank you. Just to remind you both of you and the other MPs that there is no such figure in the Rules of Procedure a positive reply. Just the opposite is the point of the line. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov. [[Noise and lines.]] You're giving up, thank you. Next on the speech list is the People's Representative Georgi Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Manager of the NSI, honourable colleagues! Mr. Chairman, I wish that Mrs. Tsacheva would be in the Chamber because I would start by saying that with the change of the agenda, with the adoption of the state budget first, the debates on the small budgets of the Ministry of Education and the NHIF somehow neglected. As I look at the blanks here, to the right of me, where at least the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy should be present, and the blanks in my Chamber are clear that the lack of interest and predestination is complete. I do not know what could be more important for a Minister of Labour and Social Policy than to hear the views of the MPs on the budget of state social security. However, I will try to draw attention to some of the policies in this budget. I will begin first with the declaration that I will not support this budget, because it is a budget of stagnation, of freezing and of validating poverty. Because the proposed draft law on the budget of state social security also lacks the beginnings of some long-term policies. Again we are witnessing partial, for the most part chaotic actions behind which Djankov's philosophy of absoluteising fiscal and macroeconomic stability at the expense of the most vulnerable groups in the population. The budget of state social security must guarantee citizens' social rights and increase the quality of insurance protection, so that the DEA system and, above all, pension insurance does not generate poverty and social exclusion. In the budget of state social security for 2015 there are no such guarantees. This is not a budget of reforms. It's a budget of freezing, of stagnation, of stagnation. At this point, I would have liked to tell Mr. Minister about his speech that political, economic and social conuncture cannot serve as an excuse. The government cannot ignore the firm public attitudes and expectations on a number of issues related to insurance policy, and especially the so-called pension reform, because people are sick of the talk that the only decisions in pension provision are an increase in retirement age and internship and that the freezing of income and social security contributions will stimulate competitiveness and economic growth. In the more than 15 years of pension reform, a stabilisation of the system is pursued at the expense of the rights of the insured and all actions are subject only to its fiscal stability and not to the adequacy of benefits and pensions. In this budget, there is no hint of discussion on the levels of contributions, because, apart from the Fund, there are serious deficits in all other funds from the general budget of the DEA. Although I am convinced that a mechanical increase in social security contributions will not solve the problems, it is necessary to restore confidence in the insurance system, that is, to be ready to pay, because you know that you will receive adequate services if necessary and that the insured persons and pensioners do not have to refinance their social security rights through paid taxes and consumption. A few words on the income section of the DOA. I would also say that the budget does not show economic and demographic indicators on the basis of which revenue and expenditure on individual funds are estimated. I do not see any idea of the undisputed need for measures to increase the collection of the income of the IPOs and the limitation of the possibilities for avoiding obligations and breach of legislation. There is a logic in raising minimum insurance benefits by correcting those for economic activities which have not been changed in the last few years, but why are solutions imposed again without serious justification and without an agreement in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation? After long disputes and public pressure, there will still be an increase in the minimum wage for the country, although twice less, and this will also have a positive effect in the revenue part of the DVO budget. Rather, a positive increase in the maximum insurance income can also be assessed, and although I realize that this is directly linked to the maximum amount of the pension for time and old age, I think that the increase could be more serious. We can even talk about reaching a 1:10 ratio between minimum wage and minimum social income. And we come here to a sharp increase of 75% in minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers. There may be some logic in terms of justice and increasing the security protection of these categories, but there is no way to support such a measure because you are putting these people in difficulty or inability to fulfil this social obligation. You're reaching for their bread. You'll cause discontent and protest. Why? Is there going to be so much increase in revenue in the D.O.O.? And do you think about increasing the gray sector, which will result in this increase? Honourable Members, several criticisms on the spending part of the DCI budget. In general, the proposed bill does not propose a decision on the adequacy of payments, as are the expectations of society. People expect not to freeze the amount of payments, but a more serious increase. Unlike the 2010 period, you plan to update all pensions from 1 July 2015 under the Swiss rule by 1.9 percent. It is unlikely that this will compensate the growing cost of maintenance in 2015 for a huge part of the Bulgarian pensioners. This will lead to an increase in the minimum pension of BGN 154.50. at BGN 157,44, i.e. BGN 2,94 and the average pension of BGN 308. at BGN 314, i.e. BGN 6 And if we take this to the increase of the maximum pension from 840 to 910 BGN, that is, by 70 BGN. or in percent this is an 8.3% increase, the question of the justice of this whole approach arises. And I ask the question: why don't you tie the consumer price index to the so-called "little basket" and tie it to the consumer price index from the European Union's common consumer basket? You do not change the minimum compensation for unemployment - BGN 7.20 a day, BGN 154. for a month or whole 40.53 per cent of the future minimum wage. You violate the standards of the International Labour Organisation and as soon as the upper limit is set at 60% of the average insurance income of the person, determine the lower limit to 60% of the minimum wage. per day or BGN 228. per month, because in such a way you make no sense of the motivation for the need to provide for such low benefits, which are 57% of the poverty threshold. However, honourable Members, the most serious argument for me not to support this budget is the increase in retirement age for people in the mass third category of labour by four months in 2015. This is a reduction and limitation of the access to pension rights of a new, large group of Bulgarian citizens. This is not acceptable to society and causes serious tensions in it. And this is against the backdrop of the unchanging conditions for the first and second categories, because for objective reasons it is inevitable that the extension of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code and instead of the scissors between the retirement age for the first and third categories of work is gradually shrinking to eight years, as planned, it is increased to 11 years and 4 months for men. If pension reform is expected to be clear by the middle of the year, why should the freezing not apply to all categories of work, as we propose with a legislative initiative that you refuse to even consider? This creates injustice and opposition. The real effect will be a new decline in trust in the pension system and a reduction in the reasons for insurance. Also, you determine or rather restore increases in your previous management period from which the monetary compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is calculated from 18 to 24 months. It is pointless, unless the objectives thus reduce the amount of payout to mothers. You are violating the basic principle of insurance, which is to compensate for the loss of employment income at the time of the occurrence of the insurance risk. There is no logic and justice to go back two years and the financial effect on the revenue side will be minimal. I don't want to suspect that you are doing this because it was part of the package of social measures adopted in the previous National Assembly. The freezing and the amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age at 340 BGN, as you had, by the way, frozen it for three and a half years in your previous management. It's not your policy, you're not helping demographics. Once again, you will gather the mothers to the Council of Ministers. They are frozen and do not change all other benefits for children and families. With the amendments to art. 101 of the Social Security Code removes the possibility that social disability pension, the additional payment of 25% of the social disability pension will be received together with another type of pension. In this way you exclude the possibility of the same disability risk of obtaining two types of pensions, which is contrary to the basic principles of social security, but your approach is damaging people with disabilities. They're already the most vulnerable part of our society. You had to arrange these payments legally through the social system, because you are thus practically reducing the pensions of those people who are already not high. Inconsiderate and hasty is this decision with a negligible budget effect, but for the individual it can have a crucial significance. With the proposed Draft Law on the State Social Security Budget 2015 the ruling majority does not offer vision, policies and measures, does not answer the main questions of stabilisation of insurance funds and the adequacy of benefits and pensions. All this, and I can list more, are motives that make me vote against the adoption of this budget. That is what I recommend to all Members of the National Assembly. Thus, by the way, they made the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute, which rejected it. When discussing a second reading of the budget of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria we will make motivated proposals: First the benefit for raising a child from one to two years to be linked to the minimum wage and to its size. The second proposal to increase the period for calculating the benefit for pregnancy and childbirth from 18 to 24 months and to increase the minimum unemployment benefit to 60% of the minimum wage. Next proposal is stopping the increase in age and internship for the retirement of a third category of work. Finally, the introduction of flexible retirement conditions. Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u195	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This budget of state social security focuses mainly on policies to expand the insurance base without increasing the amount of social security contributions. The relationship between the insurance contribution and the amount of pensions received and benefits of the insured persons is strengthened. In my speech, I was going to focus on the policies, but enough here in the Chamber was said by the governor of the National Insurance Institute and also by the reports themselves. In the context of slow economic growth, it is very difficult to pursue a social policy that adequately satisfies the needs, needs and expectations of society. We all want high pensions, high maternity and benefits, but we also need to be aware of the stability of the insurance system. This is what spending policy in the State Social Security Budget Project for 2015. The biggest item of the expenditure of the State Social Security budget is the payment of pensions. So I'm gonna go with the pension system. The big problem of the Bulgarian pension system is its instability and unpredictableness. Let us recall what the 40th National Assembly adopted with the votes of the then majority.................. the lifting of age and the retirement internship for one year, with the agreement that a lasting and long-term solution will be found during this year, i.e. 2014...................................... Unfortunately, there was no such solution. Notice, the pension reform that GERB made in 2012 was frozen by the ruling majority, but not cancelled. What does that say? The truth is that with purely populist and purely election purposes was frozen the increase in age and retirement in 2014. A law without logic, without thinking about the future and the stability of the pension system. The people who were due to retire in 2015 were in the dark for a year. They didn't know and wandered under what conditions they would retire from January 1, 2015. There was no one to tell them all year. We also received criticism from the European Union because of this thoughtless act of the Oresharski cabinet. I would like to stress once again that this gross, populist mistake has brought no good to current and future pensioners. Nor did the number of pensioners in Bulgaria decrease in 2014, on the contrary it increased and the incomes of Bulgarian pensioners increased significantly. They barely increased by 2.7% by the so-called Golden Swiss rule, for which they were fond of BSP, and now Mr. Gokov wants me to change the formula. What about this formula who introduced it, Mr. Gokov? Is it GERB? This formula was introduced by you, so you change it. Changes in the pension system, colleagues, cannot be made in pieces and this must be clear to everyone. We don't have the right to experiment with the pension system anymore today we're gonna change something here, we're gonna push something else tomorrow. These changes must be made in the package as they were made in 2012. There is no way we can get high pensions without reforms in the pension system. To spend some money, we have to collect it, but no one tells us where we're gonna get that money. Nobody's saying where that money's gonna come from. Did you know that the deficit in the Pension Fund is now nearly 2 billion. Lev?! Everyone says, "Let's give!" Our pension system, honourable Members, is cost-effective. What does that mean? That with the insurance money of the workers, pensions should be paid to the pensioners. In practice, however, there is no money for pensions, as the money that is paid from insurance does not reach 55% of the pension money is financed from the state budget. It is no coincidence that for this reason, we made changes in 2012 in the pension system to stabilize it and to reduce pressure on the insurance system due to the demographic crisis. We all need to be clear that the pension system of each country must be stable, secure and ultimately citizens must have confidence in it. All these policies, which have been listed by the Governor of the National Insurance Institute and by Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, are implemented in the budget of state social security, aim and lead to greater trust in the pension system, to more lasting decisions on the financial stability of the pension system as a whole. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that the budget of state social security for 2015 should be supported in order to have confidence in order to have stability and security for our pension system, for current and future pensioners to be able to receive higher incomes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I didn't want to give you a line at all, but you mentioned my name and I can't help but take the floor as a line. First of all, I want to tell you that the rules have really been adopted, but you have not followed these rules for three years. If you had respected them for these three and a half years, a minimum increase, as it is now, 1.9.2%, now people's pensions would be at least 6.8% higher than their current levels. And you, for three and a half years, have deliberately broken the law, art. 100 of the Social Security Code. So now let's talk about some change in the rules of who to make them... After all, you are now ruling the country. You take responsibility for what's going to happen. Freezing age is not the solution to problems. This was shown by the pension reform that has been under way since 1999. 15 years have passed so far. We're increasing the age, and there's no results at the exit. The pension system is becoming more unstable and more unstable. The funding is already above 52% If we increase the retirement age from January 1st by 4 months tomorrow, do you think we'll reduce the percentage of the DVO's budget funding to the pension fund by less than 52%? If that's the case, say it, do the math and tell me why by four months. Why not 10 months, why not half a month, why not one month? The Minister of Labour and Social Policy wants two months, only nobody says why. That is why we proposed last year, and we propose that we now freeze her age for a third category of work until we find an adequate solution. And you know very well why we could not find such an adequate solution last year because of the paid protests and the fall of the government. That's why! Otherwise, there are ready solutions in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy................................................................................................... Let's talk about it. Let's focus on some of them and decide what we're doing, but not chaotic. And I ask again, why are four and not two or five months older? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u199	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u200	Dear Mrs. Angelova, as a member of the Transport Commission, I shouldn't be interested in the problems of social security. I should be interested in BDZ, for example. However, listening to this discussion here in the Chamber, I am ashamed as a Bulgarian MP. First, I begin by saying that there is not a single minister to my right, given that we are talking about the fate of 2 million. 170,000 pensioners, and thousands more mothers, and thousands more farmers, and thousands more socially weak. And there's not a single minister sitting here listening to what the MPs say to him! Second of all, I'm ashamed, of course, of the empty room. And it's our fault now. In third place, I'm ashamed of this document. [[shows him]] called the Report on the State Social Security Budget Bill by the Council of Ministers and, above all, by the policies in it. And in fourth place, I'm ashamed of what you said. I'm done with your words. You said it was a budget that would restore trust in the insurance system. Now let me read you some of the policies and tell me how you return your trust. First policy. From 1 January 2015 the retirement age is increased by 4 months. Since 2000, retirement age has increased by 4 years for men, by 6 years for women. The average life expectancy increased by one year and four months. Do you know what it feels like in the Bulgarian society while you retire and die? And there's no trust in the insurance system! That's what it feels like. And that's what you have to do to create a policy that increases life expectancy. And social policy is part of it, not part of the opposite. I'm moving on to the second policy. Upgrading of pensions by 1.9% "6.00 BGN," 20 pennies a day for 2 million. 190,000 pensioners. What Bulgarian pensioner increases his trust in the social system because of these 20 pennies?! There isn't one! The increase of the minimum pension by BGN 2,94 "The increase of the minimum pension by 9 pennies per day."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u201	You can make a statement. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u202	I'm graduating, Madam President. Once upon a time there were ministers, where they were told the Minister 10%, now there will be ministers, where they will be called Ministers 9 cents, because with so much increase the pension of the weak. Even the weak are seven pennies a day, and the others are nine pennies. And I finally get to your favorite theme a few days ago we talked about this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u203	You don't have time, Mr. Kadyev, for your favorite topic. Two minutes and 42 seconds! Your group is the strictest in their wishes for me to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u204	Can you give me 20 more seconds?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u205	I won't give you 20 seconds. You'll ask for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u206	And it is for Bulgarian mothers, which is an important topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u207	You will take a statement on purpose, Mr. Kadiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u208	There's no point in this thing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u209	Next line, Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u210	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, we already know why Social Minister Kalfin is not in this room. Obviously, you and him are not speaking or not paying attention in his speeches, but he announced today that he will submit a proposal between first and second readings to him or his deputies to increase the retirement age from next year by two months. Then all this talk of non-alternativeity, for predictability, for clarity, for contemplation of the pension reform you put in place where will they go?! I will be very curious to hear your speeches between first and second readings, as well as to follow your vote, because one can only be so explicit when one is convinced, first of all, of the effect of what it offers, and second of all, that you will not change your mind literally in a week. But in the fact that the effect is counterproductive, I think you've convinced everyone who's spent the election campaign among the people. Because a mechanical increase in retirement age is not a reform of the pension system. This is simply an inability for some people to retire, which some of them will never reach at these unemployment rates. Given that the average life expectancy is 71.8 calendar years, some of the people, if you continue in this spirit with this pension reform of yours, will leave this world without ever receiving a pension. You are making the easiest decisions.. mechanical increase in age, without justification, without explanation. And at the same time, as we will see literally in a week.. I will be very curious to see this scene....................that you will have to do what you have said today..... just vote it back, or simply declare from this tribune that you will hold on your four months. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Besides, I don't know if you understand, but the unions are also preparing a big protest because they, too, disagree with your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u212	You are alone, without the minister and without the citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u213	A hole, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u214	Madam President, honourable Members, I will respond first to Mrs Manolova's reply. Everyone has the right to make proposals between first and second readings, so you will wait for the deadline that we will vote on between first and second readings, and you will find out what proposals will be made. With regard to the other two colleagues, Kadyev and Gokov, who gave me a line. A good, bad, pension reform that we made in 2012 was with a long-term horizon to stabilise and strengthen the pension system to respond to the challenges of the demographic crisis and ageing population. What did you fellow Members do on the left this year while you were in charge? One year you beat the ball and didn't do anything for these people, nor did you significantly increase their pensions, nor did you tell them what rules they would retire from January 1st 2015. Now you're riding the broom of populism again. You're freaking out and you're telling me what needs to be done. Why didn't you do it a year ago when you had all the power resources? Now you have once again introduced a bill to freeze age, to increase age and internship for retirement and to early retirement for those who lack experience and age. This, the same bill, you brought it in here last year, and it was not supported thanks to the fact that the DPS showed intelligence thanks to the fact that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was Dr. Hasan Ademov, who best understands the pain of the pension system. You know very well, colleagues on the left, and you understand that retirement age and internship should be increased. He can't stay on this level. But you don't say it out loud because you don't like it. Because this is the straw you have taken to manipulate Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u215	Dear MPs, so far there have been requests made by six MPs for a speech. We'll take a break, then we'll continue the debate. Holiday till 5:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u216	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. The hearing is ongoing. There are MPs who have expressed a desire to take part in the debates. We should now listen to Mr. Ademov. You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Petkov, Mrs. Gancheva! Firstly, I would like to thank my colleagues at the National Insurance Institute (NSI) for the fact that, on the basis of the matrix proposed by the Ministry of Finance, they have drawn up the draft budget of the State Social Security on the basis of the legislation in force. Next, I would like to call on my fellow Members to enter the Chamber because this is one of the most important budgets, because this is the budget, which practically allocates more than one third of all expenditure in the state budget. This budget concerns problems that concern all Bulgarian citizens.. starting before birth, because benefits for pregnancy and birth are paid; for the birth itself; after birth.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why this budget is so important, as it is extremely comprehensive, and that is why the majority or all of the MPs must be present here in this House, because the questions that are being asked in the foster institutions are related to this budget. I would like to say a few words about what is written in the draft budget for next year. First of all, our claims are in terms of natural indicators, as we believe that a large part of them are at a very low level. For example: low targets in terms of employed and insured. It is proposed that the insured will be increased by only 900 people in the following year. Note, with 900 people! Next, the number of unemployed with the right to compensation is proposed to be reduced by 2100 people. Next, the average insurance income increases by BGN 31. In our opinion, these are indicators that are quite, quite low targets. Next, I would like to say a few words about revenue. Again, as in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and in this budget, the income from insurance contributions provides for 146 million more than insurance contributions. By the nine months in the Fund, I am referring to a deficit of 19 million compared to this year's programme. By the end of the year, however, according to the National Revenue Agency, the proposed programme will be implemented, but with only a few million, maybe about 30 million, according to preliminary data, which means that the estimated 146 million is nowhere to be taken. My fellow Members, given that we are predicting an economic growth of 0.8% next year, given that unemployment rates remain the same, we cannot extend the base, we cannot find those people who will make these contributions, moreover, that we offer a reduction in wage costs, understand about administration, by 400 million, of which 100 million are insurance contributions. Where will these additional 146 million come from is the big question that is being posed to both reformers and the ruling quadruple coalition? Because that's how business and insured persons are reloaded. This is one of the main ones, ladies and gentlemen. The conclusion we can draw is that the workload of employers with new 146 million will be a problem in terms of employment, in terms of hiring more labour. This will inevitably lead to layoffs, which are extremely unpleasant "you know very well. I want to try to debunk a mantra that is trying to understand here from the state social security budget to distribute, and it is that in 2014 a social policy has been made based on an increase in debt, based on debt financing. Honourable Members, if this thesis were true, there would not have been at the end of the year in the budget of state social security the estimated 80 million. lv. savings, which means savings from the transfer that makes the State. And here's the big discussion. There were positive assessments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's activities during the last period, last year or during the current, during our governance, for which I thank. However, negative assessments have also been heard, which I find difficult to agree with, because if this were true, how would you answer the question that the only two operational programmes approved by the European Commission are the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and the Operational Programme, which was approved last Friday and is called the "European Fund for the Support of the Most Deprived Citizens"? So we have to seriously think about it when we make assessments, because I repeat, the two only programmes that have been approved by the European Commission, you know, can't be prepared in 20 days or in a month? They were prepared by the previous team. I'm taking this opportunity to thank everyone I've had the opportunity to work with. I would also like to say a few words about the so-called 'cost policies' and, more precisely, what is extremely important in the next budget, the so-called'retirement reform'. Honourable Members, this discussion must be balanced enough, calm enough, long enough to be discussed, because there are no quick solutions in this area. There is no decision to take now and to act on from 1 January 2015. All these and hypotheses that are being discussed will unfortunately again find a place in the next budget adopted between first and second readings. There are different positions, there are different opinions, but understand, I say it from my many years of experience, from work in this area: there are not only fair solutions here. There's less unfair. Remember that! It's very important. Here are a few numbers: according to the project men next year have to retire at 64 years, women of 61 years of men with 38 years of internship, and women with 35. Colleagues, see how effective retirement age is in Bulgaria. For men 64 and a half years this is the real age at which the third category is retired; women 61 years and three months. See what Eurostat, the European Union says: the effective retirement age for men is 61 years and seven months, the women are the same as in Bulgaria - 61 years and three months. So we need to think seriously about whether we need to solve the structural problem, the structural deficit of the pension system only with measures at the exit, because a generation is unable to bear the burden of reform. Dear colleagues, we are not opposed to making decisions, but they should not be hasty. So my request is that there be no increase in age next year, because it is increased enough. During these 14 years for men the age was increased by 4 years, for women by 6 years; the internship for men was increased by 13 years, for women by 15 years. There is no European country in which there is such an increase in age and internship. However, in any case, in accordance with the demographic picture in Bulgaria, we cannot escape the solution of this issue, but in any case we have to offer a chronogram, a timetable written in time, which will be sustainable and supported by all political forces. The movement for rights and freedoms and the pre-election situation, and now, we are talking about an out-of-party agreement. Honourable colleagues, coalition partners, reformers and GERB, you have a match of a large part of your election messages, but you do not agree on the most important ones. One of the topics on which you do not agree is pension reform. That is, if you want to share the responsibility among all, be so kind as to seek consent. At this point, I don't see any such measures. I would like to say a few more words about two policies. Dear colleagues, you are increasing the reference period for the insurance risk of pregnancy and childbirth. What does that mean? The amount of compensation received by mothers for the insurance risk of pregnancy and childbirth shall be calculated under the legislation in force over a period of 18 months. Now you propose this period, I don't know why, to be increased by another 6 months. You understand that this reduces the insurance protection, decreases by 12 leva. the available income of pregnant women, mothers. Why are we hitting? It's about six or seven million, maybe I'm wrong about the number. It's not about any fiscal effect at all. Then why are you doing this?! Because there were incorrect payers because there were incorrect lawbreakers. If there are incorrect ones, punish them. Why do you extend this unpopular measure to all other rightful paying companies? I don't see the point in that, and we're going to propose that this text be dropped. Next, a very important issue, the so-called social disability pension. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, I'm graduating. Colleagues, for those who do not know what this is about, I explain very briefly. The person who receives an internship and age pension goes to TelK, is certified and receives, in addition to a percentage of reduced performance and type, and a degree of disability that serves him in the social support system. This is a long discussion, but it should not in this way affect the rights of people with disabilities. This is part of the big discussion on the transfer of non-employment pensions to social assistance and thus cannot be resolved. We will not support the proposed project. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u218	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Kadyev, first line, Mr. Bayraktarov, second line. [[Heckling]] Mr. Kadiev, Mrs. Cornelia Ninova has made a request for a statement from your group. You have a little more than three minutes, two, fifty-three. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] Mr. Bayraktarov. Do they have time? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u219	Mr. Ademov, you must be right. I would be convinced that you are sincere if a detailed analysis of the so-called "retirement" was carried out, because there the analysis shows that this particular group, as you call it, is almost 60% disabled. Isn't that right? I would have agreed with you if you had asked another question related to social benefits and we fought together against the profession of an underage mother, because there is already a profession in Bulgaria that brings serious income to these minority groups. I would have been sure that you are sincere if you had put the question not only about the occupation of an underage mother, but also about the business with children, because Bulgaria is glorified in the world with business and sale of children. Then I'd be convinced that you're sincere, but otherwise you're probably right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u220	I have 60 pages on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u221	Second line? A hole, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I do not know exactly how to respond to your reply, as it can be meaningful and sincere on your part if it is consistent with the principles of social security. There is a text that says that there should be a level playing field between all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their ethnic, religious and whatever belongings. Because you're talking about an ethnic group taking advantage of those rights that give them social security. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, you're asking if we have an analysis? We have an analysis from the National Insurance Institute. The colleagues have prepared an extremely detailed analysis, if you want to meet him. The number of people who receive this quarter is over 500 thousand and these are Bulgarian pensioners - our mothers and fathers, our parents, your parents, dear Mr. Bajraktarov, who are entitled under the current legislation. If there is anyone who has broken the legislation, there is a separate order on how to solve these issues, but we cannot extrapolate, blame absolutely everyone who gets this quarter. Besides, 386 grand, if I'm not mistaken, but I think it's accurate, are the people who have the right to a disability pension. This pension we are talking about is an additional pension, an additional income to the pension, which is for internship and age. So whether there is discrimination or there is no discrimination; whether there is an incentive for one ethnic group or another, I can answer you perfectly. There are no such texts in the legislation as to discriminate or give additional rights according to ethnicity. The rights are for all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnic or religious origin. So in social legislation, which has also been approved by the European Commission, I can tell you that in Bulgaria's preparation for accession to the European Union in the negotiating chapters second and thirteenth, for which the Social Ministry is responsible and for which the Social Committee was responsible, there is not a single yellow point. European observers are careful enough and they watch closely what the Bulgarian legislation says. If someone broke the law, that's another topic, then I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u223	Mr. Velizar Enchev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u224	Madam President, absent ministers, colleagues, honourable representatives of the Bulgarian media! So far, I have heard many true findings, ideas and suggestions, both on the left and on the right, and especially from the honourable Mr. Ademov, who in this area is an undisputed authority. Why do I feel like I didn't hear something very important that the CST proposed last night and which partly explains and more precisely gives the recipe for solving the problem of missing money in the budget needed not only for pensions, but at all for social needs? After all, in a country where customs are possessed by corruption, and tax services do not work effectively when they do not have that money, what is the outcome? He's saving up. Economies and radical reforms are being made as cuts. What's he offering from last night's CST? They argue that, in order for new revenues to occur next year, between 400 and 500 million. lv. two actions need to be carried out immediately. Firstly, criminalising the non-payment of insurance contributions something that was rejected by the previous parliament in the last days of its existence. Secondly, to impose a tax on bank transactions. Why the first criminalisation of non-payments was rejected is very clear. Since there is a powerful lobby of large companies in Bulgaria in this Parliament, I am talking about the Bulgarian companies, some of which, I do not say all, pay under the table of their workers. Let me get this straight, of course I'm not going to support the state social security budget. Here, Mr. Kalfin, a moment ago, it was a pity that he had gone away. He said that if we give only 10 levs. of the Bulgarian pensioner this means a huge burden for the budget about 300 million. lv. Well, just now, the CST told us where this money could be taken. Naturally, if in this Parliament, if you have this political will and part with your lobbying, not to use a stronger word. This budget is antisocial. It is unnecessary to say it, but it is something worse, honourable colleagues, in this budget pensions not only do not increase, not only do not freeze, in this budget because of the famous Swiss rule pensions decrease. You remember last year, July 1st, they were increased under Mr. Oresharski's government by 2.7 percent, and now they're rising because of this Swiss rule by 1.9. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is not Switzerland. Obviously here are the colleagues from GERB party, if, of course, I have understood them correctly that the Swiss rule should be reviewed. With good intentions was introduced by BSP, but as you can see the results for a country like Bulgaria are not very good. This budget increases age and retirement insurance by four months. What's on top of that, fellow Members? On what top is increased by four months after Bulgaria is the sickest country in the European Union, with the highest mortality rate, a country in which men and women receive at least their pensions after retirement. In men, it's between 7 and 8 years, and in women, it's 9 years. Well, in this situation, can you increase not by four months, not even four days? It just has to go away. I disagree with Mr. Kalfin, who insists on a two-month increase. There shouldn't be any increase at the age and internship for retirement. I know what will be answered on the right side of the Chamber that in Bulgaria pensions are 10% of the gross domestic product is formal, but you know that in Europe the cost of pensions as a share of gross domestic product is about 12-13%, so this is not fatal. In addition, Bulgaria is in a group with countries such as Denmark, Hungary, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Spain, where the percentage is so divided for pensions from gross domestic product, but how is it lived there? How do you live in Luxembourg? And I'm gonna graduate. Since we cannot increase pensions, as I said for objective and subjective reasons, first of all, because of the poor work of revenue agencies and customs, since we have to redistribute and save, I am making a concrete proposal, which, of course, is the result of yesterday's proposals for Budget 2015. Here's what I suggest and several times I have said it to this tribune to give 13th pension, so I call it, there may be another name, it may be called a Christmas supplement, although the more accurate name is a New Year's supplement, you know why I call it a New Year's supplement, but the exact name after consulting Mr. Ademov a few days ago is 13th pension, but not a whole but a quarter of it and only for the pensioners below the poverty line. The sources I pointed out yesterday are the production of party subsidies, the NGO and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u225	You will have the opportunity between first and second readings, Mr. Enchev, to make a concrete proposal. - What's the line? I won't. The next MP who has declared a wish to speak is Mr. Kenov from the Bulgarian Democratic Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u226	Madam President, honourable Members! Most things have already been said. I'll be brief. I regret that the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is not here today among us. I would very much like to understand how the Minister will implement the demographic policy of this government through the state budget and budget of the DVO in Bulgaria. For reforms, another third budget, which is not the case. Many of you colleagues have talked about politics. I do not see the policies in this budget. Once again, I'm going to mark the most important things for me. The budget of state social security reiterated the ideology of previous budgets. It can certainly be said that the budget for 2015 will not increase the quality of life of the Bulgarian citizen. More money will be raised while not increasing in proportion the circle and volume of the provided social services. With regard to the maximum monthly amount of insurance income, an increase of 2400 BGN. at 2,600, with 75% increase in minimum insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers, 4.4% increase in minimum insurance thresholds. The increase in the maximum social security income must be linked to a change in the threshold of the maximum pension and replacement income. Once again, the question arises: why, when the amount of pensions is calculated on the basis of a formula, is it necessary to have a maximum pension amount? How does this correspond to activating payment of insurance, real income, provided that they do not receive adequate replacement income? Some of the colleagues speculated that it was only tobacco producers. Colleagues, in Bulgaria there are many vegetable producers, orchards, small livestock farmers. These people pay insurance like individuals. These are voters of not only mine, not just our colleagues from the DPS, these are our voters, of each of us. Yesterday, I mentioned that by my calculations, we're taxing them with income, like they're getting 16 grand. lv. Annually. These people don't get that kind of money. Insurance on the size of 1000 BGN. It's just unthinkable to get together with these people. Please, between first and second reading do the necessary check, check it again, this thing to be removed and over time this problem to be cleared. Several colleagues said: "It is more important to illuminate the people who do not pay insurance at the moment. Let's stimulate them, oblige them to import insurance, ask them for applications for insurance for projects, apply for this aid of 1250 euros, make it a requirement, see who the farmer really is, whether he is registered as one, whether he pays his insurance, and then subsidize him, and not just one help to hand it over to a hat, and on the other hand, exactly the people who pay to hit them. There have been substantial changes in spending policy. As from 1 January 2015, the age and retirement insurance service increased by four months. We are against this proposal. According to the Swiss rule, the maximum amount of one or more pensions received is effectively increased from 840 to 910 BGN. The minister said the replacement income was 50%. But if you make a simple account at 2,600 leva. maximum taxable income, even if we calculate BGN 910, which is on July 1st, becomes 35%. Or if I pay on £2,600. A salary of 37 years as much as an internship, I'll pay about 150,000. lv. With a pension of £910. I should get 13 and a half years. But according to the life expectancy of men in Bulgaria, I will most likely live only 6 years after pension...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u227	You never know.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u228	So eight and a half years remains for the state. That's why we're talking about adequacy. According to the NSI, the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age changes according to the pension update rule, reaching an increase of 8.5%. The average pension amount of a pensioner in 2015 is expected to become BGN 319,99. In the case of an expected amount for 2014 BGN 308,53. At the same time, the CST calculates other data. According to the modernization under the Swiss rule, however, it is expected to increase by 1.9% or people with minimum pensions of BGN 154.50. receive BGN 157,44 and those with an average of BGN 308 to BGN 314. The term of § 4 for the retirement of the category workers shall be extended. We believe that there should be a cardinal change here. This whole deposition thing isn't gonna work. Especially with regard to the three types of workers, those working underground, underwater and in the air. And my favorite subject. The increase in the period for calculating maternity from 18 to 24 months. Why? Who needs mothers to get smaller mothers? Who needs this? Colleagues, one Bulgarian father and one Bulgarian mother, together, pay insurance for nearly 80 years, calculating it. Just because they received low incomes at the beginning of their service does not mean that they will not bring together a total of 80 years. So I wanted to ask Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic Policy where is the demographic and social policy of the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy? According to the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, the budget of the DOO hits the small and poor. Yesterday I heard that the state budget will be a budget of stability, of security, of peace, of opportunity for development. In my opinion, this is the stability of the demographic catastrophe, the certainty that people will become poorer. I do not see calmness for whom there may be, but an opportunity for development of only the gray sector in agriculture. I would like to conclude with a quote: "If free society can't help the poor, it can't protect the rich and it's not Marx's, it's John Kennedy's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u229	- What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Mariana Todorova of the ABB Parliamentary Group has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u230	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will try to be brief so that I do not abuse your patience. The budget of state social security for this year in philosophy is no different from the previous years. That is why we will support it, but we will not remain uncritical and we will propose some adjustments between first and second readings, wishing for the coming years Bulgaria to construct not a budget of the previously lowered parameters, but a budget of priorities. For the ABB, a priority is the change in the pension system, because in this condition it does not work and generates only low pensions, and we clearly realize that isolated measures will not give a solution. Neither the increase in age and internship nor the increase in social security contributions nor the increase in taxes will give a decision. Therefore, we will insist on complex measures that mutually complementary will bring about the necessary change. We rely very much on a public discussion to be initiated by Deputy Prime Minister and Social Minister Ivaylo Kalfin, so that the discussion is closed not only politically and expertly, but to have civil awareness and consent to accept this new change and reform. First of all, we will support the slower and smoother increase in age and internship, as for us four months is a steep rise and we believe that we will load one particular generation in this way, and that is not fair. When we talk about reforms in this respect, we believe that freezing age and internship is not a solution. Last year you had that kind of approach. In one year no solution has been found, so we do not believe that if we repeat this step now, we will find a new solution. When we talk that the demographic profile of the population is the reason we freeze age, we need to see that this is a counterpoint of this opinion. Because according to UN data, Bulgaria is among the ten nations with the fastest ageing population, i.e. with low birth rate and migration, this problem will stand, and the problem of increasing age and internship will stand. From the ABB we will also support the idea of the SRB to criminalise the concealment of insurance contributions. We will also look for a solution how pension funds and NSIs to interact so as to take the burden of a first and second category of retired persons until they reach a third category. In any case, we will be looking for such a solution so that when people retire they will have at least 70% of their income. Outside of the pension system, we do not believe that it is fair that the period at which maternity compensation is calculated will rise from 18 to 24 months, as we believe that mothers will thus postpone their family planning and birth. Therefore, we will insist that one of the few indirect mechanisms for stimulating the demographic profile should be maintained and that the age of 18 months should be maintained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u231	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Radan Kanev has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u232	Madam President, honourable Members! I will start by saying that the Reformation Block Group will support the state social security budget as proposed and will naturally have its active role between first and second readings. I would like to say something more, and it is that this budget has already been voted on by voting yesterday on the Republican budget. I heard from colleagues that he suffered from the same vices. It would be very disturbing if you were suffering from different vices. It's inevitable that he suffers from the same. It is unnecessary for me to repeat the criticisms we have had about the republican budget project. The main problem is the same problem, namely that this is the same capital base of the state social security budgets of the past, and in the most painful part, namely that the Republican budget itself is being formed primarily by seeing how large the deficit of state social security will be, how severe the deficit of the Fund will be and accordingly predicting the necessary transfer from Republican budgets to that of state social security. This is the main factor for the deficits, the main factor for the poverty and the scarceness from which the Republican budget itself suffers, of course, and for the amount of pensions for which we have all been practicing this afternoon so refreshingly and creatively. Of course, since the revenues in the State Social Security Funds, especially the revenues in the Pension Fund, are extremely insufficient to cover even these miserable levels of pensions that the National Insurance Institute is currently paying, naturally the problem of pensions will be sharp, however much money we manage to pour out from the central budget. The inability to reduce this deficit is the main problem of Bulgarian budgeting for many years and it deepens annually. A bold step towards solving this problem has not been taken so far. Obviously, we're not gonna do it this year. However, it is necessary to gradually balance the budget of state social security, which will allow and gradually release more serious amounts than the Republican budget and enable the government to have a more prudent investment policy. In order to balance the budget of state social security, we obviously also need to look at its entrance, i.e. the amounts that enter into it and its exit, i.e. the pensions that it pays. It has also been done in the current draft of the IPO budget in this regard. It has been done, including the painful measure to increase the income on which farmers are provided, as it was done at all times with self-employed persons; it has also been done with the increase of minimum insurance thresholds. I will not hide my position and the fact that we are part of the majority today, and we have been in opposition before, should not change it, that this is essentially a logger's approach. To tax equally the self-employed people who live and develop their professional activities in Vidin with those who live and develop their professional activities in Sofia is an extremely controversial mechanism. In Vidin to take out of business as a self-employed person 420 lv. A month is a difficult, often impossible task. In Sofia, this is about the minimum rent for a very modest room where you develop this activity. I am not the only practicing lawyer in this room to know what a lawyer needs to make a month in Sofia to be able to exercise his profession at all, and to know what a colleague in Breznik makes. The only colleague in Breznik keeps the firm locked down because the stall he sells tomatoes to is across the street. These are real facts. I don't know if it's being used as a farmer, but it's going to be very difficult for her if she has to pay twice on £420. since the beginning of next year. She'll probably close the firm, and the stall will leave because she has more work to do. It is quite clear that the minimum insurance thresholds in professions cannot remain the same for a long time throughout the country. This has two content logics in it. One logic is that, obviously, in the poorest parts of the country, the minimum insurance thresholds already rely on the minimum and often the average incomes that really employers can pay for the profession. The other is that by reducing the minimum thresholds in the poorest areas we will finally do something to encourage employers to open jobs there. Since I know the counterargument that there will be great abuse, it is high time to stop the inability of state control authorities to do their job tagging it on the back of people who manage to do their job by creating jobs or developing some small business. It is clear that the control authorities will have to work much more seriously. This is the next thing we need to think about next year. The model for collecting the contributions due to the state social security from the National Revenue Agency proved to be quite unfortunate. There are extremely few revisions of state social security. The control of employers is greatly reduced compared to when the NSI was doing this job. With similar measures at the entrance as we take with this budget, there will be an increase in revenue. It is important so that we can simply meet next year's expenses. I agree with the colleagues who said that maybe the four-month step a year is pretty brave. At the same time, I am strongly opposed to the delay or another freezing of this measure. Postponement of solutions cannot help solve problems. Perhaps a compromise step of two months plus what Minister Kalfin talked about a serious long-term strategy at exactly what pace retirement age is increasing and at what pace, if necessary, increases contributions and receipts at the Insurance Institute, is the correct solution. A few more words with regard to farmers, because it is not irrelevant. Here we are facing two very serious alternatives. One that we propose and will obviously be accepted at the moment is that farmers will be aligned to the other self-employed persons and the minimum income will be 420 BGN. I realize that for many of them this is the real one, even over their real income, that is, a heavy tax, and that the jump is very large. There will most likely be a process of de-registered with this, I also agree. However, we need to understand what the other alternative is. Any lower amount of minimum insurance income for any self-employed person means that the amount on which it is provided throughout its life does not cover the minimum pension for the country. In this case, we must assume that in Bulgaria there will be lower minimum pensions for certain people, to whom the profession and the craft provide very low incomes. This is particularly important when we are trying to spread the provision to the poorest areas of the population. Here we return to the Roma communities again. There are many who practice traditional crafts for which they receive a reward either in barter, or in a monthly equivalent significantly below BGN 420. Let's expect them to be provided at £420. and thus become part of the solidarity systems, is an untenable expectation. We need to think about whether we can predict lower insurance benefits and accordingly a lower specific amount of minimum pension that could possibly be combined with social assistance. Here I am making a transition to measures at the exit of a pension system. The first thing is that we have to get used to the inevitable relationship between the insurance income and the amount of the pension. This means that there may be lower minimum pensions than today to be compensated precisely through social support only if the person has no other income, because he may be retired, but he may also be the owner of agricultural land and receive rent, or the owner of a store and receive rent, and so on. Indeed, we must eliminate other existing distortions and discrepancies in the pension system, among which this is the least for farmers. Naturally, we must also think about civil servants, about specific uniform categories. This will not happen from today to tomorrow, but in our attitude to these issues we must root out the philosophy that early retirement is a good thing. Thousands of opportunities for early retirement are a mimic of late socialism to cover the levels of unemployment that already exist in the Bulgarian economy and to create a false idea of full employment, which the economy does not actually create. There's nothing good about a qualified specialist being retired early. On the contrary, many people in the early 1990s suffered under the rules then, especially women, that at the age of 55 they had to leave a good job and devote themselves to life with a miserable pension and humiliating for their qualifications, such as security, cleaning and so on. We need to do a serious analysis of the state of universal pension funds, because very soon comes the date when those born after 1959 will begin to expect a pension from them. And we will postpone with another year the decision on those insured in professional pension funds, but again we will not give any answer to the problem. There is one big problem and it is that some of the people provided in professional pension funds have quite satisfactory amounts accumulated on their accounts, and some of the people have extremely low amounts accumulated on their accounts, apparently having no control over employers for years. And I do not know whether for one of the parliamentary groups in the present National Assembly, so passionate campaigning against the State Social Security Budget is not related to the fact that some of their MPs are directly dependent on a person who owes huge sums to the private funds for early provision of categorical workers in Bulgaria. In conclusion, the support of the State Social Security Budget can only be given against guarantees that Minister Kalfin is currently giving, and this is satisfying, to start very serious reforms, especially the pension system since the beginning of 2015. Thank you. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u233	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I won't. The last person to sign up is Mrs Cornelia Ninova. You have three minutes, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u234	Yes, I will. Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, a strange split of personality has covered both the parties in the ruling majority and the ministers in the government. Mr. Kalfin said here: "I am against increasing internship and age every year by four months, but I am bringing you this budget. Vote four months each year. A colleague from GERB said: "We are against solving the problem in a piece, we want a complex solution to the problem and you import and you will vote a budget that solves something in a piece. Other colleagues said: "We will support a smoother increase in internship and age and will soon vote for an increase by four months. There have been other cases of inconsistencies in Bulgarian politics, but somehow politicians have renounced their words in some period of time. You're innovators because within one sentence, you say your own thesis and deny it yourself. Moreover, you know that between first and second reading there is no way and you will not change the budget of the DVO, because you will also have to update the big budget before it has already entered into force, as the big one has already been adopted, and it contains the DVO budget. I'm saying this politically, you don't look serious! Sit down and figure out what you're doing. As far as your arguments are concerned, they don't hold up, colleagues. The first one, Europe, wanted us to do so and made notes. By these indicators, Europeans have long reached and surpassed them. They retire three years on average earlier than the Bulgarians, and live seven years more on average than the Bulgarians. The duration of life there is greater by seven years. Your other argument doesn't have any money in the NOI. Yes, you won't, but you don't offer a complex solution. You are proposing a solution only at the exit to reduce the number of pensioners in order to make less costs. And at the entrance to the Budget Act, it says nothing. No more jobs, no more insurance collections. This is a unilateral solution to the issue and it says one thing: the state withdraws from solving this problem and leaves everything in the hands of the people. You're on your own. You don't accept early retirement either. Why, guys? It's not worth a penny on the budget. Early retirement by 0.4 percent lower pension for the rest of life does not cost budget money. And this is not an escape from the problem that will reduce the unemployed. The unemployed would have been reduced if you had recorded growth in the budget of the employed. It's gone, too. Moreover, the state is not only fleeing from this group of people who are about to retire. With this budget, it is also an escape from the young, not just from the pensioners. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] I mean the reduction of motherhood by 12 BGN. You reach out to several groups of Bulgarian citizens through the budget and demonstrate absolute abdication of the state not only by social policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u236	...and politics at all. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u237	- What's the line? I won't. There are no others who have expressed their willingness to speak. Debates closed. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote the 2015 State Social Security Budget Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014. Please vote. Vote 157 MPs: 115 against 42 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Kadyev. Colleagues, I'm asking for patience in this room. There will be procedural proposals that will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you once again for the opportunity to express my negative vote. My fellow Members, I ask for 30 seconds' attention, I will be quite specific why I voted against. I voted against it because you want to increase by four months the age of people who hardly have time to take their pension. Two million 170 thousand pensioners thank you in quotes. I voted against it because you increase the pension of that 2 million. 170,000. people with 20 cents a month. I voted against it because you increase the minimum pension by 9 cents a day. Seven hundred thousand Bulgarian pensioners are on minimum pension. And instead of thinking about how to equalize incomes, we give them nine cents a day. I'm sure they thank you at this point. I voted against it because we increase the income of the social pension for old age by 7 pennies a day. I'm sure these people thank you, too. I voted against it because you increased the parameters of short-term compensation for mothers by increasing the period from 18 to 24 months, which is worth not 12 BGN. per month and costs 85 pennies per day, 22 working days per month to each Bulgarian mother. Thirty-five thousand mothers who are in this regime lose 18 leva. a month. And ask yourself why there are 55 thousand births in Bulgaria per year and 35 thousand mothers receive these benefits? Because, honourable Members, 20,000 mothers are not covered by social security at all. Here's the problem. That's where you should be doing the reform. None of the things you said today lead to reform. And thank you on behalf of these thousands of Bulgarian farmers, which you loaded with an additional 50 BGN. Insurance. Mr. Mestan tells you it's 210,000 farms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u239	Time's up, Mr. Kadyev. Thank you. Don't make me take your sound away.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u240	Seventy thousand registered, but only 30,000 of them in the NOI system. Everyone else is in the gray sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u241	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u242	Tomorrow will be zero. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u243	Thank you. Second negative vote? There aren't any. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u244	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 81, para. 1 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedure on the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, on the Draft Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015 and on the Draft Budget of the State Social Security for 2015, namely the deadline between the two readings to be until 18:00 on 14 December 2014, Sunday, and, Madam President, I ask you to ensure that Sunday is a working day for the National Assembly's Office so that the Members of the National Assembly can deposit their proposals. [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u245	Colleagues, this is the only option for us to have a budget voted out by Christmas. If you want us to be in the Chamber by New Year's Eve, call me from a place on Saturday.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u246	The administration will work on Saturdays and Sundays.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u247	Have you completed your proposal, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u248	I think I did it. The deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the three budget by 18:00 on December 14th, on Sunday. I'm asking you to vote on it. In fact, we are reducing the deadline by just one day to have the opportunity on Monday to prepare the proposed changes between first and second readings, to see them on a committee on Tuesday and Wednesday, and by the end of the week, all three budgets to enter the plenary. So that on Monday the 22nd, we could have adopted laws, the president would issue the decree, on Tuesday we could have a promulgation in the State Gazette and by Christmas we could have a budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u249	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u250	Madam President, honourable Members! I think during the discussions we saw how many remarks there were, including from the ruling coalition. Do not rush things that require more time! Do not push a problem that depends on the income of the poorest, their insurance! [[Noise and lines from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u251	One day!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u252	I understand the great desire for all of this to go away quickly, all of this to get beat up and finally the poor guy to feel like a sack of flour again. [[Noise and lines from GERB and RB.]] Please! This day will decide nothing more than to make our vacation one day less. If this is more important to you than the big, important problems of the poor, vote to shorten this term. My opposite offer is to remain the normal term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u253	Mr. Ermenkov, our vacation will not be disrupted, but after the plenary a number of services in the National Assembly need at least one or two days "Final texts" to prepare. Are you suggesting that these people work on the 25th on Christmas Day, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u254	I never expected from the President of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-09.u255	To think about the administration. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Members of the Parliament, a procedural proposal has been made. As it refers to three separate bills, I will submit the procedure separately, although by content it is the same, in relation to each of these bills. Please vote on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal between the first and second votes on the Draft of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 to be made by Sunday, December 14, 18:00, which day will be working for the National Assembly. Vote 160 MPs: 133, against 24, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal... [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Please, guys! Colleagues! Mihov! ...the proposals between first and second readings under the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015 shall be made by 14 December, Sunday, 18:00. Vote 164 MPs: 134 against 27, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. And the last procedural proposal is the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2015 to be until 14 December, Sunday, 6:00 p.m. Voting mode. Vote 164 MPs: 128, against 32, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. I am adjourning today's extraordinary plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
