ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly has received a Draft for ratification of the loan agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and ECH EU BI BANK PI ELI, SOSITE GENENERAL, CITIBANK, EN EY (London branch) and UNICEDIT BULBANK. AD. In the role of registrators and authorized leading organizers, and UNICEDIT BANK (London branch) as agent, No 402-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2014. The ratification is discussed in the Committee on Budget and Finance and in the Committee on Foreign Policy. There is a report prepared, but it has not expired the term of our Rules of Procedure of 24 hours, which is why I propose on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of our Rules, as point 1 for tomorrow, Friday, December 12 2014 to include in our programme the Bill on the ratification of the Loan Treaty between the countries I quoted. Please vote on the inclusion of this Bill as point 1 for tomorrow, Friday. Please vote. They voted 170 MPs: 148, against 3, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to our weekly vote from yesterday. The first point is provided for: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW OF OWNITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 4 December 2014. Before that, a message. On 9 December 2014 the Employment Agency received an overview of the labour market, in the format of an e-book. By my letter, the material was provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. A report was submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs for the First Voting of a Draft Law amending the Property Act, No 402-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2014. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Allow me before presenting the report for the first vote on the bill, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to make a procedural proposal for admission to the plenary of Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Goddess Manoilova, State Expert at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mrs. Boyanka Georgieva, Chief Legal Consult at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u3	Please vote on the proposed admission to the House of the listed persons. Vote 150 MPs: 148, no objection, abstention 2. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u4	♪ I can't believe the Committee on Legal Affairs for the First Voting of a Draft Law amending the Property Act, No 402-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2014. At its meeting held on 9 December 2014, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending the Property Act. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Boyanka Georgieva, Chief Legal Consult at the Department of Legal Affairs, and Mrs. Goddess Manoilova, State Expert at the Directorate of State Property. The bill was presented by Mrs. Boyanka Georgieva. The proposed bill provides for a continuation of the extension of the period provided for in Paragraph 1 of the Law supplementing the Property Act for the suspension of the limitation of the acquisition of state and municipal properties for another three years with a view to maximum protection of the state and public interest. The extension of the deadline is necessary due to the pending process of the initial actuarial of state and municipal property, and will enable individualization of the properties with a view to establishing the existence or absence of non-activated and non-residential state and municipal properties and accordingly taking action to act. During the discussion took part the MPs Petar Slavov, Maya Manolova, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov, Rositsa Yanakieva-Kostadinova, Chavdar Georgiev, Filip Popov, Svilen Ivanov. After stressing that many natural and legal persons are affected by the extension of this deadline, Mr. Slavov raised the question about the indicative period within which these procedures will be completed. Mrs. Manoilova replied that all district governors, as well as the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, support this bill. Mrs. Manolova pointed out that the state and municipal interests should be protected, but should not be permanently extended by the regional governors and employees in the district directorates to be demotivated and undisciplined. Mr. Dimitrov stressed that the extension of the deadline has led to conflicting judgments and expressed doubts that the extension of three years will be sufficient. Mr. Georgiev pointed out that since this norm clearly does not work, it would be best if the deadline was extended until 31 December 2015. Mr. Delchev said he would submit a proposal between first and second readings to be two years. The Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the property law, without the opposition and 1 abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law amending the Property Act, No 402-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2014 and thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Do you have a wish on behalf of the importer? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, according to the opinion of the parliamentary group. On this point, the bloc's parliamentary group will vote on conscience without prior decision. There are serious arguments in both directions and we have not limited colleagues in this regard. I will express my personal and firm opinion that the ten-year practice of extending a moratorium, i.e. the extension of an exception in law, is now inadmissible. I will call on each of you in good conscience to vote against this moratorium. In Bulgaria, 1996 a legislative distinction was made between public private state and municipal property, public and private state and municipal property. The main difference with regard to the legal consequences as an effect on the individual citizen is precisely this can the state and municipal property be acquired by a private person by limitation? The private can be acquired, the public can't. From 1996 to 2006, the state and municipalities obviously did not do enough to protect their property rights, and we all know that in 2006 the most important factor for adopting this moratorium was the unresolved issue with the so-called royal estate. For the same reason, the moratorium was extended year-to-year, and often it was a political weapon to engage NDSV's support for certain political measures. 18 years are now running out of the day when the state and municipalities had to start defending their rights and act on their properties. For 18 years in Bulgaria the exception is valid, not the rule, and similar delays, thanks to which the exception applies and not the rule, are one of the main factors that poison the legal environment in Bulgaria, create lasting legal uncertainty, repulsion investors and stop the initiative of Bulgarian citizens. At present, no one can say how many state properties are unactivated, nor how many Bulgarian citizens and companies can solve the main problems of their family or their production, thanks to the fact that their property hangs in an unexplained legal situation. If we continue to postpone what is not done in 18 years, it will not be done in 180 years and legal uncertainty will continue to weigh on the Bulgarian citizens. I also understand the interest of the administration both to protect certain properties and to protect its own laziness, which apparently lasts too long. We here, however, are not advocates of the interest of the administration and therefore I say it as a representative of the majority: although we have broadcast this administration, our calling is to protect from its arbitrary interest of the Bulgarian citizens. One of their most important interests is the right to property, one of the most important common interests is legal certainty. With these delays just once and for all, it must be stopped and the administration must understand that in the face of the Bulgarian Parliament there is no defender for its own laziness and idleness. My vote will be against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mrs. Yanakieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Kanev, with all due respect to what you have said and your arguments against the extension of the deadline, I would like to ask you yourself, as a lawyer, to return to the legislation that this Parliament has created in the period from 1997 to this time, to see how many laws are returning to the procedure which does not allow all these acts of state and municipal property to be made. Any reference can be made, in this purely look and the Law on Agricultural Land to understand that very soon there were given the opportunities to draw up such acts and, of course, a number of other examples that can be seen. After all, we are not talking about how the administration is doing its job well or badly. It's every supervisor's right to judge and sanction. More importantly, we defend the interests of the state and the municipalities, which are unconditionally public and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Yanakieva. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kanev, I accept, but in principle - your motives and considerations. I would like to say the following: this concerns property belonging to municipalities and the state. Incorrectly in the debates, the focus was on the activities of the regional governors. Here we must join the activities of 264 municipalities. It's not just about the actuarial process. Acting is a procedure that creates a certification document but does not create the right to property. The state and municipal properties have been repeatedly implemented and are currently also under way from the adoption of cadastral maps in almost the entire territory of the Republic. There's no state or municipal property that doesn't change its boundaries, that doesn't change its description. You, as a lawyer and as a mastermind, know how many years it takes to solve a property dispute, and this is usually not three years. Often, the horizon of such disputes passes ten years. Remember how controversial the legal regime of restitution was. There's still a lot of unsolved restitution cases. We cannot leave unprotected state and municipal property, which I will allow here to divert the accusations to the administration is not lazy of the administration. Here, too, the legislator has contributed to controversial legislation for about 20 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u12	My fellow Members, I have therefore said that the issue is complicated and that there is more than one point of view, but complex issues are not solved with delay. The fact is, by the way, after Emperor Justinian has taken Italy back from the Eastern Goths, the process of restitution has lasted 40 years and Bulgaria is going towards something similar. This creates huge legal problems, huge legal uncertainty. However, the question I am putting in this situation - are we Bulgarian citizens equal to the administration? Because, while the moratorium on the acquisition of state and municipal property is extended and extended, a moratorium for the state and municipalities to acquire by limitation private property in Bulgaria is not, and the private owner is facing much bigger problems when he has to protect his right to property, because he cannot rely on this administration, including for the definition of borders, including for determining the history of the property. While we postpone and defend the state and municipalities for 10 years and deprive thousands of Bulgarian citizens of the right to protect their property under a legal order, at the same time many more thousands of Bulgarian citizens have lost their property and in their court is opposed to the fact that the state or the municipality, or their successors have acquired them by statute of limitations. So this is about equality before the law as a major problem. If we are to agree to prolong this moratorium, let us impose a moratorium on the contrary or to adopt legislation that the state does not have the right to acquire the property of Bulgarian citizens by limitation. Last, since my profession matters in this case, to stress that absolutely no particular case binds me to a decision on one or the other of this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u14	Honourable Members, Mr. President, the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria is going to support the submitted bill because it is indisputable for us that the state and municipal public interest must be protected. It's not really bad from this tribune, discussing this bill, reminding the facts. The laws on municipal and state property were adopted in the distant 1996. They gave a 10-year extension of the suspension of the limitation period until 2006, then began an annual practical extension of this limitation period, and after two more years will mark the round 20-year anniversary of the adoption of the laws and the expiry of the limitation period. In this regard, I will state on behalf of our parliamentary group that we will discuss between first and second readings the period by which the statute of limitations should be extended. We are really ready to mark the 20th anniversary with the extension of this deadline until 2016. It is not normal for us to conclude the transition in relative terms within 25 years, but for 20 years to take the state and municipal administrations to complete the process of establishing the ownership of state and municipal properties. The reasons in this bill are several reasons, with two reasons being put first of all a lack of funds and a lack of administrative capacity. So our parliamentary group is also attacking the actions of the administration and we are really pushing for a clear responsibility and for providing sufficient financial resources to ultimately protect the public interests of both the state and the municipalities. This should not be at the expense of private real estate owners. Here, given the requests of the new majority and of the government of the quadruple coalition that there is a serious administrative reform ahead, it should be secured in the budget with sufficient funds and, if not in this calendar year, in which the procedure under this budget seems to be over for the majority, sufficient funds should be provided in the following year to enable this property establishment process to be completed in the 20 years since the adoption of the two basic laws. In other words, if the ruling majority is genuinely willing to undertake a serious administrative reform, it should also be expressed in terms of providing sufficient capacity for the administrative and financial means to complete this process. It is not normal for the restitution process to end in a few years when the interest of private owners clearly stimulates them to obtain the necessary documents, to carry out the necessary actions to protect their personal interests, and for the state and Bulgarian municipalities within 20 years to fail to deal with the process of the initial act of the property. I do not believe that Parliament should stimulate, including administrative carelessness, and therefore, between first and second readings, let us discuss and refine another extension of the limitation period. But otherwise, the interest of the state and the municipalities should be above all else and the inaction of the administration should not be encouraged by legislative decisions, but should be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for lines. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u16	I'm sorry, there won't be any dialogue. I won't be involved anymore, but I was really provoked by something that I consider important. No, colleague Manolova, the interest of the state and municipalities is not above everything. The state and municipalities are simple tools for a better life for individuals. The life of the individual citizen, his rights and interests are much higher than the interest of the state and municipalities. The right to property is extremely important and mainly within the type of society in which we have chosen to live. That's why he's so pathosed in this seemingly small matter. Colleagues, it's not the state's interest above all else, it's the man's interest above all else. [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u18	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am pleased to hear that Mr. Radan Kanev shares a motto which was also in place 30 years ago............................................................................................................................................................. We have shared and also share this principle, but in any case, the good of man should not be at the expense of public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Next statement by MP Mitev. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Group of the Patriotic Front will vote in conscience for this bill. Indeed, there are a number of reasons that can be expressed for..... and against.............................................................................................................. I agree with what Mr. Kanev said that this moratorium went on too long. It is true that there should be no primate of state and municipal property over private when we establish rules. It is also true that we still have objective reasons for not being able to act on properties that are state and municipal property, such as those not introduced everywhere and unprepared cadastral maps and cadastral registers, mainly for financial reasons. It is true that we have municipalities where there is really insufficient administrative capacity to carry out the actuarial procedure. It is true that these procedures also take a long time for the relevant properties to be listed as state, respectively municipal property. We are also ready to discuss a reduction in this 3-year period between first and second readings and we will make relevant proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, on the basis of art. 143 of the Rules also declare a lack of any private interest. I am delighted that other colleagues before me have done so that we can, in principle, express our opinions, without any doubt of any personal commitment or any personal motive to push us to express one position or another. Dear colleagues, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will also support this bill under condition. Enough has already been said about how long the postponement of the end of the moratorium on the acquisition of State and municipal property by private persons has continued, how many times this deadline has been extended by the agreement to last. I think it should eventually come to the end of this extension one day, because this cannot go on indefinitely. On the other hand, I disagree with those on the right that, you see, it was in the administration's best interest. No, honourable Members, this is not the interest of the administration, this is the state, the municipal, to call it the general public interest, which should lead us first and foremost and which is the basis of this bill as well. I also disagree that private interest can be placed above public interest, above public interest. The colleague who spoke this thesis clearly confuses human rights with human interests. There is a huge difference, and while in one case the primate is categorical and insomnia, in the second case it is not at all so. It cannot be placed at a higher level the private, personal interest of an individual over the public interest and it is not a coincidence that even in many international regulations, whenever certain rights specifically related to property are guaranteed, there has always been an agreement for the public interest. It is no coincidence that the state's right to expropriate is introduced, i.e. to alienate property to satisfy the public interest. Thus, no doubt, the legal thought has placed a primate of public interest above private. So, in all cases, public interest must be guaranteed. However, this cannot go on forever. Between first and second readings, we will also insist that the deadline be reconsidered first. Secondly, we will urge the government to sign a clear timetable and a concrete action plan with concrete measures what the state administration will take to really last this term; what action will the government, regional governments take in order to achieve once and for all the end of this moratorium and not have to extend this moratorium again after three or two years. Now, in the clear recognition of the Council of Ministers that the state is currently not ready, it is not sure that it has fully defended the public interest, we have no choice but to extend this moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Kazak, honourable Members, my remark is that I cannot accept one or another interest or right to be favored for the account of another interest or right. In other words, I do not accept what Mr. Kazak said that public interest should almost be protected at the expense of private property rights, which is also guaranteed by the Constitution. What I could agree with is that they are equal and that we think about how one doesn't hurt the other. Here my reproach is also on Mr. Kazak and on the ruling majority until yesterday, to which he counted, as he himself said, that many times this moratorium has been extended for the last time and so nearly 20 years. So it just can't be done, and really once and for all it has to become clear that if there is an extension, it will be the last time, and this time it will really be the last time. The administration should get it together, do its job and really not jeopardize public interest. We know very well that there is a distinction between state and municipal property of public or private, i.e. the law creates sufficient guarantees to protect it. Here the question is that the relevant administrations have done their job of acting on these properties and it is clear whether they are private municipal property, public municipal property and so on. This hasn't happened for many years. It's obviously time for that to happen. And to the Commission, I have stated that between the two readings we will bring a reduction in this period, that is, not to extend it again by three years, and indeed this time the agreement will be that it is the last. If you go back in time, you will see that if the period was initially extended once each year, then I do not know whether for the convenience of the administration or the legislator, but you extended it for three years. It really doesn't look like it's over, if this time again for three years, it's supposed to be the last time we do it this way. I think that we really need to give a very clear signal to the public, to the public, that this is the last time that a compromise is made, and the administration has to do its job to resolve this issue once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kazak, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable colleague Slavov, I am not significantly different from the thesis you have expressed. I think you've repeated quite a bit what I've said. This must be the last time. This time we must really move, force the administration to take all the necessary steps and steps to ensure the protection of public interest within this last extended period of the moratorium. Otherwise, I remind you of the explicit division I made between law and interest. The right to property is yes, but the private interest, the personal interest of the individual who illegally borrows a property public state or municipal property cannot be an argument for damaging the public interest, the public interest. Until this interest is protected and we are not sure that it is protected, I think we should allow the state and municipalities to protect it within this last deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other speeches? Stefan Kenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Centre will support the extension of the moratorium. I want to take account of the attacks on the administration. There are colleagues from you who have worked in regional administrations, there are former district managers. I have been deputy district manager of one of the largest districts of Burgas, with the most files, along with Plovdiv region. Departments of State Property in the last four or five governments have always been hit by administration optimization and cuts. There is no way you can expect from the Department of State Property to perform, deactivate, complete files, provided that we always hit this administration at the time of the government of Saxe-Coburg, during the three coalitions when I was deputy district. Subsequently, we always optimize the administration without realizing the amount of work to be done in this particular area. Most archives in district administrations are already almost crumbling documents. There is a need for investment in preserving and electronic means of these documents, but there is also a need for human personnel potential. So it is necessary not only to extend the moratorium, but to conduct a targeted policy to preserve the archives. Many of you know that at the moment there are almost no State-owned acts issued in the forest areas. A very large part of the land fund has not been implemented, the properties in the settlements have not been deactivated for the benefit of the municipalities. I believe that we must extend the moratorium and take action to ensure that the administration does its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Danail Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor mainly to make a few warnings about the subject we are discussing. Colleagues have expressed impartiality, and I will express perhaps an emotional bias. Since I have been a municipal councillor for six years, for almost four years I have been a district manager of Sofia, yes, I feel addicted to the protection of state and municipal interest in terms of the real estate of the state and municipalities. Colleagues, we fully support colleague Kenov, who briefly described the situation purely administratively with the difficulties in the daily work of one administration or another and I would say that here the causes and problems are complex. We can hardly say the state and the municipality is lazy, one-sided. I would also like to state my addiction to the Constitution. Dear colleagues, do not think that in any way in my thoughts I am ignoring the equal treatment of private property with institutional property. I'm asking you to think about it, because state and municipal property is really the property of each and every one of us. Yes, it is not ideally owned, it is managed in a certain order, but it is the property with which central and local administrations carry out one or other objectives I ask you to think about why so difficult and so controversial has become the extension of the moratorium of the seventeenth year. What's the difference between the sixteenth or the fifteenth? What had to break through the caselaw and divide in two directions with regard to the moratorium and with regard to the limitation period, to read in some judicial decisions reasoning which artificially tried to justify how on 31 May 2006 the moratorium had actually dropped out and there was one day interruption; to read court decisions that said that this moratorium acted differently on the properties public state or municipal and otherwise in relation to the properties private state or private municipal property? Colleagues, this moratorium works equally. Here colleagues rightly noted that if it comes to the protection of public state or municipal property, it is protected initially sui generis, in view of the nature of this property and in view of the absolute prohibition to acquire. So I cannot accept as justified arguments, even of supreme judges, in the direction that this moratorium made sense only in terms of public government ownership. It is undisputed that all these are immediate indicators of public tensions, conflict and coliseum of interest. Nevertheless, I ask you to support the proposed bill of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Philip Popov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm tempted to really take into account the new scientific theory of ideal ownership, but I'm not going to. 1996. We are now on the threshold of 2015, the period for suspension of the limitation period is extended. Nearly 19 years will do the extension of this deadline. During this period, a number of state-owned acts, post-factum on the same property and municipal property acts were issued and went to an endless court of clarification on the ownership of the designated properties. This loses the state, loses municipalities, lose third parties in terms of these properties. Interesting are the motives of the applicant, there were insurmountable objective difficulties. In three years, these insurmountable objective difficulties will hardly become overpowerable. It hasn't happened in nineteen years, and in those three years, I don't see how it's gonna happen. And because everyone is talking about protecting the public interest, colleagues, public interest gets the most protection when we have stability of the legal norm governing this or a certain type of public relations. For 19 years, such stability has not been seen at this legal norm. In three years the public relations will not change, the administrations will not change or, more precisely, the desire in these administrations to do their job to complete their files on acts of state, respectively municipal property and to clarify the status of these properties. The extension of this moratorium will not save money and protect the interests of the state or the municipalities. It is high time they did their job. I mean by the administration of the state and the municipalities to clarify the status of these properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. There is a vote to be taken, please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Property Act, No 402-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2014. Vote 160 MPs: 148 against 8, abstention 4. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In view of the views expressed that Members of the parliamentary groups will submit proposals with regard to the deadline, as well as the fact that the amendment concerns only one date, and that if the legislative authority wishes to rule, this should be done within the calendar year, I request that the time limit for proposals between first and second reading be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u35	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedure proposed by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. Vote 148 MPs: 139 against 5, abstention 4. The proposal to shorten the period between the two votes has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ACCEPTANCE OF PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND RESTRUCTURING OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES FOR A HEAD INSPECTOR IN THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL AND THE PROCEDURAL RULES FOR THE SELECTION OF A HEAD INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to Vice-President Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and of the rules of procedure for the election of Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council At its meeting held on 9 December 2014, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the issue of the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing candidates as Chief Judicial Inspector. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petko Petkov and Mrs. Nadezhda Yordanova, representatives of the Ministry of Justice; Mr. Vladislav Slavov, Chairman of the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges; Mr. Borislav Belzellkov and Mr. Nikolay Gunchev, representatives of the Union of Judges in Bulgaria; Mr. Boyan Magdalenchev, Chairman of the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges; Mr. Venelin Ivanov and Mrs. Heiguchi Bodikian, representatives of the Bulgarian Judge Association and Mr. Evgeni Ivanov, Chairman of the Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria who participated in the discussion. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Dimitar Lazarov, Cetin Kazak, Desislava Atanasova, Petar Slavov, Dimitar Delchev and Daniel Kirilov. During the discussion, all MPs and representatives of the professional organizations agreed that it is necessary to carry out the procedure for the selection of Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council as soon as possible. Representatives of the professional organisations made a call to the Members of the National Assembly to reach political consensus with a view to the need to finalise the procedure for the election of the Chief Inspector. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously proposed to the National Assembly the following draft decisions: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, submission and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 132a, para. 2 in relation to Art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council: 1. Assigning applications and submission of documents to candidates as Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. Proposals for candidates for Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall be made to the Committee on Legal Affairs in writing by Members of the National Assembly or Parliamentary Groups by 30 January 2015 inclusive. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use, higher schools and scientific organisations may propose applications as Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of Parliamentary Groups and Members of the National Assembly. The proposals shall be accompanied by written reasons and shall be accompanied by the following documents: - written consent of the applicant according to the template - detailed CV; - a xerocopy from a diploma for completed higher legal education; - a statement in the form of an... Annex 2 to the decision that the fact of art........................................................................................................................................................................... 18, para. 1, t. 10 of the Law on the Judiciary; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship; - evidence of criminality; - A certificate from the National Investigation Service. The proposed candidates must meet the requirements of art. 42, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. Each candidate shall submit to the Committee on Legal Affairs: - concept of his work as Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council on paper and electronic media; - a statement of his property status and the origin of the funds for the acquisition of his property according to a model approved by the Minister of Justice. 2. Public disclosure of documents. The proposals, together with the documents under point 1. 1 shall be published on the special section on the website of the National Assembly. The name and the reasons of the MP who proposed the application shall be published. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use, higher schools and scientific organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Legal Affairs on the applicant, including issues to ask him. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Bulgaria. Prince Alexander I No 1, Committee on Legal Affairs, or by e-mail: kpv1@parliament.bg. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. The opinions and questions shall be published on the special section on the website of the National Assembly and on the website of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published, as well as the facts of the intimate life of persons. 3. Check for admission of applicants to a hearing. The Committee on Legal Affairs at a separate hearing prior to the hearing shall verify whether the proposed candidates comply with the requirements for the appointment of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and the documents submitted by them. If the Committee on Legal Affairs finds that a candidate has not submitted all the necessary documents, it shall inform him that it may submit them within 5 days of the notification. Candidates shall not be allowed to be heard who: - do not meet the requirements of art. 42, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary; - have not submitted the documents under point (c). 1. Following the verification, the Commission on Legal Affairs shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's personal names and shall be published on the special section on the website of the National Assembly. 4. Hearing of the candidates admitted as Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall only hear the applicants admitted on their order on the list. The proposer shall present the candidate at an exhibition within 2 minutes. The applicant is given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of work as Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council in an exhibition within 15 minutes for each candidate. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the applicant, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities, universities and scientific organisations. The time for questioning is up to 3 minutes. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after asking a question to him. The answer time for each question is up to 3 minutes. The meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs is public and is broadcast in real time on the Internet through the special section on the website of the National Assembly. 5. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall draw up a detailed report on the hearing of candidates as Chief Inspector, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their personal names. The decision was adopted by the 43rd National Assembly. Annex 1 to the Decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council is a declaration by candidates. Annex 2 to the Decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council also a statement from applicants. Presenting: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules for the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the following Rules of Procedure for the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council: 1. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal on their order, as defined in a list prepared in alphabetical order for the personal names of applicants within 2 minutes. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report to the hearing held. 3. Following the presentation of the report, the National Assembly shall hold the debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 4. At the end of the deliberations, candidates for Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council may make statements and answer questions asked to them within 10 minutes. 5. The vote shall take place on the order set out in the list of candidates. 6. The candidate has been elected, who has received the most votes, subject to a majority requirement for the production of this choice, as defined in art. 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decision was adopted by the 43rd National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u39	I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u40	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are on the verge of launching another procedure for the election of Chief Judicial Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. The saga that's been dragging on for over two years...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u41	Three years now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u42	... went through so many episodes, peripets, applications that were raised, which were unraveled in the media, spitting, defamed and so on, after which candidates gave up, others reached a stage hearing by the committee, after which the procedure was terminated and so on. Really regrettable is the story of the election of the Chief Judicial Inspector in Bulgaria and it was no coincidence that yesterday at our meeting with the representatives of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, all representatives of the political forces were blushing and we did not know how to explain to our European partners why Bulgaria could not broadcast a legitimate holder for this so important post in the judiciary for more than two years. Unfortunately, this post, because of constitutional status and the requirements for a two-thirds majority for the election of a chief judicial inspector, was initially doomed to full dependence and subjugation for political consent, political consensus. We want the effort to elect such a Chief Judicial Inspector to succeed. However, it turned out to be a mission impossible with political contradictions, political confrontation, the desire at all costs to aggravate the political opponent he is currently ruling. The use of this issue in the political struggle and struggle has sacrificed all the previous candidates for this post. As we all have just promised ourselves that the prolongation of the moratorium will be the last time, I hope that this time will be really the last time we will launch this procedure and it will be successful. It is indeed unacceptable for the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council to have such high expectations, both on the part of the judiciary and on the part of the public and on the part of our European partners, to finally obtain a holder, to finally restore his full and lawful activities, so that he can carry out the functions entrusted to him by the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary. Let's put the political fight behind us this time. Let us, this time, rise above political bias, over political opposition and not reach for the temptation called street pressure and public, using certain public pressure organizations, to denigrate this or that candidate and to create such prerequisites for them to dare to apply worthy Bulgarian representatives of the legal system and to choose the best of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u43	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u44	Because in itself, these procedural rules do not differ in any way from the rules we have adopted in the previous Parliament. Even with the latest amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, the opportunity to reveal the whole essence of the candidates, their professional training, their moral and moral qualities, their suitability to perform this post were guaranteed. But, as I said, unfortunately, there were other arguments at the time. May reason prevail this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u46	Dear Mr. Glauchev, I implore you, in your capacity as chairman of this meeting, not to allow idle talk and blabbering of stupidity for 5 minutes with the sole purpose of enjoying your own timbre, the gentleman who spoke before me, i.e. with glasses, said nothing essentially on these 7 pages of text, neither on the proposal for a draft decision nor on motivation. So please do not let the entire National Assembly waste its time, not just him, but the representatives of its anti-constitutional group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u47	I fully comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u48	Basically, there wasn't a word.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u49	Everyone has the right to different opinions and speeches. Rather, you should not make qualifications of the kind you did at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u50	I am satisfied with your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u51	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor to focus on the following few things in relation to our third attempt. Firstly, I would like to express the hope that the third attempt will be successful. I hope the door to all applications is as open as possible. The problem with this procedure and these procedures is already the fear of the candidates. They fear that by participating, they will be discredited, they will lose their good name, they will be placed not only under the cover of surveillance, but also on spitting. The procedure will be complicated, but I mean the things that encourage us. First, the candidates in the second procedure, which did not complete, confirmed their desire to participate through the three organizations of the judges and the Association of Prosecutors. At the moment, it is clear that there will be at least two applications. Our hope is to have more than two applications, the race to be tense and you to have the opportunity to make a successful choice. Last night, as Mr Chetin Kazak noted, all parliamentary groups presented our positions to the European Commission's Delegation on Monitoring for Cooperation and Assessment. I would say that there was no parliamentary group that, through its representative, expressed initial denial, negativity, would be against this procedure. All this should lead to the possibility of achieving one support under the severe constitutional requirement of two thirds of the majority in the election. Here I will say that purely legally technical, with the whole long description of the procedure, we are worried that it is significantly limited by the provision in the Law on the Judiciary. However, I think that we have extended to the maximum extent the possibility for all organisations to submit applications to the MPs and to the parliamentary groups, including candidates to submit themselves as candidates for participation in these procedures. It is important to note the following: the so-called Specialized Hearing Committee collects the data and the facts, i.e. an impression is formed in the participants, but it does not appreciate. Appreciates each of the 240 MPs. The hearing committee will only be an instrument insofar as it establishes and prepare the factology of the professional qualities and opportunities of the candidates. From now on, however, each of us, in our own conviction and in accordance with the decisions of our parliamentary group, should take a stand which candidate should be supported. The particular thing about this procedure, unlike the previous one, is that we have sought to arrange the deadlines so that there is sufficient time to prepare and offer applications. We believe that this will improve publicity and transparency and help the race. The decision that we are about to make now is extremely important. "It is extremely important for the European accreditation of this Parliament, and it is also important for the future of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u53	Testimonial or accreditation?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u54	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u55	I'll explain, Mr. Stoilov, but if you'd rather take the words or concepts...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u56	Mr. Kirilov, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u57	I'm being provoked, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u58	I made a remark to the provocators. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u59	Colleagues, I appeal for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. First, I shall put to the vote a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing candidates for Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, as presented by the report of the Legal Committee by its Vice-President Desislava Atanasova, together with the declaration annexed to the report, with its content, and Annex No 2 with its content. Please vote. 135 MPs voted: 130, none, abstention 5. The decision has been adopted together with the declarations, Annexes 1 and 2 thereto. I put to the vote a draft decision adopting the rules of procedure for the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, which was presented to you in the report of the Commission on Legal Affairs by its Vice-President Dessislava Atanasova. Please vote. Vote 134 MPs: 129, none, abstention 5. And that decision has been passed. With this, we have exhausted the contents of this item from the agenda. The last item on the agenda is: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. (SWD) (SWD) (SWD) (SWD) (SWD)). Importer is the Council of Ministers. You are welcome for the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u61	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project Council Regulation (EU) No 402/02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2014. At its meeting held on 9 December 2014, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 402 02 6, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Ms. Gergana Beremska, Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate and Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova, State Expert at the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate. The bill was presented by Mrs. Gergana Beremska. The financial contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank was signed on 27 November 2014 on the basis of art. 74 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. This second structural programme loan, which amounts to up to 500 million. EUR, will support the national funding of Operational Programmes "Transport and Transport Infrastructure", "Environment" and "Regions in Growth". Furthermore, the agreement also provides for the possibility of using the loan funds for the other operational programmes at the request of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. The duration of the loan is 25 years with 7 years grace period. During the discussion took part the MPs Filip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Danail Kirilov. Mr. Popov raised a question about how to prioritize projects that will be financed. Ms. Beremska replied that all projects are subject to funding, but the more significant for the Bulgarian government will be elected with the approval of the European Investment Bank. To Mr. Georgiev's question about charging the interest and the term of the contract, Mrs. Beremska clarified that the interest was paid from the moment of the absorption of the funds and it was determined for each tranche by providing an opportunity to renegotiate the interest rates of the instalments. As regards the deadline, it indicated that the deadline was long and this was considered a favourable condition. The Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the European Investment Bank (Project "Bulgaria") proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project "Bulgaria") under the EU Funds 2014-2020. (SFF), No 402-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The report of the leading Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to her President Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project Council Regulation (EU) No 402/02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2014. At a meeting held on 4 December 2014, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister, Gergana Beremska, Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate and Rositsa Dimitrova, expert in the same Directorate. The bill was presented by Ms. Karaivanova. This is the second structural programme loan that the European Investment Bank provides to support the government of Bulgaria in the absorption of EU funds for the period 2014 - 2020 and amounts to up to 500 million. Euros. The loan will support national funding mainly under Operational Programmes "Transport and Transport Policy", "Environment" and "Regions in Growth" because these programmes will finance extremely strategic infrastructure projects of national importance which are also priority for the activities of the European Investment Bank. Nevertheless, the Agreement provides for the possibility of using the loan and other operational programmes at the request of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria after analysis and approval by the European Investment Bank. The duration of the loan is 25 years with 7 years grace period, providing for the possibility of one-off, medium-term and long-term repayment of individual instalments from the central budget. The funds will be used up to 20 instalments, with the minimum amount of each tranche being 25 million. EUR and the maximum amount of the first tranche may not exceed 30 per cent of the value of the loan. The selection, preparation, procurement, implementation and monitoring of the project group and measures shall be defined within the framework of the relevant Bulgarian regulations, the Council directives and regulations applicable to the European Funds covering the 2014-2020 programming period. After the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:............................... 16 MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project (SFF) No 402-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. With the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mrs. Hubenova will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u65	STATEMENT of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project At the meeting held on 10 December 2014, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Mrs. Gergana Beremska, Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate at the Ministry of Finance and Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova, Director of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance took part in the Commission meeting. I. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Financial Treaty signed on 27 November 2014. II. The proposed Financial Treaty aims to provide resources for the financing of the projects from the new programming period 2014 - 2020 and the grants from the Structural and Investment Funds of the European Union to be within up to 80-85% and national co-financing to include own funds and instalments from the European Investment Bank loan. According to the contract, the amount of credit is EUR 500 million and the deadline for the use of funds is 31 December 2023. This is the second structural programme loan that the EIB provides to the Republic of Bulgaria in order to support the absorption of funds from the European Union funds. III. The current loan is intended to support the national funding mainly of Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" and Operational Programme "Environment" and Operational Programme "Regions in growth" as they include strategic infrastructure projects of national importance, which are also priority for the activities of the European Investment Bank. The possibility of using funds from the loan is also envisaged for the other operational programmes at the request of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, after analysis and approval by the European Investment Bank. The selection, preparation, procurement, implementation and monitoring of the projects will be determined within the framework of the relevant Bulgarian regulations, the Council directives and regulations applicable to European funds during the 2014-2020 programming period. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed unanimously with 13 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please vote at first reading Draft Law on ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for Pre-accession They voted 119 MPs: 117 against 2, no abstentions. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[National Representative Radan Kanev wants the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group.]] On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u67	Procedure! First the word for procedure is given!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 28 November, the Reform Bloc Parliamentary Group drew attention to the worrying conclusions in the report of the software inspection of the so-called accidental distribution of cases in the judiciary and specific cases concerning the Sofia City Court. The government, in the face of the prime minister and the justice minister, responded to this public challenge. However, the parliamentary groups in this Parliament remained silent and did not support the executive power. During the past two weeks, the crisis in Bulgarian justice has sharply escalated. The Ambassador of one of the main forces in the European Union sharply and publicly raised the issue of the existence of organized criminal groups in Bulgarian justice and the effect of this problem on foreign investment in Bulgaria. Thus, the European business in Bulgaria received protection from one of its ambassadors. But did the Bulgarian business receive protection from their ambassadors?! Do they have ambassadors of their own? Has their voice been heard against lawlessness and arbitrariness? Our answer is no! The ambassadors of Bulgarian citizens in the Bulgarian Parliament remained silent and the result was not delayed. In the coming days an employee of Bulgarian justice was beaten with pipes. A candidate for chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation was hit by a car in an unexplained incident in which the driver escaped and immediately withdrew his candidacy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the handwriting of the Bulgarian mafia. If two weeks ago we said that the data on what was happening to the random distribution is evidence of a mafia, today we have violence with the Mafia's handwriting! Yesterday, colleagues, 15 judges from the largest, busiest and most unconditionally responsible for the characteristics of their tasks Bulgarian Court of Justice, in an unprecedented letter for the Bulgarian history, asked the Supreme Judicial Council for the removal of their direct directors with the clear awareness that the Supreme Judicial Council who appointed them will not receive this suspension. Just to ring the bell! They named names in the public domain, most often related to the problem of accidental distribution in cases of high public interest. In their letter, the judges directly state the existence of vicious practices and processes, I quote: they have become called names for the Bulgarian judiciary. And they add the following: "In order to oppose them effectively, it is evident that our lack of participation in such ones is not enough. I repeat on our behalf what the judges say to oppose effectively, our non-participation is not enough, our responsibility is different! Members of Parliament, successful changes in rotten justice systems always begin when inside the system, in its honourable representatives, who are always a majority, there is enough anger and energy when they raise their voice, Bulgaria has reached this point. It is imperative that we take sides today. Not to undermine the independence of the court and the prosecution, on the contrary, to strongly defend their independence from the mafia and economic interests and thus to stand the public interest without making unnecessary compromises and without trying to please everyone. The limit of compromise on this subject has long been passed. The failure to manage the judiciary is obvious. The Supreme Judicial Council, to put it mildly, has shown complete chastity in managing the processes in the system and overcoming its disabilities. After the failure of the Supreme Judicial Council in the judicial system, there is no power. In powerlessness, refined methods of imposing illegal private interests have already given in to bats. The failure was known from the moment of the election of this Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council. And it is largely our responsibility to the National Assembly. Even though the then Blue Coalition voted against the Coalition, then the non-parliamentary movement of the citizens protested strongly. We do not take the responsibility away from ourselves. We are all MPs and we represent the will of the Bulgarian Parliament. Today it is time to distinguish ourselves from what from DBG, outside parliament then, called the political cartel. It was then attended by representatives of the first three largest groups in both the then and today's parliamentary groups. Several times we have heard from DPS's colleagues about the fourth largest group in parliament. It is true that our group is not large, but it has already assumed its responsibility. It's time for all three of them to take theirs. We must be at the level of the crisis and of the courage already shown by the representatives of the judiciary. The National Assembly should come with strong support for their calls. We call on all the parliamentary groups in the forty-third Parliament to perform their moral gesture and to request the resignation of the Supreme Judicial Council, especially the representatives of the parliamentary quota in it, for whose election and failure we are responsible! If this call is not heard, let us take appropriate action with immediate legal consequences. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. For the procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is based on art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because at the first reading of the Bill for ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank there were no speeches and proposals, I ask that the bill be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u71	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposed procedure by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova for watching the second reading of the bill. Vote 116 MPs: 108, against 4, abstention 4. Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal is accepted. Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u72	I will introduce you to the draft law that we offer to your attention: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project (SPD) (SPD) A single member. Ratifying the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank (Project This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-11.u73	Statements? I won't. Please vote on your proposed draft law. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The bill for ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank was adopted in a second vote, which became a law. Thank you. We've run out of agendas with this. Tomorrow, we continue with the first item that we voted on today, and then at 11:00 p.m. with Parliamentary control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
