ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] We start with the first point of our work programme: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2015 It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, adopted in the first vote on 9 December 2014. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Commission Mrs. Diana Yordanova. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, procedure. I request permission in the hall of Dincho Genev "Deputy Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund," and Mrs. Ganka Avramova "Director of the Directorate of Budget and Financial Parameters" in the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u3	Please vote on the procedure for admission of those persons to the Chamber. They voted 147 MPs: for 147, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the faces to the hall. Mrs. Yordanova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u4	On 9 December 2014, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Second Voting of the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015, No 402-01-9, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, adopted at the first vote on 9 December 2014. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u5	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You can also take my statement into account as procedural. I waited because I expected the Minister of Health to be somewhere on the sidelines, and he's about to enter the Chamber. If he's here, ask him to come in, because we're starting to discuss a law that is crucial for the development of the health sector next year. I guess he's got something to tell us. Announce that the reform of the health system has begun and we have something to say to him in the texts of the Casa. I suggest, in case he is not in Parliament, that he be invited, but in case he is here, that you invite him to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u7	You're right, Mrs. Manolova, he'll be invited. I don't suppose it's relevant to the title of the bill, and that's why it's gone. - What's the line? Actually, it's a procedure, so it won't. Are there any other statements on the name of the bill? I won't. Please vote. They voted 147 MPs: 143, none, abstention 4. The proposal for the name of the bill has been adopted. Mrs. Yordanova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u8	Article 1 "Proposition of the National Representative Emil Raynov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following changes are made: Row 1.1.3.3. The number 120,000 changes and becomes 140,000. Row 1.1.3.4. The number 70,000 changes and becomes 90,000. Row 1.3.8. The number 1 282 916 is changed and becomes 1 242 916. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Aliosman Imamov, Petar Chobanov, Hassan Ademov u Dzhevdet Chakarov: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 number..3 075 534 thousand. The amount of the aid is estimated to be EUR 10 million. lv. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is 1, item I. the number..3 075 534 thousand. The amount of the aid is estimated to be EUR 10 million. lv. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1, item I. t. 2 the number.18,000 thousand. The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 10 million. lv. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the number s. 3 075 534 thousand. The amount of the aid is estimated to be EUR 10 million. lv. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. the number s 3 075 534 thousand. The amount of the aid is estimated to be EUR 10 million. lv. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. c. 1 the number. "3 072 175 thousand. BGN is changed to 3 152 175 thousand. lv. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. c. 1.1 the number..2 763 277 thousand. The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 10 million. lv. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. 1.1.3 the number The amount of aid is estimated at EUR 775 080 thousand. lv. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. 1.1.3.1 the number The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 186 000. lv. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. 1.1.3.2 the number..190.000 thousand. £198,000 is changed to £198,000. lv. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. 1.1.3.3 the number £176,000 is changed to £176,000. lv. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, item II. 1.1.3.4. The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 1 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Stoyan Tonev, Daniela Daritkova, Lachezar Ivanov, Sultanka Petrova and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) Adopts the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) for 2015 by revenue and transfers "all in total 3 075 534 thousand. BGN, as follows: It shall adopt the budget of the NHIF for 2015 on expenditures and transfers at a total amount of 3 075 534 thousand. BGN, as follows: It shall adopt the NHIF budget for 2015 with a balanced budget balance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u9	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our formal proposal relates to an amount of 80 million. BGN, which somewhere between the meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund and the meeting of the Council of Ministers disappears from this point. 2 "Transfer from the central budget to cover the lack of funds, namely the initial proposal was 98 million, and then in the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister of Health this amount is already 18 million. We propose that this amount be recovered in this order and in our proposal we use in particular those who express the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union. This amount also binds us to their desires and suggestions. If nothing else, they are selfless, namely they concern these very spheres. We propose that this amount should be distributed by feathers, as the Bulgarian Medical Union requires between 5 and 10% priority for primary outpatient care, namely 8 million for primary outpatient medical care, 8 million for specialized, 8 million for medical diagnostic activity. In addition, given the very serious statement of the Bulgarian Dental Union to include one more activity for elderly people in the dental service of the Bulgarian population, we offer 56 million dollars precisely this amount, which they have calculated, to add to those 120 and to make it a total of 176 million. The proposal of the Bulgarian dental union is very solid because at the dawn of the situation of the National Health Insurance Fund the share of dental aid was 9%. Over time, this amount is about 100 million, as it remains constant as an absolute amount, this share by 2015 in the budget estimates that is available is only 4.45%. These are our proposals. I think they're appropriate, and I suggest you accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u11	Thank you, dear Dr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Emil Raynov. Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my proposal is similar to what colleagues have done, and it is briefly 40 million to be taken from hospital care, 20 million to transfer to medical diagnostic activity and 20 million to dental care. Why am I making this offer? I think we've been listening to a lot of presentations lately, saying about the tragic situation of the indicators of the citizens of the state how increased mortality is, how increased morbidity is. In addition, Minister Moskov two days ago gave a presentation at the Ministry of Health before the Supreme Medical Council, where it was justified how only four diseases made 92% of the death in Bulgaria. Why does it come to this? This situation is the result that these diseases are mostly treatable, but do not catch at first. Why don't they fall for it at first? Because a long time ago, we've surpassed Dr. Quinn's healer's time and doctors, besides earpiece, sense and knowledge, need enough research to run. I think each of you has met the drama of the absence of directions, how they literally end in the first 7 days of the month. I think it is very appropriate for 20 million to be in this area in the medical and diagnostic activities, so that the Bulgarian doctor has reason for more research, for a more timely diagnosis, so that it does not come to what is obtained in practice, because of the lack of directions, people use to enter the hospital where the treatment is more expensive to do these tests. Something very important! We run into people who have to go to Telk every day. Again, due to lack of directions, doctors are forced to hospitalize them so that they can do a minimum of research to go to Telk. I think that this proposal is wise to increase health insurance payments for medical and diagnostic activities from 70 million plus 20 million to 90 million. All this will be in favor of the Bulgarian citizens. And the additional 20 million we offer for dental assistance is precisely in relation to what the Bulgarian dental union has said, all that we all know that at the moment what is proposed for 2015 in the budget - 120 million for dental aid - is actually equal to the 2013 budget. So it is quite reasonable to increase the budget. Last year we increased it by 10 million, this year it should be 20 million. We haven't noticed people having less dental problems, so that's completely resonant. Because the question will arise as to why we are taking them from hospital care after improving the diagnosis of outpatient care, after much of the problems are resolved there, I think the pressure on hospital care will be dropped. And separately Minister Moskov said there will be a huge package of measures that will be precisely to discipline hospital care, so I think it will not affect, even more than 1 billion. 280 million. 40 million less, I think it's negligible. Thank you for your attention. I hope our proposal will be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u13	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Hasan Ademov. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Health Insurance Fund! Colleagues, what we are doing as a proposal cannot be taken into account at all. Do you know why? Because the same proposal in § 9, only out of 190 million, colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group make it. Our proposal is worth 80 million and it supports the policy proposed by the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health states that he wants to divide the medical care of Szna, the one that the NHIF pays the basic medical care for socially significant diseases and the one to be paid by voluntary funds. If you want us to support financially with the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund the Minister's proposal, here are the texts with which we should do it. We propose that the 80 million, which in the original version, were in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Minister of Health, in this letter to the Minister of Finance, took away from the budget of the NHIF, to return to where they belong, a transfer, as it is called, from the central budget to cover the lack of funds. Colleagues, let's support the Minister of Health! [[The Minister of Health Petar Moskov enters the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. [[GERB's line.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u16	How do we support him? You don't support him! You are in favour of GERB's proposal with 190 million to increase the funds for hospital and hospital care by 9 p.m. That's what you supported. And what we do as an offer that's worth 80 million, you don't support it. I can't understand that.! You support expenditure, and in advance, you support an advance cost that is at the expense of the so-called operational reserve, you can spend it from the beginning, such is the text, you can start before you collect that money. You want 170 million. lv. for hospital care; you want 5 million for primary care. lv.; Specialized Aid.. 10 million lv.For medical-diagnostic activities, 5 million things we want. We want to support Mr. Minister's thesis. Don't you want us to support the priorities of child and mother health, socially significant diseases? Outpatient assistance is the one that can commit to prevention, promotion and any problems associated with not getting to expensive hospital care. Our desire with our proposal is to support outpatient assistance in the way you want in your strategy. You do not support the 80 million that we want, and which you requested by this letter from the Finance Minister back from the National Health Insurance Fund budget, here is the letter signed by you. [[shows letter]] , and now you offer us from the operational reserve to be able to spend money in advance, for which we give way to spend as our proposal is made. I cannot understand this thing, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Budget Committee, why have you not accepted our proposal? You accept an advance cost of 190 million, and at the same time you do not accept a regulated cost of 80 million. BGN, which again supports your ones, in support of what the Minister of Health says. I don't understand that logic. Not that we haven't done those things ourselves, but don't repeat our mistakes, ladies and gentlemen! [[Laughter, excitement in GERB. Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u18	Honourable Members, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! With the offer we made under art. 1, we are also trying to support the Minister of Health in his intention to make health reform as a formal one, in accordance with his statement during the first vote on the Cassata budget, we propose that the funds for hospital care be increased. From his oral presentation in plenary, we were under the impression that he understood the reform as an emphasis on medical activities to be carried out in the hospital aid system and a limitation of the activities to be carried out in hospital care. I won't repeat what my colleagues said before me. We support such an action. However, this is disturbing. Although the minister himself has declared this priority, he is not aware of its financial security. It is therefore strange that the proposals that we and other opposition colleagues make do not meet the support of the Health Commission. I personally carefully monitor the actions taken by the health minister regarding the reform of the health system. I will remind you of this tribune of his statement relating to the texts of the Casa budget that the entire package of legislative changes that are being proposed will be uploaded on Friday on the Ministry's website for public discussion. This Friday was on 12 December 2014, but then only one project was uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Health. I'll be back to that law in a minute. Now I will only inform you what is on the ministry website and what the minister imagines as a reform of the health system. There is a decree, uploaded a little later on December 16th, justifying expenditure incurred at the Ministry of Health, which is made traditionally. There is a draft regulation supplementing Regulation No 38, which is also always done at the end of each calendar year. There are other traditional regulations that are important, but they solve current organizational issues regarding the management of healthcare for next year. Here we should ask the Minister where is the package of legislative changes on the reform he promised in plenary 10 days ago. [[M Minister Peter Moskov's reply.]] There's only one document. The Insurance Act. Here's a draft law. According to the parliamentary procedure, I quote, it must be finally adopted at the end of February. My question is this. One of the main things about this bill is the adoption, the creation of an additional package of services that will be paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. So far, we've been talking about a major package, and now there's an extra package of medical services. My question is this additional package, which you think should become a legislative fact in February and is noted in this Law, what financial coverage will there be? Where in the texts of the Health Insurance Act, which we adopt today in Art. 1, is reflected this additional package? Otherwise you have to agree that this is some kind of naked wish, which even if accepted, because it is one of the few major changes you are proposing, but it has no financial justification. If the money will be the same and will divide between the basic and the additional package, then why do you need to do this exercise at all?! I would also like to use my speech and congratulate you, dear Mr. Moskov, on the strategy you have tabled to discuss emergency assistance. This is the Strategy made by Minister Andreeva, already discussed, which she could not implement. [[Noise, laughter, shouts: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] . I declare that this is why we will support you because what the previous minister could not do, obviously you have the will to do it, so you will get our support. However, I think it is correct when one presents concepts and strategies to point to authorship. I give you Mr. Ivanov the Justice Minister, who in no way, by presenting his strategy, was tempted to present it as his own personal case, mentioned the magistrates, and the previous ministers who have also worked on this strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u19	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are in the procedure of voting on the budgets of the Casa, of the NSI and of the state budget. I very much ask you to carefully monitor the fields of thought of the MPs, because many of them are famous for enviable energy! I hope they do not waste plenary time to be educated by the parliamentary platform for the intentions of one or another reform minister. Let us specify and focus on the topics we are discussing today so that we can really do our work effectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u21	I've heard very carefully the remark to me. I hope the MPs will respond, too, because I can't keep track of a flight without participating in it, and I can't. [[General applause from GERB. Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u22	You must be an R.V.D. employee at the very least! [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u23	Are there any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of MP Emil Raynov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 144 MPs: 63, against 66, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Raynov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Because I was explaining to my colleagues once again what my proposal is and I think they didn't understand, so I'm asking for a re-vote. [[GERB lines.]] Moreover, there are enough dentists in this House and I think they could gladly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u25	Just two.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u26	Two, but enough. Thank you. It's a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u27	Those to whom you have explained have understood and, according to you, voted correctly, Mr. Raynov, but still..................................................................................... Here will be the abuse of the rights of the MPs throughout the day and until the end of the budget vote. Pure abuse. Vote 165 MPs: 68 against 86, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Lutvi Mestan and a group which the Commission does not support. We vote. They voted 164 MPs: 53, against 90, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u28	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u29	Were you explaining to the group, Mr. Ademov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u30	I'll explain to your group. [[Radio.]] Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote with a request to support the Minister of Health, not our proposal. My fellow Members, if you do not support this proposal, you are practically blaming the minister elected by your majority because 2015 without funding the reforms it is proposing are doomed in the final. Without funding, that's not gonna happen. That is why I am making this procedural proposal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u31	It's a re-vote. They voted 167 MPs: 64, against 72, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to amend art. 1, according to the report of the same Commission. Vote art. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 173 MPs: 113, against 54, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u33	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote members with numbers 2, 3 and 4 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 116, against 21, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u34	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u35	I put to the vote the Commission's proposal in favour of the importer for the name "Transitional and final provisions." Vote 157 MPs: 142 against 6, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u36	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Borislav Veliev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Reexecution of income from health insurance contributions and non-tax revenues above the amount of the transfer under art. 1, para. Row 1 2 may be used as a source for supplementary health insurance payments above the established costs and transfers made to the NHIF's budget in a line defined by the NHIF Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u37	Read correctly about the text "NHIF" is written because otherwise it will come out in the shorthand with the full name and not with the abbreviation. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version the Commission's report. They voted 161 MPs: 116, against 3, abstention 42. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u38	Paragraph 2 supposed by the MPs Stoyan Tonev, Daniela Daritkova, Lachezar Ivanov, Sultanka Petrova and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) The Ministry of Health shall provide a transfer to the budget of the NHIF under Art. 1 by the end of the month following the reporting, on the basis of a request from the NHIF, to the budget of the NHIF. 1, para. 1 row 4 for the financing of the costs of medicinal products and vaccines and activities related to their application under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act; for activities for health-insured persons including: complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance in patients with skin-venerial and psychiatric diseases; intensive treatment; activities under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act and the amounts under art. 37, para. 6 of the Health Insurance Act. The funds shall be reported under art. 1, para. 2 line 1.2 of the NHIF budget. (2) Transfer under para. 1 shall be the amount of the obligation to medical institutions for their activities taken over during the month by the NHIF, respectively, to holders of wholesale marketing authorisations for medicinal products for the vaccines supplied and administered. (3) Transfer over the size of art. 1, para. 1 Row 4 shall be determined and provided by the Ministry of Health under conditions and by order defined by the Minister of Health and the Governor of the NHIF, without prejudice to the budget balance of the NHIF. (4) In the cases under para. 3 the manager of the NHIF monthly after reporting the payments made during the previous month confirms compensated changes in the indicators under art. 1, para. 1 row 4 and para. 2, Row 1.2, without prejudice to the balance sheet of the NHIF budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u39	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the wording in the version of the Commission for § 2. They voted 161 MPs: 116, against 3, abstention 42. The Commission's proposal for the revision of § 2 has been adopted. Proceed further, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u40	The Commission shall support the text of the importer referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u41	Statements? I won't. Please vote on paragraphs 3 and 4 by importer. Vote 156 MPs: 108, none, abstention 48. The texts of paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be adopted by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u42	Proposal of the National Representative Stoyan Tonev and a group of MPs § 5. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. The reading of the amounts due in accordance with the requirement of art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act from the NHIF's budget to the National Revenue Agency's budget is carried out at the end of each calendar month in the amount of 0,2 percent on the health contributions raised in the previous month. The funds shall be reported as transfers between budget accounts under art. 1, para. 2, Row 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u43	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the wording of § 5 in the version of the Commission. They voted 154 MPs: 111 against 7, abstention 36. The Commission's proposal to amend § 5 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u44	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u45	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. Vote 154 MPs: 110 against 4, abstention 40. The texts of the importer for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u46	Proposal of the National Representative Stoyan Tonev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 9. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9 with the following wording: ..................................................... The Supervisory Board of the NHIF may decide on the advance spending of the funds under art. 1, para. 2, row 1.4 "Reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent costs' for health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care up to 5 million. BGN, for health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care up to 10 million BGN, for health insurance payments for medical and diagnostic activities up to 5 million BGN, and health insurance payments for hospital medical care up to 170 million lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u47	Statements? You have the floor, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Here I see something that is happening for the first time in the history of NHIF. The intended reserve in advance, a priori to be nailed: 5 million for specialized, 10 for health insurance payments and for medical-diagnostic activity, as well as for hospital care. lv. This has never been for one simple reason that no one can predict with such accuracy how much money to go, i.e. where they will kill the Cashier's budget. A nailing of money is at least illogical, at least impractical, and it raises the following question: why didn't this money even sign up on the individual feathers that were at the very beginning, but remain in reserve? Personally, I wouldn't support such a distribution of money. After all, let the supervision of the Cashier, he is competent enough, he will better judge where the money will be pierced in the Cashier's budget and where to direct the money. Here, once again, we see a trend that is... gives very little money for out-of-hospital aid, and the main amount of money.. 170 million. BGN, they're going to hospital. And next year, after March, we're waiting for the minister's famous package, which will be for a more accurate distribution of the hospital care money, which will stop the leaks of the system, so it may not be necessary for that 170 million to go to hospital? Let us let the supervision of the Cashier make his decision and, believe me, he will better distribute the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u49	Thank you, dear Dr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Hasan Ademov. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you just rejected our proposal that 80 million be spent in support of hospital aid. Now with vague arguments, with vague readings you offer some numerical expression of the support of the hospital and hospital care, and this to happen in advance. Honourable Members, you are now proposing that 170 million of the 300 million operating reserve provided for in the budget be spent in advance. You just didn't agree to spend $80 million. I don't understand that logic!? Mr. Minister, why don't you step out of this booth and defend the policy you're predicting? With the budget being proposed now, your policy remains unfunded next year, i.e. 2015 is zero for healthcare reforms because there is no financial resource available. With just an advance spending of the money from the operational reserve, things can't happen, and you know that very well. You have taken 80 million or more precisely 65 million from the National Health Insurance Fund's budget so that you can spend it on policies of the Ministry of Health by leaving the hospital care with the financial resources, which is about as much as it was last year. It is not true that next year you start fresh without any deficit. From now on, you are voting 80 million deficit, and so have the representatives of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u51	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, such a text is adopted for the first time in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which, in addition to allowing an advance spending of the operational reserve but also to distribute it by feathers. This usually happens with a decision of the Supervisory Board itself, after analysis. More important, though, is something else. As this text enters on a proposal from the Health Commission, I would like to hear in plenary whether you support the adoption of this text?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u53	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u54	I will tell you why I am worried that this text will tie your hands to the implementation of your so widely announced reforms in the health system. Because during the adoption of the first reading of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund you said two things. First, that there will be no update of the Cashier's budget in this calendar year, that is, you say: "These are the parameters, at any cost I will not want them to be changed. Secondly, you say that you have prepared a draft legislative changes that you will upload to the site. However, you haven't uploaded them yet, I suppose that will happen, too, but you state the heart of the reform you have proposed and I will quote you so that I won't be accused of betraying your words improperly. You say the following: There is a working group formed with representatives of different organizations. She has a serious ambition that is achievable that in the middle of next year we should go to the opportunity to make an annex to the National Framework Treaty for 2015. Another question is whether you will ever enter into a major contract to make an annex to it, but you intend to change it in the middle of the next calendar year. What's his purpose? The purpose of this whole action is a serious part of pathology, of the groups of diseases that are currently the responsibility of hospitals to be treated there. This costs a serious amount of additional financial resources. Then you explain that there are no reasons for these activities that cost a huge amount of financial resources to be in hospitals. They need to be taken out of the hospital. That is, you intend in the middle of next year to take out activities that require serious financial resources, hospital care and transfer them to hospital care. This is your statement during the discussion of the NHIF's budget at first reading. Well now, in our opinion, you are tying your hands in advance, including limiting the feathers and sizes to which the funds from the operational reserve will be spent. According to this proposal, which everyone sees again, the basic money goes to hospital care and only up to 10 million are provided for specialized outpatient care and medical-diagnostic activities up to 5 million. That is to say, I see a serious contradiction between requests for health reform and the financial justification for this reform. In addition, I am concerned about the additional package that you have stated in the only law that you have published on the site in § 7. You say that besides a basic package of medical activities that will be guaranteed by the Health Insurance Fund, there will be an additional package that will be financed mainly by the Health Insurance Fund. Here I think it is reasonable to clarify in plenary what you mean. What activities will go into this additional package and how will they be financed when the money is the same and additional funding in the Cashier's budget is not foreseen? These are all important questions. We are really following the health reform that you have announced in all the developments in the fields of your thought, and we are trying to follow it, and we expect that when discussing the second vote on the Casa budget, you will also inform us in some more serious details how you see the reform, so that we can also be sure that things are moving and have their financial justification to support you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u55	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the famous maxim that one sees what one knows, in our parliamentary case can be enriched also by seeing and expressing what one wants to instill politically. In addition, a very short political memory was shown here because in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Budget of the Casa last year, § 12 was similar. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] You've been accepted, Mrs. Manolova. Let's not get into this dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u57	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u58	You can engrave on the various sites where it has the Cashier's Budget Act from last year, and read § 12. He gave the opportunity by these means to pay the outstanding money from the previous year. So such a practice of budgeting already exists. However, in our case we want to support a reform that distributes the money and enables to increase the volumes in hospital care and in the part of specialized outpatient care. In this mechanism we have pledged to keep the same financial framework of the budget. I rely on my fellow Members who believe that we have made similar proposals to support us in this intention, because there are resources allocated here so that, indeed, when the package of laws is ready to regulate the reform, we can make sure that some of the activities in hospital care go to the hospital. These are the intentions of this proposal. At the same time, the requirement of the basic law is maintained that this should be done with significant cost deviations, as stated in the Insurance Act: The sole possibility of the Cashier's Supervisory Board deciding on the advance use of funds is preserved. There are some limits that can be revised in the course of the budget implementation. There is no way in the Law on the Budget of the Casa you can see the overall legislative framework of the reform. This did not happen last year when you forced us to adopt with your votes a text in the Budget Act, which promised reform. However, this reform did not happen in any way because the previous year was zero and the legislative activity of the Ministry of Health and some positive change of the sector. We are now proposing a budget that is financially stable, giving parameters that enable the Minister, with subsequent changes in other laws concerning the healthcare system, to reform this sector. I hope for understanding and support from the MPs, because the consensus we all seek always collapses here in this room, and everyone starts chasing either private party or any other interests. This will not lead to anything good for the health system, as we see at the moment that we are wandering around in an enchanted circle of intentions and proposals that must be put to an end. [[Private applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u59	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Daritkova, it is not true that the financial framework is the same. You know perfectly well that compared to the implementation of the 2014 budget, the next 2015 budget is already 80 million less. You know that very well. Here is the Minister of Health's letter to the Minister of Finance. [[shows him]] With which he wants the 80 million or exactly 65 million of the previously requested by the Ministry of Finance. This draft budget was published for public discussion on the website of the Ministry of Finance with this 80 million. We offer nothing but what the Ministry of Finance has offered, and you have corrected. Once you say that the financial framework is stable and steps on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014, and at the next moment this 80 million is not in the budget. Next, you propose from the operational reserve within the framework of the fiscal programme of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund in advance to finance the policy you are talking about. Initially, the fiscal framework for next year a priori is set with 80 million deficits. I cannot agree with that, and I am convinced that you are well aware of this. Everything else you say about reforms, take your time, take your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u61	Second line, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Daritkova, colleagues! Dr. Daritkova, purely pragmatically with § 9 you restrict the activities of the Supervision of the Case. You bet budget allocation parameters. This means that if one lev exceeds any of these parameters tomorrow, and it will happen, believe me, when the operational reserve is distributed, it will come back here, in this room, for another update. That's what we're warning you about. In order for this not to happen, Mr. Minister, to come here because you will come here, you will be blushing and you will explain how much money you need to update the budget again. Why? Because someone didn't anticipate this operational opportunity, this operational freedom of the Cassate's leadership. A little more confidence in the supervision of the Cashier!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u63	Third line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u64	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, I am not so worried that with this text you are tying the hands of the Supervisory Board in advance. I'm worried that you're tying the hands of the health minister. Since it is not clear at the moment how much and what activities will have to be taken out of hospital care in the hospital, he has limited himself to saying that they are such that require huge financial resources. But to bet advance limits on which the operating reserve can be spent, that is really not fair. You're right that such distribution always happens at some point. Usually, Oversight does, or this happens with an update of the Cashier's budget, but this happens at the end of the year in question. Now you want to set the limits in advance where you can spend the money from the operational reserve. Given that the Minister is not aware of exactly what the reform will be about, how it will be necessary to finance some spheres at the expense of others, from everything that has been said so far, we are under the impression that we will need additional money for hospital care. In advance to put a ceiling of 10 million is not correct to him, all the more so that he spits out, as they say, from this tribune and said: "I will not want an update at any price. Well, given that the reform is starting now, that he has only declared it as an intention that it does not have financial parameters, to limit it in advance to some limits, this will, in my opinion, play a bad joke on it. But in the end, since he's not worried about it, maybe we shouldn't be so worried about it. But since the health system is important to everyone, we would support its reform. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The fact that Andreeva is working and not submitting the bills is now in favor of your minister because he is using everything she has done for the Health Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u65	Mrs. Manolova, I gave you a sound signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u66	For this reason, he has our support while submitting its laws, but we are currently worried about this all having its financial justification.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u67	A hole, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I am really amazed at the deep misunderstanding of Dr. Ademov's colleagues on the left that health reform and the healthcare system is not of one minister or of another. It concerns the entire people, the fate and the future of the nation. You don't understand what we've done with this text. We give the opportunity to increase the parameters in individual activities, to spend in advance from the operational reserve. However, this possibility is listed as a decision of the Cashier's Supervisory Board. It includes the intention of activities from hospital care to be carried out in the hospital, which requires the corresponding financial resource, which can only be changed under the Health Insurance Act after mid-year, as was the text in the current legislative decisions. It's our only intention. In no way is it any different than what was in effect last year. But this cashier's budget is far greater than the one you accepted at the beginning of last year. We want financial discipline to be respected, optimized and done more effectively in the healthcare system. I will see how you will vote on the following texts, which concern precisely this optimization and the more effective spending of the resource, as well as the balancing of expenditure within the framework of the adopted budget. I believe that in no way should the current minister be taught from the previous because we have monuments to the previous decisions of the Minister of Health, which are called " kindergarten and maternal health services" with only one sign. Such camouflage actions, which only mimic activity, should in no way be undertaken. We will not admire them. At the same time, I see that the Minister of Health enjoys broad political support outside coalition partners. I think we really have a chance at a successful reform. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u69	Are there any other statements? I won't. Debates closed. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 126 MPs: 94, against 15, abstentioned 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u70	Paragraph 9 - Proposal of the National Representative Borislav Veliev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Stoyan Tonev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... The Health Insurance Act (inc., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1, t. 5 is finally added to the activities of the directors of the RHIF, including the implementation of art. 44 a.m. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) point 4 is repealed; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. investment costs for the needs of the NHIF, without the acquisition of property; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes intended for home treatment in the territory of the country; (b) c. 5a after the word "the works" shall be commaed and added to the hospital medical care. (c) create a t. 6a: 6a. medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy under hospital care; 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71 After the words of the Regional Health Insurance Act, the provisions of Art. 71 shall be added. 44 a.................................................................................. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 2 after the word 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73 are created. 5 and 6: The activities of the performers of medical care in the performance of the contracts under art. 59, para. 1 shall be subject to financial verification by the control bodies of the RHIF and of the Ministry of Health. (6) The financial inspectors shall exercise control over the implementation and reporting of the activities contracted by the NHIF under para. 5 of the performers of medical and/or dental aid regulated in the LDC
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u71	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 9 by importer, which becomes § 10 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 127 MPs: 100 against 8, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u72	Paragraph 10 s of a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group. The Commission does not support the proposal. "Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: ..................................................... The medical establishments which, after 31 December 2014, obtained for the first time an authorisation to operate under art. 48, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, as well as medical establishments in which new activities have been included after 31 December 2014, except those in a procedure for authorising new activities applied for before that date, cannot conclude contracts and additional agreements with the NHIF in 2015 for the relevant activities. Proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova and Philip Popov: In § 10, the words "and the medical establishments in which new activities have been included after 31 December 2014' shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Maya Manolova: In § 10, the words "and the medical establishments in which new activities have been included after 31 December 2014' shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The medical establishments which, after 31 December 2014, obtained for the first time an authorisation to operate under art. 48, para. 1 of the Act on Medical Institutions, as well as medical establishments in which new activities have been included after 31 December 2014 may not enter into contracts or additional agreements with the NHIF in 2015 for the relevant activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u73	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The main pillar in our health system is regional hospitals, and not just anyone, but those with majority participation of the state in them. By voting § 10 as proposed by the Commission and in the main text, you are actually condemning these hospitals to bankruptcy. If they do not enter into contracts with the 2015 Cashier for new activities... [[Arrival in GERB.]] That's funny! Please come to Vidin to see what the situation is. You will hardly laugh. If they do not enter into contracts with the Cashier for 2015, that is what will happen. They are a loyal partner of the Cashier, and they are taken away from the possibility that they are in practice punished to develop and compete with other hospitals. That is why we have made this proposal in the version of § 10. Dear Minister of Health, I hope that you will not really remain in history as the first minister under whose management bankrupt district hospitals with state participation. This is extremely important for the development of whole regions, health care in these regions, hospital care. This will actually happen if these hospitals, which are trying to be competitors, reveal new compartments with new activities in which there are already investments and do not conclude contracts with the Health Insurance Fund, all the equipment in the wards in practice one year will collect dust and these hospitals will lose an awful lot of money. They're already at a loss. Please support this proposal and do not leave the district hospitals in such a state, and not just any one, I repeat, with the majority participation of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u75	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Dr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u76	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I will not politicalize under § 10 which, for me, is one of the main provisions of the Transitional and Final Rules. I will justify our proposal for a small amendment in this paragraph. It is obvious that § 10 aims to avoid draining the Health Insurance Fund. I don't think there's anyone who's against it. In this sense, the inclusion in contractual relations with the Health Fund of newly emerging health institutions in the following year is justified, although there is an easier way to regulate this process with the introduction of the compulsory health card. The Minister has made a commitment that this thing will happen. I hope this happens soon. However, there is another paradox which, for me, is unjust and we should not support it. We all know the level of our health care on a material basis, on new technologies, on the supply of new equipment. I personally know at least two projects that would contribute to a qualitative leap in our health care level and this does not concern only doctors, it mainly affects patients. I will give just one example to understand from people who are not medics: it is prepared and is about to launch a Project for a second transplant center for stem cell transplant. Part of it opens on Monday. Another part, which is now the real transplant, has been submitted to the transplant agency and to the relevant organs for authorisation. Yeah, but the procedure at the transplant agency lasts three months, six months, sometimes more. This center is made of euro money. He's spent about 20 million on it. Euros. It is essential for the patients in Bulgaria because the center that currently exists in Sofia is small and most people go to neighbouring countries and not quite neighbouring countries to undergo this procedure. With what is proposed in the second part of § 10, we deprive ourselves of the possibility that such high-tech new centres and new activities will be introduced next year. I do not know what will be the motivation of large hospitals to act in this direction, I do not know what the procedure for returning this money will be, because they have a time limit to be included, but I propose that those activities which have been requested, for which registration is requested, for which permission to operate, be dropped from the ban part of § 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u77	- What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u78	Thank you, Madam President. It's a very short line. Mr. Kuchukov, I absolutely agree with what you said, and we will support your proposal. However, you have missed the fact that this is not just about this hospital, this department, which you have quoted, this is really about a number of such cases. I will also give you an example of the district hospital in Vidin, where, thanks to the minister who also helps, we are now trying to reveal state invasive cardiology. These are numerous cases involving really many human fates, Bulgarian destinies. In this direction is my line to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u79	Here you go, Dr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I would like to express my support for the proposal, for the idea of Assoc. Kuchukov. I would like you to pay serious attention to: there are strategic activities, whether regional or national strategic, in relation to the disclosure of new activities to hospitals related to radiation therapy, radioisotopal therapy related to oncology related to innovative treatment methods. We can't wait a year. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest to this text to be written: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u81	You're making an offer to supplement the text?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u83	Give it in writing and consider whether it is an editorial amendment or a complete supplement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u84	Thank you. I'll try.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u85	Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues, since two or three speeches have been mentioned about the short memory, I am obliged to speak at the moment. Mr. Minister, I have come to know the reasons of the Law for amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. I see things: First, the contractual start is returned when determining the methodologies for the valuation and payment of medical activities, volumes, prices and so on. Minister, do you remember what time they were removed? I'll remind you what department.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u87	On the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u88	The arbitration committees are being restored.Something very wonderful, something very wonderful. Do you remember what time they were removed? I'll remind you. A legal argument shall be established for joint checks. That joint checks, since the Cashier exists, have always been done.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u89	Mr. Raynov, I'm sorry, but we're at the second reading of the bill, and you're talking about first.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u90	We're at second reading. Don't interrupt me. A gradual increase is envisaged in the amount of the insurance income on which the State will contribute insurance contributions to the persons who are its commitment. I'm surprised to see that they're going to increase by five percent a year. That is, in ten years' time, 50%, or 2016 we will again return the solidarity model of the Casa, where the state will be jointly responsible with the contributions it pays, as well as the citizens who have so far paid. You are predicting something very curious, which surprises me, for a person with a right mindset, an increase in the supervision of the Cashier with two people from the state quota. What's this, Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u91	The debate is on another text, Mr. Raynov. If you don't commit to the paragraph, Mr. Raynov, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u92	Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u93	I'm gonna interrupt because you're talking off the subject, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u94	You're returning a centralized drug negotiation. And who brought them back to the hospitals? Finally, we will support you, even because of the fact that with this bill you have deleted four years of GERB management with four health ministers. Do you understand me, Minister? [[The Minister of Health Petar Moskov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u95	First lines from MPs. I won't. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the need for certain speeches today. So I listened and took notes, undoubtedly from all the reasonable things that were being heard. I will try to be very brief and not mention any name I learned from the other day.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u97	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u98	Out of respect. With the changes that have been voted on here, some of which I sincerely hope will be voted out to the end, and with the adoption of the Casa budget, really different things are happening. For the first time, for the first time, for the first time, and then suddenly it was said: "But this is not the first time. " - We need to be aware that there are really things that are happening for the first time and are a matter of philosophy. The fact that practically all parliamentary groups have said that they support the minister's policy, for which I thank you, means that literally the whole Parliament supports majority policy in this area because there is no different policy. The Minister's policy is a product of majority policy. The Minister implements majority policy in the executive power. I will not dwell on the specifics of the reform strategy, which is already on the Ministry's website. I'll just say this. The story that this is not consistent, that nothing changes, that it is not good, is possible. But let's say what I've done so far. So far, the Supreme Medical Council, which was rightly said, by the way, is an organ that has not been collected for about ten years, these are the Medical Union, the Dental Union, the Pharmaceutical Union, the Nurses' Association, the Healthcare Professionals, the presented patient organisations, the Rectors of the Higher Medical Schools, that is, all involved participants in the preparation of the policies in this process unanimously, I repeat, unanimously adopted the strategy and described it, this is the strategy of the majority, as a really good opportunity to change things quickly. I have a commitment in each of the political parties to present this project. But my commitment as a minister to you as MPs is not to introduce a raw text that is not publicly discussed, the guilds that are part of it, not to have stood by it to bring you into the problem. At the moment, the Minister of Health has placed on the site something that is the subject of consensus in each of the public groups, which is part of the discussion of this problem. And yet, because this is how I imagine the political process, I will meet and look for confidence in opposition groups as well. So much for whether or not there's been a change. I don't want to talk about whether there is a change in the way we want to do this, since the entire Supreme Medical Council, since my teachers at higher medical schools have said that this is a radical change, I would agree with them, regardless of the competence of each and every one of you, which I do not dispute. There was a lot of talk about what happened to the Cashier's reserve, where it was going, which was the first time and so on. It's very simple. I thank the group of MPs from the majority who tabled these texts. This, if you will, is also a lesson from the opposition's demands from the debate in the first part of the vote at first reading. There it was clearly said by everyone that for the hospital aid needed really additional costs. This is reflected very clearly and specifically. And let's say this is really the first time this has happened. There is money guaranteed by the Cashier's reserve for an increase in the budget for hospital care. There are people here who are sufficiently familiar with the subject and know that so far no leva of the Casa Reserve has ever been transferred over the years then to hospital care in case of need. This is provided with this text. With the text on hospitals. This means a simple thing: discipline. This is the ceiling that the Cashier's Supervisory Board can spend on hospital care and represents 95% of this year's cash execution. And if someone is defending the irreplaceableness of the way the Cassata is currently happening, the way Oversight is overseeing, I will say the following. It's not good before Christmas to talk about these things. They will go to the prosecution today, but these are documents seized by the Ministry Inspectorate from one of the district hospitals. Who meant the district hospitals? The big district hospitals? Here inside, I no longer comment on the degree of cleverness of the people who are, in the reports of one of the chiefs of clinics to the director of the hospital, signed with hospital stamps, with input numbers, writes: What does the Cashier supervise? What will happen to those people who, by the way, as a guide to this hospital are not appointed by this majority? And the local head of the Cashier is also not appointed by this majority, which you are now accusing of returning to what you are. What exactly oversees the Cashier, because it's draining the money, and your money, you know? Since it's Christmas, let's say what's going on in another hospital with the accountability, these are official hospital documents that report to the Casa. This has an entry number inside the hospital! The register needs to know this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u99	Why are you telling us this?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u100	Who should I tell? You hired these people and now you're fighting to change that! [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] This is what happens in Bulgarian hospitals and that will change! [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u101	Thank you, Dr. Moskov. There are recorded speeches... Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister! I can only compare this to the speech of one Interior Minister from this tribune, who was reading some SRS in absolutely no relation to the subject at issue. Apparently, they're making those who have already called the Ministry of Health the Ministry of Populism. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u103	You're supporting all of this, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u104	Because in addition to attractive appearances related to either emergency aid or Ebola's disease, or with any dialogues and letters in any hospital, we have not heard anything so far. Sorry, the beautiful talk about your reform has absolutely no documentary clue. On your ministry's website there is a single draft law published. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, since the Minister's statement had absolutely no connection to the discussed § 10. Apparently, he came to parliament to make some accusations against some hospital directors, of which we absolutely did not know who it was about, what connection. At the very least, it is unworthy of a minister to deal with, to throw accusations against anonymous directors of hospitals, employees of the Health Insurance Fund, and I do not know what else from the parliamentary tribune. Be correct enough to do so in the normal way so that people can be protected if they will be chiefs of hospitals, employees of the Casa, whatever they are. [[GERB lines.]] The minister was expected to answer the questions we asked him, not to flood the room with populist speeches that had absolutely no connection! I'm sorry, your reform so far has been empty talk! No bills, no financial justification, except the strategies of Minister Andreeva, which you are importing, soon and for emergency aid, without even mentioning her authorship. If this is the reform of the majority that you represent, then this majority implements the programme and acts on the bills of Minister Andreeva! [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Then, indeed, in this House on healthcare, there is no government and opposition after our documents are submitted by you and you claim that they are documents of the majority! We will support you, of course. However, the only concern is in the second reading of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and § 10. Dear colleagues, let's get to the point. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] In response to the minister's populist statement, which had no connection with the Casa's budget. I'm asking you to consider our proposal. I will point to several cases of state hospitals or, more precisely, according to the Minister's terminology with his hospitals for his doctors. I'm setting an example. According to the wording of Paragraph 10, for example, Lom Hospital...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u105	It's municipal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u106	...I'm guessing that there are new representatives from the majority of the Lom hospital who have purchased appropriate equipment... Municipal or State, the wording of § 10 refers to absolutely all medical establishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u107	There's a difference. Don't talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u108	Mrs. Atanasova, according to § 10, this hospital that invested 100,000. lv. in a technique for children's surgery, which has engaged specialists, including Pirogov, who has incurred expenses for a department that has not been authorised in the following year, will not be able to carry out this activity. The hospital in Kyustendil... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u109	Colleagues, please limit calls from place to place.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u110	The hospital in Kyustendil, which has prepared a new ward of invasive cardiology, which has incurred costs, these costs will remain unused and will damage citizens in the area who need quality health care. Hospitals in Vidin. Two hospitals have bought angiographs for units for invasive cardiology, which will virtually not be able to be put into effect in the next calendar year, costs of several million leva will remain in vain. I mean, given the state hospitals, the district hospitals are in such a difficult financial situation... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Proclaims: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u111	Mrs. Manolova, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u112	...and the way to secure their financial situation in the following year is, including by opening new compartments, it is really incorrect to accept the text of § 10. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u113	Thank you. You have an opportunity for lines. Dr. Shishkov, come in. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Dr. Shishkov on the move thought you're giving up the line? [[Reply by National Representative Dimitar Shishkov.]] - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! I want to go all the way back to § 10. My speech is intended to emphasise that the submission of § 10 by the importer has its reasons. Secondly, I would like to explain why I would support the proposal of colleagues Georgi Kuchukov, Kiril Tsochev, Mariana Todorova and Miho Mihov and why I would suggest that we do not accept the proposal of our colleague from GERB to have an exception when there is a decision of a highly competent authority, only in this case. First, the importer has reason not only to prevent the draining of the Cashier, as said by colleague Kuchukov, but with this text in the Budget Act is signalled that from now on, who invests for expensive paid activities that duplicate in other places in Bulgaria and in private practices will not always rely on the Health Insurance Fund uncritically. I don't know if the Minister can hear me, but I think these motives are justified to have such a text. Why should the proposal of the colleagues I have quoted be accepted? Because, when there has been no policy to give an algorithm of good practical actions, many hospitals, who here report fragmentedly "Lom," Vidin, Kyustendil and so on, have begun to act and have already invested funds, state money. We must give them this chance and this exception that colleagues offer, which are on the last rights, so that they can obtain a license by receiving it, and also get the opportunity to work with the Health Insurance Fund. Why should we not otherwise accept your very sensible proposal, colleagues? Because there are such cases, I will not name it from Northwestern Bulgaria, where there is unprincipled competition between the state hospital, spent a million and a half, and a private collective who is willing to give everything. If he does not receive the state, no one should receive, and therefore, in order to deprive ourselves of subjectivism at this stage, before policy and principles are defined, let us accept the proposal of colleagues. In order for there to be no exception to the cases that they have claimed for a license until the 31st... now to resolve it this way, and from now on to trust that there will be a policy that will regulate and prevent this unnecessary spending of money. Not to mention the specific case, I will say that I informed myself a few minutes ago in all of Romania there are three high-medical centres, which are already 6-7 in Bulgaria and are fighting 2-3 more. Clearly, this is not optimal. This is not rational either for those who want to profit from this activity, and for those who pay their health care. However, the good text that we need to support today is the text of the four colleagues who incorporate the proposal of colleagues Philip Popov and Maya Manolova. If you want us to seek dialogue and good solutions, let us support the decision of the four colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u115	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. There are four speeches recorded, we will take turns in parliamentary groups. They're just doctors. Dr. Kardzhaliev, come in. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I was right to express myself to doctors in different areas.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u116	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! We got off the subject a little while ago. I am not convinced that emotions, fury, at least an edification, would contribute something to this particular controversy that is being conducted under this paragraph. Indeed, Mrs. Manolova's parallel is appropriate with that minister who used to read the SRS from here. If we need to talk about the specific case, we need to remind ourselves that this proposal is not a precedent. More than once, it has been proposed by one government or another, by one minister or another, but it has never been accepted. If the proposal of § 10 is adopted, it will be a precedent for Bulgaria in the 15-year development model of the health insurance system. We are concerned as a responsible political party some factors, some consequences of this decision. First of all, we must take into account that, at the expense of reducing financial resources, this is a frank discrimination of individual hospitals. Here mostly my sadness is for the new hospitals, for the new hospitals, for those we say are with high-tech equipment. Secondly, in the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Insurance Act, a very serious emphasis, and perhaps with a good reason we would support that, too, is separate from the quality and control from now on, through these changes, with regard to the medical establishments in the Republic of Bulgaria. This is precisely the quality control and satisfaction of the patient, if they are the focus in the policy of the current Minister of Health, of the Ministry of Health, of the ruling majority, but this proposal with § 10 is in a diametrically opposite direction. Because, once again, the activity is limited, the business initiative is limited, the entrepreneurship in the whole field of healthcare is limited. Among other things, this is, in a certain way, a discriminatory act on these hospitals. I do not have legal competence, but certainly, especially at the moment medical institutions that are being built would seek their rights either through the Law on Protection against Discrimination, or through the Law on Competition, was based only on the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria against this unfair limitation and discrimination of the relevant medical institutions. In short, technologically old hospitals and hospitals are favored at the expense of new, up-to-date, in which these technologies are a fact. Obviously 2015, if this text is adopted, it will be a zero year for investment in health care, i.e. a bad year for entrepreneurs in this area.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u117	Thank you, Dr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? The line has Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. There'll be a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u118	Madam President! Mr. Kardzhaliev, I think that your speech does not contribute to finding a balanced solution on the issue of putting emphasis on some initiative with public funds. Entrepreneurship is an activity that requires its own initiative, to some extent its own risk, and opportunities to profit from the use of funds. If we look at healthcare mainly through this prism, it means deepening all existing problems, as the current health system is a very good example of strong bureaucracy and fully liberalised activities combined. This is today's Bulgarian health system, through which more money and less treatment are going through. Therefore, I think that colleagues who have spoken and appealed to allow for these new activities in existing healthcare establishments, perhaps for the time being, is this compromise solution which should combine the renovation of the Bulgarian healthcare system and, together with this, not to lead to wasteful spending of money that is not planned in the budget at the moment when it is voted on. Because every new activity that has taken place during the financial year cannot be financed and each one can claim the funds for payment through the Health Insurance Fund. In addition, I think that the areas that you represent should be concerned, above all, about public health institutions, because where many of the activities that are mentioned are concentrated are in the large urban centres where there are several competing hospitals for the same expensive activities. And here are constantly given examples of the creation of new sectors right where they are already unnecessary much. This must be done and indeed, if there is talk of reforms, they should be aimed at improving health and people's access, not just under the slogans that have been sharing since the beginning of health reform. We can see that the results are mostly negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u119	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! According to § 10, everything Mr. Kardzhaliev and the other colleagues said is right. Paragraph 10 shall stop the business initiative. That's right. But in this case, we're talking about something completely different. We are here on the verge of reforming the introduction of a new system for financial management in Bulgarian healthcare. This thing can't happen on the move, and it can't happen on the move. The really first step is to close the frame you're in right now, make the reform, and replay it. That's how it's done. This is not a suspension of the business initiative, but a temporary limitation of activity until the new system enters. I'm setting an example with this if you want to change your lights at home with a new one, shouldn't you turn off the power first? Does anyone mess with the power just like that? It could be a big foul, couldn't it? During the implementation of a new model of finance management, do not reach the money for example and become a coliseum in the middle of the year.. Neither can you fix the other. And I am convinced that the Minister wants to make the reform. I'm sure of it! Because he acts in the right steps, he's not in the wrong steps. Even what Mrs Manolova said about being populist and using the National Assembly as an easier dialogue with the population, this is the right way to do it. The minister is usually in this position because he is a political person. He's not a doctor here. I'll never go to him now to see if I have pneumonia or have pneumonia and write me a prescription. That's not his job at all. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] He's in a cabinet. He's not in a doctor's office at all. Must be popular.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u121	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u122	It should be with a positive opinion in society that when he proposed the measures, he should have more confidence in him. When she comes to you and tells you, Mrs. Manolova, to me these are the measures that...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u123	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u124	I'm done! ...you see it in another aspect.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u125	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u126	I'm done! So I suggest that we give him a six-month chance. If the reform does not work, then it is very easy for the same National Assembly to bring down § 10 and the subject to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u127	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. Any other lines? I won't. Dr. Kardzhaliev, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u128	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Stoilov, this is one aspect that you have shown in this tribune. My aspect was different. I am not contradicting you as you are not questioning my thesis in relation to the medical facilities that I mentioned. However, as an answer to your question and to your reply, I must say that there is no way we can escape from this state-public beginning in the Bulgarian healthcare sector in the distant 1989. Since then fortunately, I am sure that despite the shortcomings in modern health, this system is not up to date and is not part of the Bulgarian healthcare system. Another answer to your line. We must also acknowledge that the modern Bulgarian Constitution implies equality in the rights of economic entities. My speech was precisely from this point of view, recognizing the rights, in the same volume and completeness, both of private and public and municipal hospitals. With regard to Mr. Abu Melih's line, perhaps you're right, we should also find that the suspension is temporary. That is, the zero year is fixed, limited in time from December 1st to December 31st. All right! But this person or this company, this company, which is at the end of the construction of some medical establishment, between Act 16 and the first day of work, concluded with the Health Insurance Fund and acquiring money from public resources, how will it manage its expenses? From this point of view, I think it is unfair and once again I repeat that § 10 is a discriminatory paragraph in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u129	Thank you, Dr. Kardjaliev. The word asked for the Minister of Health. Here you are, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This may really be one of the toughest and how to say the most turning texts outside the numbers in the budget. It really is a matter of philosophy what should be done, a clear assessment that this has a price and a firm idea that this price should start to be paid from one point on in order to actually make things better. Here somehow the conversation shifted in a private and state direction. I'm the last person to share medical facilities in the form of property. I am also absolutely aware that each of these two somehow parallel living forms of property in healthcare has its own specifics, good and weak points and they need to be complemented. However, I urge the Members of the National Assembly to vote on the text in the way it is proposed. Different things came out. Some say it's bad for district hospitals; others say it's bad for private hospitals; others say it's bad for small hospitals. In fact, good or bad, it's for everyone. It's the good thing! We say that for everyone from this date there we have such a resource within the next year. We optimize it, change the way we finance, so that the things I read before you can't continue to happen. Therefore, we invest in something that exists. I do not want to repeat the truths that have been told by every parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] What don't you understand? I don't want to repeat things spoken by every parliamentary group here. We have an average of 1.6 more beds for active treatment than mid-European and about the more hospitals than European. This must be put an end to it. We had a conversation with Dr. Ademov at first reading. He said there should be a preparatory period. Yes, we should, but if we really think alike, and we're not protecting certain lobbying interests, it should have been at stake last year if we had a common philosophy. That is, we are starting with the clarity that there is a refurbished system that we have done everything possible to be financed within the parameters of everything that it has fulfilled this year. An opportunity to expand this activity? We've got $2 million. 200,000. people hospitalized this year! On average, ten new hospitals enter into active action on an annual basis and respectively the Cashier is obliged to conclude contracts with them, value and spend money. When a country is in crisis and Bulgaria is in crisis, the resource is centralized and is repositioned against the targets. The target can't be any more hospitals! Please! Support the text as bet!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u131	You forbid no more private hospitals!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u132	No, I can't ban it, because it's something about a legal requirement. You, as MPs, have obliged me to sign any permission. I'm asking you to cancel this because it's not right. [[Noise and lines from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u133	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Are there any speeches? Docent Shishkov is the first of those recorded. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u134	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! We have mentioned several times that in recent years the budget has increased several times, have we not?! It has increased precisely that everyone in every curved palanquin has decided to make a hospital. And why does someone decide to have a hospital anywhere they want?! Firstly, because the Ministry had no role in regulating precisely those private interests involved. I can declare to you that I do not participate in any board of private hospitals. However, I believe much of you who defend this particular thesis that you cannot declare this thing. How come doctors left Bulgaria, nurses left Bulgaria, we have a shortage of medical staff and at the same time private hospitals are constantly being found everywhere?! How is it that, when we talk about equality, the rights delegated to private hospitals are to a greater extent, and in public hospitals that take on the big job and most of the surgical work, for example, in emergencies, are quite different?! And why do they keep talking about cardio-invasive medicine? Why is everyone mentioning this thing? I'll tell you why. Because the big kalepier is there. There's a head of cardio-invasive surgery or cardiology getting about 50,000. lv. I've seen this ticket! Is that the big one?! And what do you want us to do now to find new hospitals, new health care directions in any backwater to continue draining the Casa?! And why, when this hospital is opened, suddenly there is a great delegated budget? Where does this delegated budget come from?! How is it that the unemployed hospital on 80-90 beds has a 9 million delegated budget, and for example a hospital such as Plovdiv County Hospital has a 16,5 million delegated budget on 670 beds?! Do you make a difference what it is?! I will not say the names because a large part of you are in the National Assembly and have economic interests precisely from this! [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] No, I'm not gonna tell you, because right now, there's gonna be a douchebag, a line, and that's how we're gonna have it by tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u135	If you don't say the names, that means you include everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u136	I'll show them to you myself, written on a sheet.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u137	You have to name everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u138	No, not all of them. Of course not all of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u139	Please don't engage in dialogue! Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u140	But I declared I wasn't a part of it. Announce yourself if you want. It's okay, okay. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Am I right, Mr. Ademov? I think I'm right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u141	Don't call from the spot, you're interfering with the speaker, please. Docent Shishkov, please do not enter into dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u142	Tell me exactly who they are!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u143	Okay, I'll show you. I promise I'll do this thing. If you want, I'll do it anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u144	If you want, you can finish your speech and come down and talk to each other there.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u145	The Minister is absolutely right, he's absolutely right in what needs to be done! Finally, the Ministry has to take its regulatory responsibilities that it has. And we have to back him up on this thing! There can't be 45 hospitals in Plovdiv and, for example, in Devin, there's something we need to think about. I'm talking about something else. We're not talking about...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u146	That's an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u147	It doesn't matter. The point is that this is an example, an example! And whether it's Devon, Kyustendil or something, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u148	It matters!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u149	No, it doesn't matter. Then who gives out the permits to have nearly 100 hospitals in Sofia?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I don't know who, it wasn't me. I am for the first time in the National Assembly and fully support the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u150	Thank you, Assoc. Shishkov. - What's the line? Mr. Mikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Shishkov, you ask why this happened. Because in 1999, the health system was placed in the field of free competition. Then I was in parliament, unlike you, and we warned what was going to happen. The private sector can set aside corrupt money and is therefore much more dynamic in providing permits, licenses and any other procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u152	And what did Tanya Andreeva do?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u153	Secondly, the State in the Minister's face, if it is sincere in this intention, should introduce a text in the Law that no one can start a medical establishment without prior permission of the Ministry, which depends on the necessity. However, such a decision is not being proposed now. A decision is proposed to partially limit competition in the sector without taking into account that when a law, a provision is not predictable in time, there will undoubtedly be many claims against the State for investments made so far. In fact, this decision, made on 1 December, does not differ particularly from the other decision regarding the transfer from the additional provision to the NSI. It's no different than anything else. They're both in a short period, no prognosis. Unlike that, investments have been made here. I don't know how many. And if we really want to protect what you are talking about, and what the minister declares that he wants, we must, firstly, have forecastability; secondly, immediately after the New Year to be introduced and to say: [[The President signals that the time for reply has expired.]] That's the way it is. And what's done, then we'll see if it's accepted, who it serves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u154	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u155	Dear colleague, you mentioned conflict of interest, private interests and so on. [[Radio.]] I've transferred everything to my wife. Where are you? I can't see you. [[Radio.]] Property, not management. It makes me sick to hear you say that. I'm getting sick. Now let's agree on one thing: please do not enter into the process of opposition to property: what is private, which is state, which is municipal, which is mixed property. I suggest you go with the advice from the Netherlands, which is given to the World Health Organization on how reforms are being made. In step one, the following is written:.. Get all the amateur politicians out of the key places to make an operational decision in health care................................that's what the Dutch say, I don't say it. How privates were bad, and public hospitals were good, that is not a good way to talk. Because I can give you an official reference where you can see what the costs are for public hospitals that the Health Insurance Fund gives them and what the costs are for private hospitals. Let me give you a reference to the state hospitals at what price they buy the analgina, for example, and see the privates at what price they buy it. If you want, I can give you the balance of a hospital, my hospital balance will give you to see the percentage of how things are spent. Don't give a shit based on what you heard on TV and what you've been suggesting for years. For your information, the sweetest private is in the state hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u156	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u157	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. Third line, Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u158	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Shishkov! I will also agree with Mr. Shishkov's thesis, even more so, that he, as a reformer, speaks also on behalf of the Minister, if it is his thesis that it is indeed high time to put order in the creation of private new hospitals and in particular the opportunities for their funding by the National Health Insurance Fund. Yes, money is not enough, it is not enough and it is normal to target them where Bulgarian citizens need both hospital care and sufficient access to health care. So in this sense, reformers and the Minister of the Reformation Bloc state a left-wing policy that we from BSP left Bulgaria. But, sorry, § 10 only seems left-handed because it does not limit the creation of new hospitals and the receipt of resources from the Health Insurance Fund from these hospitals. In practice, this paragraph tightens the noose around municipal and state hospitals. And I declare that I have absolutely no interest in any hospital, and I would only admit that I am a lobbyist at the hospital of Dear Mr. Moskov in Kyustendil. His hospital in Kyustendil, his doctors will have huge problems with the text of § 10. It's a hospital with no obligations, it's a hospital for which we have no relation to the appointment of management, a hospital that works by the rules and that's why it gets weak. The only chance this hospital has is to create new wards. And this opportunity is taken away by the health minister and by this majority. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And he doesn't bother to listen to the debate in the hall, by the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova, the time has passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u160	He came in with one folder from which to read some samples against directors of some hospitals, as did other ministers, which is at least not respectful and is not honorable behavior in this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u161	Mrs. Manolova, it's not respectful, and since I've given you twice a sound signal that time has run out, to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u162	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u163	Before that, please, colleagues, is there a next line?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u164	There were three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u165	Here you go, Dr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u166	Just one word. Since it is left-wing policy, we have a left-wing party, let us vote precisely for this § 10 and support the minister. Let's put things together left and right to make health care work properly. And to suggest that we stop this nonsense debate and move on to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u167	There's a record of speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u168	Where there is a record, a proposal shall be made for the termination of the deliberations. If there's no record of what to terminate?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u169	It's a counterproposal. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u170	Just when there is a recording, Dr. Ademov, such a procedure is made. Mr. Mikov has the floor for a counterproposal of the procedural proposal to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u171	Thank you, Madam President. I'm against it. Not all arguments have been heard, and the adoption of this text will cause serious damage to the state, first. [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] You'll damage the state, Mr. Minister, and I'll explain how later. Secondly, this text will damage public and municipal healthcare. Thirdly, this text violates the principles of competition. Fourth, let all who are in the National Assembly and have interests related to private hospitals say why do they want to limit users of resources from the Health Insurance Fund in this unpredictable way? That's what he's done so far. We're here to limit the growth of new establishments. But there's got to be a forecast for one month, two months, three months. Because all those who have made legitimate investments have the right to sue the state. And they're gonna get their papers out, and they're gonna sue the state for damages. I want you to be aware of this and to explain it to you in more detail in my speech. So I suggest we continue the discussion. Otherwise, we'll explain it again afterwards, but it'll be too late. But know and know who is responsible for doing this damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u172	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to end the debate under § 10 by importer, which is § 11 in the Commission's report. Vote 141 MPs: for 89, against 49, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u173	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a re-voting procedure. Some of my colleagues have failed to vote. [[Radio, lines and calls from GERB.]] Really, it is! [[Noise and lines.]] I also call on my colleagues from those who are MPs from Vidin from Kyustendil. Think about what you're doing right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u174	There are other district cities, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u175	When you get back to the regions, what will you explain to the people there?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u176	Revoting procedure. Don't be angry, colleagues! Mr. Popov stands up and fails to vote. Indeed, I see that it is difficult for him to right from the wall to vote, as well as the other colleagues who are still acting the same way at the time of the revoting. [[BSP LB.]] Is there anyone else who hasn't been able to vote? Vote 164 MPs: 100, against 60, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Kuchukov, Kiril Tsochev, Mariana Todorova and Miho Mihov. The Commission does not support this proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] You guys ready? Did everyone get a vote? Vote 169 MPs: 71, against 64, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova and Philip Popov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Did everyone get a vote? Vote 171 MPs: 72 against 91, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. According to the report, the next proposal belongs to Mrs. Maya Manolova, but it is absolutely identical with what we have already voted on, only once she submitted it on her own, once with Mr. Philip Popov. We have already adopted a decision on this proposal, but before we get to the vote on the main text in the House Mr. Kiril Dobrev made an addition which essentially suggests that there should be a next sentence to the Commission, which sounds like this: Within the meaning of our Rules and Rules of Second Voting, only editorial amendments can be made. This proposal does not fall within the scope of possible editorial changes, as it introduces new substance and new content in the text, which is why it is unacceptable to put it to the vote. I now put to the vote § 10 by importer, which becomes § 11, in its version of the Commission's report. We vote. Vote 173 MPs: 101, against 64, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! I voted against it because this text is unconstitutional. I voted against this text because this text has the only purpose to preserve the resources of the Health Insurance Fund for those who have been authorised to operate so far. I voted against it because, if the Minister said that he wanted to become a text in law, he had to propose precisely a procedure in the law giving prior permission to start building, not when investments were made, to interrupt the possibility by administrative means of not granting permission under the adopted text. I voted against it because I am convinced that claims will be brought against the state, which will be won in the Bulgarian court. And it must be clear who is responsible for these hundreds of thousands, and perhaps millions, no one knows who will be limited by activity. All of this will one day have to be removed from the stenogram and it will be clear who is who. Otherwise, we, Mr. Minister, will submit a text saying that you will authorise the construction of new hospitals in advance before starting the investment and not after the investments have been made, to stop them and, except for direct losses, they will claim lost benefits. On all these grounds. You could have given some reasonable time for this, but, so you decided so be it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u178	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Minister Moskov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Really as a person, not from my position as a minister, thank you for this decision, because I know it is very difficult. I also thank the MPs who supported him because I know how hard it is, how hard this thing is being defended. Mr. Mikov, I agree with everything you say, and it has something else to do with something else called a mandatory health card. It's not my fault that at the moment it looks like the number of residents, the number of beds and on this base what you are. It is much more administrative than what is being proposed today. This health card is currently being processed jointly with all stakeholders and will be offered to the attention and approval of the National Assembly in March, which will give all the really meaningful justification and clarity why in one place there can and on another there can be no new power independent of the business initiative but the medical need for it. Through a public fund, of course, or anyone can do whatever they want. Otherwise, these are stages. Right now, what we're doing is clogging the holes so the ship doesn't sink. These are emergency measures. And the reconstruction of the ship, and on the move, as Mr. Abu Melih says, is a complex effort for which we will seek your support as well. Thanks again!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u180	Mrs. Yordanova, report the last two texts that are imported so we can finish the bill before the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u181	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become §13.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u182	Anblok, we are voting on paragraphs 12 and 13 on the Commission report. They voted 153 MPs: 103, against 31, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, on the eve of Christmas the parliament will participate in the fundraising campaign for musical instruments of prominent children from the Project "Successful Children of Bulgaria" "Dimitar Berbatov" Foundation. In minutes a charity exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative and the funds from the sale of the paintings will be for the Fund of the Successful Children. With a special video message to the MPs and guests will turn Dimitar Berbatov. I invite all MPs to attend the event, and I have a request and an expectation that all parliamentary groups or individual MPs will participate in the initiative to support young Bulgarian talents, which is to say, I expect ransoms of children's drawings. Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 12:10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u183	We continue with the second point of our program: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2015 Report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u184	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Budget Bill on State Social Security for 2015, No 402-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, adopted on the first vote on 9 December 2014. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u185	Statements? I won't. I hope there are voices to vote on the title of the law. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the law. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Cancel the vote. I'm adjourned. We'll continue at 12:30, there's no quorum. (12.30) (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u186	The hearing is ongoing. A statement on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, outside the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u187	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! DECLARATION On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Political party GERB. Yesterday, during Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's visit to Brussels, the European Commission approved for Bulgaria the new Operational Programme "Transport" for the period 2014-2020. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Thanks to this, around 4 billion will be invested in our country. lv. for road and railway infrastructure for the next 6 years. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] The decision of the European Commission is not a coincidence nor an emotional gesture to Bulgaria. It is a fair assessment of Brussels for the work of the new Bulgarian government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. In just a month and a half the cabinet of the President of GERB Boyko Borisov managed to thaw the payments of the euro funds under the second operational programme after the Environment. As of today, before traveling back to Bulgaria, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov ensured the restoration of new 7.3 million. lv. and Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity." [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Thus, only in the last week Prime Minister Borisov and his team provided another 30 million. lv. in various operational programmes. What's the score? From 20 November to 19 December this year the European Commission paid Bulgaria a total of 292 million. Euros thanks to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and his ministers. [[Applause from GERB.]] However, Bulgarian citizens must not forget that these euro coins were irrevocably lost to the country by the three coalitions of the DPS, BSP and Ataka. And while the Oresharski experiment caused disastrous damage to the state, measuring with billions of lost European funds, bank collapse and compromised trust by our Euro-Atlantic partners, the economic team of GERB and Boyko Borisov did not stop working and prepare for the days when we will have to save the state again after the devastating management of another triple coalition. Today GERB is again the party that brings Bulgaria back to the path of European development. The historical truth that when Boyko Borisov and GERB rule, all EU funds for our country work, and when BSP and DPS come, all EU funds stop this again. In this way it becomes clear that GERB is the political power, which is the true guarantor of the Euro-Atlantic civilized choice of Bulgaria. The attention witnessed to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for the last week and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, and Germany's Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel, and British Prime Minister David Cameron, and the EPP leaders, is an undisputed sign of Europe's trust in GERB and Boyko Borisov. We are determined to continue to bear this responsibility because future generations will not forgive us if we waste another lost chance for the European development of Bulgaria. We call on colleagues to the left and the center to finally enter the role of constructive opposition and stop rocking the boat in which we are all together as a nation. We also call on colleagues who committed to support the government a month and a half ago: work nationally responsible, instead of looking for fictional reasons for confrontation in difficult but reformist actions of GERB. The door to elections is always open and we're ready for them. However, this will deprive Bulgarian citizens of the opportunity to take advantage of European solidarity as an instrument for prosperity. At the beginning of today's meeting, where we will vote on the most important law after the Constitution, we call on all political forces in the Forty-third National Assembly to have positive attitude and constructive dialogue in the debates of Budget 2015. Today, the parties in the Bulgarian Parliament can prove that in the name of national interest we can give the government legislative support that it needs to continue to work as successfully as on its first day. We are ready to listen with respect to all reasonable arguments for changes in the budget 2015 bill, but as bearers of responsibility for the financial stability of the state we will firmly defend the policies the government has planned to support the pro-European development of Bulgaria. We expect support from all MPs who want the successful absorption of European funds and reforming the key sectors for the state to continue. Do not succumb to populist squanders, because they put a pole in the wheel of reforms, which Prime Minister Boyko Borisov launched again. GERB will also support at second reading the draft law of the government for Budget 2015. Support it and you for a stable Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u188	We continue with the second reading of the 2015 State Social Security Budget Bill. We've tried to vote on the name, and so far we've stopped. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the law. They voted 126 MPs: 118, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u189	Madam President, I am doing a procedure for admission in the hall of Bisser Petkov, Manager of NSI, Vesela Karaivanova, Governor of NSI, Antoaneta Gancheva, Chief Actuary, Snezhana Malakova, Director of Legal Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u190	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u191	Art. 1. (1) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of state social security for revenue and transfers of a total amount of 9 633 205,5 thousand. BGN, according to the attached table. (2) It shall adopt the consolidated budget of the State Social Security for the expenditure and transfers of a total amount of 9 629 267 thousand. BGN, according to the attached table. (3) Adopts deficit (excess) and funding under the state social security budget, as follows, according to the attached table. A proposal was made by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u192	Colleagues, the unsupported proposal cannot be read as it is in the form of a table and cannot be reported. It shall apply to the stenogram as it is to the report. Alinea 1 I want to be read by the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u193	Alinea first reads: It shall adopt the general budget of state social security under revenue and transfers of a total of 9 753 205,5 thousand. lv. ", according to the attached table.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u194	Statements? Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u195	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From BSP we suggest that the revenue is increased by 120 million. BGN, as a source of this increase we point to the increase of the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income. Currently the current one is 2,400 BGN. The government proposes to become BGN 2,600, our proposal is to increase it to BGN 3000. That would affect about 80 grand. people who are currently provided at around 3000 BGN, but would bring an additional 120 million. lv. In the budget of the State Social Security as follows, the allocation of revenue: for the Fund, the Pensions would provide more by 103 million. 400,000.; for the General Disease $100,000.; for the Unemployment Fund, we offer 3.5 million, with policies that would be financed from these additional revenues and that amount to 112 million in the statement of expenditure. 400,000. Accordingly, they are once again for the Pensions and for the General Disease and Marriages and for the Unemployment Fund. Why are we doing this? Because, fellow Members, we believe that when we make proposals for social policy, we cannot only make proposals for expenditure without pointing to where the revenue comes from. Because we are doing it meaningfully and truly convinced that we need to strengthen social policy through the budget of state social security. That is why absolutely correct and, I assure you, our professional proposal to increase the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income to 3000 BGN. is a serious source of serious social spending policy. Each of our proposals on expenditure will protect where it belongs in the relevant text. It is an increase in child benefit, an increase in compensation, unemployment, and so on. In these places, we will accordingly protect these spending policies. Now I ask you to support this proposal on an increase in revenue, so that we can also guarantee the costs afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u197	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! We need to vote on art. 1. Once again, what Mrs Ninova said very clearly and categorically about our proposals, because, fellow Members, if we do not now vote on this, then the policies that we propose and will be debated, simply the debate will remain meaningless. The draft budget for state social security envisions an increase in revenue, as prepared, with 3% and expenditure by 2.7%. Our proposal is to increase revenue and therefore costs by 1,25% or 120 million, which we have said where it can be provided. The draft Law on the Budget of State Social Security reflects the views and philosophy of the ruling majority in the field of insurance relations. In its Programme Declaration, the parliamentary majority stated intentions to ensure long-term policies; adequate levels of social benefits and payments; sustainable growth in labour income and pensions; reduction of unemployment; promotion of responsible parenting and countering the demographic catastrophe. There are no beginnings of any long-term policies in the submitted draft budget. From the budget presented, colleagues are not prominent economic and demographic indicators on the basis of which revenue and expenditure on the individual funds are estimated. The increase of maximum insurance income from 2400 to 2600 BGN is a positive moment for revenue and is in the right direction. We believe that this is insufficient and we need to achieve the ratio of 1 to 10 between minimum wage and maximum social income. The direct effect of this increase will affect a small part of the two million and two hundred thousand Bulgarian pensioners. With regard to expenditure, we state that the following policies need to be provided: - the compensation for raising a child from 1 to 2 years shall be at the level of the minimum wage for 2015; - eliminate the modification of the period for calculating the benefit for pregnancy and childbirth from 18 to 24 months; - the increase of the minimum amount of monetary unemployment benefit to 9,70; - stopping the increase in age and internship for retirement and introducing flexible retirement conditions. Despite the increase of the minimum wage for 2015 the amount of compensation for raising a child from 1 to 2 years to 340 BGN remains.The period for calculating benefits for pregnancy and childbirth is increased from 18 to 24 months; all other benefits for children and families are frozen and not changed. The change in the period for calculating the benefit for pregnancy and childbirth from 18 to 24 months is not in favor of the insured mothers and this will actually lead to a reduction in its size. The financial effect on the revenue side is minimal and I ask myself the question: why is this actually being done? Perhaps because it was part of the package of social measures adopted by the Forty-second National Assembly?! Maintaining the minimum amount of unemployment benefits 7.20 is a clear violation of standards and again opposes insured persons, especially when they become unemployed. The increase of the minimum wage to 380 BGN. by the end of 2015, provided that the amount of the cash compensation must be 60% of the income over the last 24 months in view of the occurrence of the risk means that the minimum amount of the compensation must reach 9,70. This will affect a significant number of unemployed Bulgarians who have provided themselves and will receive unemployment benefits. As far as pensions are concerned, I see only a continuation of the policy. For all other policy on, colleagues, we will say our motives, but I repeat again what I started with: if we vote now art. 1 as proposed, the debate on the other members will be meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u198	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u199	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I will try not to repeat what my fellow Members have said. The importance of what we are voting on right now really implies our further vote and the debates that will develop. I am going out on the stand to say that this budget of state social security and in general the budget of the state, but now we are talking specifically about state social security, we have defined it as a budget of freezing, of stagnation and so on. With this proposal for art. One, still in para. 1 We offer you a move that will untie your hands to make this budget out of one budget of a freeze. As far as I remember 14 of the social payments are frozen on it. Increase the maximum insurance income BGN 2600, as you suggest, which we support, go a little further to raise the maximum taxable income to 3000 BGN. This will bring new 120 million leva into the budget of the DVO and will enable these social payments, the majority of which we have proposed further in our proposals, to be untied and increased, in general, as the benefits become adequate. I call on the entire House to support this proposal. In fact, by increasing this maximum social security income, the income for the treasury, in general, will be around 160 million, some of which will go for health insurance to the National Health Insurance Fund. According to our estimates, around 120 million will enter the revenue section of the 2015 DVO budget, with 103.4 million being in the Pension Fund and then we will not be wondering how to finance this freezing of age until a specific decision is made. 13 million will go to the General Disease and Marriage Fund. $100,000. lv. And then we won't be wondering, rather, being forced to freeze payments for raising a child from 2 to 3 years, for example. Then we will not have to increase the period for calculating maternity benefits from 18 to 24 months. Then this will untie our hands to increase the income in the Unemployment Fund, the daily unemployment benefit. So, for me, it is logical for the maximum social income to increase and not only to increase itself, but to introduce some automation here in all of the action. My view, and also my colleagues from the parliamentary group, is that in all payments we need to introduce some automation that does not depend on the situation of management, but to be sustainable in time. Here our view of the maximum insurance income is that it becomes in a ratio of 1 to 10 with the minimum wage. As an argument in this direction, I will say one more thing. We, in the other budget, of course, stop the return of the lowest incomes by paying them back the taxes they have taken, canceling this tax refund, which has taken the workers on a minimum wage, while at the same time sparing the people with higher incomes, and from one border to another we do not tax them on incomes. There's nothing social about this approach. I understand that at the moment the state is governed by right-wing formations which should normally protect the higher income people, but understand that in Bulgaria for 25 years this moment has not come where we protect the high-income citizens. We need to focus on people who can barely make ends meet. Sorry for your long speech and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u200	Thank you for putting yourself through time. Thank you, Mr. Gokov. There are no lines. Are there any other MPs? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Sighs: "Eee!" on the left and on the center.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u201	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I see the desire of colleagues from BSP, I take the floor for speech, with the following principle position. It is high time, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, that I address you as a reasonable person I have known for a long time, such measures as increasing the minimum wage, increasing the maximum social security threshold, being bound by a specific financial model, and not becoming on the principle some people meet, think and finally make a decision that can hardly be justified by a particular economic reality. It is high time for this to start on the basis of a longer-term model, behind which there is a broad public consensus, and not to have one such bidding. a higher salary, another 60, and eventually employers want a bigger increase and we accept some average arithmetic. That is, good governance requires such decisions for the minimum wage, for the minimum wage, for the maximum insurance threshold to begin to be taken on the basis of a specific economic reality and a model that we respect and will be respected by every next government. Otherwise see what comes out of BSP colleagues without serious argumentation, by the way, and say that this maximum insurance threshold is low without saying low against what, low against what? They want a higher increase without having specific motivation. On the other hand, we can hardly motivate why exactly such an increase in the maximum social security threshold we are proposing for Budget 2015. It's hard to tell exactly why, not more or less. I know that this task is not easy and I know that this model is the one in which some people meet and make decisions that are unfortunately unfounded is from the last 20 years. It is by no means something that I blame on you or this ruling majority, but the point is that it should not continue this way from now on. It should not be at some meetings with the social partners without the social partners making such key decisions for the development of the Bulgarian economy. So we will support the editorial work of the Committee on these texts and, of course, we will vote against the proposal of our fellow Members from the BSP. But we need a new approach and a new model - not in the approach people meet and make important decisions, but the approach of a clear development model from now on. Because increasing the minimum wage is no longer a painless solution. Compare Sofia with Vidin, Vratsa, Montana. These are already two different economic realities, and I hate to say it, but it is. If the minimum wage is rare in Sofia and its increase for a city like Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna is a much smaller problem, for Vidin, Vratsa, Montana the problem is very serious. It must be seen whether there should no longer be a regional approach with regard to these indicators and be linked to the development of the region concerned. I know this will complicate the method of calculation and work, but it's much fairer. Can we now determine the same minimum wage, for example, for Sofia, Vidin, Vratsa and Montana and this be fair? Very hard. If we see the level of employment, the average level of income, then in the levels of income between Sofia and Plovdiv, on the one hand, and Vidin and Vratsa, the difference is in times. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm using that you're here. Perhaps you should consider a regional approach and the adoption of a financial model from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u202	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Is there anyone else who would like to make other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 137 MPs: 44, against 82, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text of the importer for art. 1... For a re-voting?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u203	Colleague Tasco Ermenkov failed to vote. It's very important to him personally. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's why the re-voting procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u204	Please re-vote procedure for the MP Tasco Ermenkov. 140 MPs voted: 47, against 84, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Now we can move on to voting on the text of the importer for art. 1. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 91, 47, abstention 2. The text of the importer for art. 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u205	Art. 2. (1) The budget of the Fund shall be adopted by means of revenue and transfers of a total of 6 191 503.2 thousand. BGN as follows (according to the table attached): (2) It shall adopt the budget of the Fund for the expenditure and transfers of a total of 8 009 533.3 thousand. BGN as follows (according to the table attached): (3) Adopts budget deficit of the Fund as follows: 1 818 030,1 There is a proposal from the MP Mikhail Mikov and a group according to the attached table. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u206	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u207	Mr. Chairman, please allow me two sentences outside of the Rules. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u208	Out of the book...?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u209	Colleagues, if you're going to react like this in any text, you're absolutely deprecating parliamentary activity. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We've made suggestions, I want to go out there and protect them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u210	You have the floor. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u211	I'm not wasting your time! I'll make an argument to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u212	Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u213	Don't take away my right to speak on a proposal I've made. If every time I raise my hand, you react to me like this, it won't work, understand! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] We propose to increase the revenue part of the Fund of Pensions by 103 million. 400,000. lv. This increase in the Fund was followed by the increase of the maximum insurance income to 3 thousand. lv. Why are we offering this? To provide money for the early retirement offered by us, which is: if you don't have two years of internship or age, you can retire earlier by 0.4% lower pension per month and get it for the rest of your life. Because of this additional cost to people who are not at work because they are elderly and do not accept them, but are young and cannot retire to provide this additional cost, we offer these additional incomes to the Pension Fund. Such people who can benefit from this right are about 5-6 thousand people per year who can use their right to flexible or early retirement, as we call it. Those are our arguments. I think we can help those people who neither the labour market accepts nor are in retirement age to get a pension. They don't have any income. Early retirement gives them one chance. Moreover, early retirement by 0.4% lower threshold per month does not burden the NSI budget, does not constitute an additional deficit in the NSI budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u214	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I stand before you again to support this proposal. These 103 million are also needed for the freezing of the retirement age with which you agree, and they are also needed for what we offer..................................................................................... which is available in a number of European countries. Without repeating colleague Cornelia Ninova, I would like to tell you that this flexible retirement, among other things, will enable the release of places for young people who are about to start their work. Seeing that in the budget forecast for the coming years you either do not foresee a reduction in unemployment or, if you are predicting such a reduction, it is quite minimal, there is no place for young people who are yet to enter the labour market. At a later time, we will get to the point where young people who are now starting their work route when they retire, although they will be over the years, will not have the necessary work experience. Then it will be pointless to raise age when they cannot meet the second condition for the required, required service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u216	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We close the debates and move on to the vote on art. 2. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. They voted 133 MPs: 44, against 84, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 2. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 88, against 48, abstention 4. The text of the importer for art. Two has been accepted. Please, Mrs. Yordanova, move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u217	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 3 and Art. 4 according to the attached tables.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u218	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the texts of the importer for art. Art. 3 and Art. 4 together with the tables attached to them. Vote 136 MPs: 86, against 45, abstention 5. The texts of the importer shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Art. 3 and Art. Four, along with the tables, have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u219	Under art. 5 there is a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, according to the attached table. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u220	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My special request will be to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin to receive support for our proposal for art. 5. Honourable Members, we are talking about our proposal for an increase of 20 million, I repeat, with 20 million, the costs. What's the $20 million going to do? It is envisaged that an increase in the period for which maternity is calculated will again be increased from 18 to 24 months. I remember Mr. Borisov's government's application and programming declaration. There, Mr. Kalfin, you were supposed to play the role of the social corrective. You are also responsible for demographic policy. Can anyone explain to me how we are struggling with demographic policy as one of the small changes we are making with the State Social Security Budget is to increase again the period on which maternity is calculated, which essentially, colleagues, is damaging Bulgarian mothers? Notice, the amount we need, the amount that the Public Insurance Budget will win is just over 6 million BGN. What sign, what signal and in what way can we believe that in Mr. Borisov's government his second government, demographic policy has been taken as a priority? My request is to support this proposal of ours, as it also means updating motherhood, which is obtained by Bulgarian mothers to raise a child from one to two years old, the size of the increase in the minimum wage. That's another 14 million. lv. I think it was a good conquest that we restored as a practice and as a model. It may be small, but it is a sign of empathy and support to Bulgarian mothers and it is certainly a step in overcoming the severe demographic situation in which the country is located. Therefore, Mr. Kalfin, it is particularly difficult for me personally to understand the policy we are pursuing with the state social security budget, how it is linked to the purpose and programming declaration of your government, where demographic policy has been taken as a priority.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u222	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 133 MPs: 40, against 82, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to the text of the importer for art. 5 which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 124 MPs: 84, against 38, abstention 2. The text of the importer for art. Five has been accepted. The word asked for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social and Demographic Policy Ivaylo Kalfin. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor so I don't take it on every text and every proposal, because Mr. Boychev turned to me just now. All the proposals are very nice, very wonderful and we all want mothers to receive a lot of money, pensions to increase significantly, there is more money available and so on. However, this is a budget and the revenue and expenditure should be leveled out. Including the proposals you made just now to increase the maximum social security income, we are increasing the maximum social security income. In practice, what you are proposing is to increase and 120 million additionally to benefit from the benefits. Yes, it is true that over 3000 BGN of income, which already means an average of about 150 BGN. each to pay more insurance to provide these 120 million leva. My suggestion is for these steps to be smooth, not done at once. Perhaps in the previous parliament you could also increase the maximum insurance income by about 1000 BGN, for example, but you did not do it by as much but by 200 BGN as we propose for next year. So we keep the same step that goes on and on. With regard to the funds related to early retirement. I was listening to arguments a little while ago. You cannot ask for early retirement, and with the argument that it is for people who do not have incomes of Mrs. Nino, and the argument that people before retirement will benefit from it and will leave early in retirement, which belongs to Mr. Gokov. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u224	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u225	These two arguments kind of don't add up. Indeed, people have a problem - not those who work, because most of them want to work even longer and get longer working incomes. The problem is those who don't have income before retirement. And I support one such proposal in a different version than the one you have imported, only that does not relate to another freezing of retirement age. And I'm going to tell you that this year, in 2014, 43% more people are retiring because of the freezing of retirement age, and 74% more servicemen, notice. So if we continue this way, we will actually make our pension system completely emptied of own resources, which will depend solely on the subsidy from the budget. So let's not argue. It's the same for motherhood. It started at 9 months, extended to 12 months, then 18, then 24, now still 18 months old. Almost every year, this term for motherhood is changed. And I don't want to change every year. But with these changes, never once has this thing reflected, for example, the birth rate. Instead of populism, let us really get into it to specify all the parameters of a pension system that are not limited to private funds and then try to make changes that are lasting over time and not every year to want something different. Now you want to do something you didn't do last year. Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u226	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u227	Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u228	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Yordanova, please continue with art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u229	Article 6. A proposal was made by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, according to the attached table. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u230	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! With this proposal of ours to increase costs by 33.3 million in the Unemployment Fund, we want to finance the increase of the minimum daily rate for compensation from BGN 7.20. £9.70. This will explain what motive a provider may have when receiving compensation, subsequently for the risk to which it is secured, of 57% of the poverty threshold? This compensation hasn't been changed in many years. We're changing... minimum wage, and this minimum unemployment allowance stands at BGN 7.20. on a day for a very long time. What is it? It represents 154 BGN. a month or a whole 43.53 per cent of the future minimum wage we are planning. I'm telling you, this would disprove any self-insuring person to provide themselves with this insurance risk, and if there was any possibility, people would not be provided for unemployment. So our view, our understanding, is that this minimum daily compensation and unemployment benefit must be tied together as the maximum unemployment benefit is linked to 60% of the income on which the benefits are paid and the minimum wage must be linked to the minimum wage and become 60% of it. Mr. Minister, as you clearly say, this is a very serious step. We must be critiqued that we didn't make it last year, that we didn't take at least one step from there. But if we take 60% of the minimum wage that we are about to accept, it is BGN 10.65. We offer £9.70. Let's take the first step and then take the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 130 MPs: 48, against 73, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 6 by importer whose text is supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 81, against 30, abstention 22. The text of the importer for art. Six has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u233	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u234	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister and Dear Mr. Petkov! You must be surprised that I'm speaking on this member of the National Insurance Institute budget. However, there is something very strange about the written reasons for the budget that I have read. Without quoting numbers and numbers, it says we're down 10% on staff costs. At the same time, it says that we retain the composition of the people, the number of people who work in the NSI. I have the question: what are we going to do with these people, are we going to cut their wages? Mr. Petkov, will you handle this budget and these people's salaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 7 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: 77, against 40, abstention 22. The importer's proposal for art. Seven is accepted. Go ahead, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u237	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I propose an extension of the working hours until the agenda is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u238	What agenda do you have in mind? [[Noise, laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u239	For the week.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u240	Your offer is quite ambitious. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u241	A minor correction until 20:00 a.m. in today's
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u242	Is there a reverse offer? Please vote on the proposal made by Ms. Karayancheva to extend the working time today to 20 o'clock. Vote 127 MPs: 96 against 16, abstention 15. The proposal to extend working hours has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u243	Under art. 8 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 words "BGN 420" shall be replaced by "BGN 240." The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: 8th para. 1 is amended as follows: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the number s. s.420s. is replaced by the number s.240s. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the number "six hundred" is replaced by the number "six thousand." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." Minimum monthly amounts of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers according to the economic size of the holding referred to in Annex 2 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1242/2008 of 8 December 2008 establishing Community typology for agricultural holdings: (a) the holdings of Class I, II, III, IV - BGN 240• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) the holdings of Class V and VI• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c) holdings of Class VII to Class XIV The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u244	Before this there is a proposal from the peoples representatives Menda Stoyanova, Emil Dimitrov, Svetlana Angelova and Krasimir Karakachanov, which the Commission supports and has entered the edit.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u245	Yeah. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The following amounts of monthly social security income for 2015 shall be determined: 1. minimum monthly amount of insurance income during the calendar year of basic economic activities and qualification groups of professions pursuant to Annex No 1; 2. minimum monthly amounts of insurance income for self-insuring persons according to their taxable income for 2013 from the pursuit of the work concerned as self-insuring persons: a) up to BGN 5400 It's $420.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) from 5400,01 to 6500 BGN That's 450 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c) of 6500,01 lv. up to BGN 7500. 500 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • d) over BGN 7500 "550 BGN"• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. minimum monthly amount of insurance income for the registered farmers and tobacco producers - 300 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. maximum monthly amount of the insurance income - BGN 2600 (2) The minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for self-insuring persons who did not operate in 2013 as well as for the activities started in 2014 and 2015 is BGN 420. (3) For persons other than those referred to in art. 4, para. 3, p. 1, 2 and 4 of the Social Security Code for which the social and/or health insurance income is linked to the minimum monthly insurance income for self-insuring persons shall be taken into account. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u246	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yonchev. [[The Presidents are changing.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u247	Madam President, honourable Members! In the course of the discussions on the subject, the insurance threshold for farmers became clear that the number 240 was not accidentally invented. It is not coincidentally accepted in the previous years because apparently farmers in Bulgaria are not the same. They cannot be ranked all under one denominator. Apparently there are large, obviously there are small, obviously there are medium-sized farmers. And I understand the difficulty of classifying them in some way to accept a different rate, a different insurance threshold. I therefore propose this option by using a European regulation where quite transparent, quite objectively and with balanced, weighted criteria, farms are divided into 14 classes. Apparently, agricultural holdings with an economic size of up to 15 thousand. euros are the ones that are actually weakest. They are quite numerous and deserve the greatest protection. That is why I propose for them that we keep the insurance threshold of 240 BGN, which would be a certain safeguard measure, because otherwise we will force most of them to simply disappear from the insurance system if we raise the insurance threshold of 300 BGN, as the Commission proposes last. The second group I propose is up to 50,000. The euro insurance threshold is 360 BGN, not 300. And the highest group, that's all up from 50,000. EUR, let them pay a lot more.. 420, why not more if you offer here in the Chamber. That's my offer. I think that the criterion that we are proposing with my fellow Members is quite objective, it is used throughout the European Union to classify agricultural holdings and gives a clear assessment of who is how big, again calling for this text to be supported, because otherwise we will do, that is to say, two evils. One will be that many farmers - the smallest, the weakest - will disappear from the insurance system. Secondly, the expected budgetary effect, i.e. the effect of raising more contributions, of a larger amount in the fund will not actually be achieved. We're not gonna do anything good with one word. I call on you to support my proposal and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u248	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u249	Dear Madam President, Mr Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! I am going out to the stand to support our parliamentary group's proposal under art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 et c. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u250	Article 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u251	Article 8. I'm gonna go a little bit more with that. 3. I am a Member of Parliament from a constituency where farmers are weak, weak. I realize that, together with this bill, we, as a national representation and in parallel with this, the policies to which GERB is a carrier, including the President, have seen that we have not received with the legislation in the past term opportunities for farmers to receive support, to have opportunities to expose their products in large retail chains. The market is not yet regulated, there is no support. I have a great concern that these funds are about 16 BGN, with which, in the new proposal of the Commission, the increase of 300 BGN, for my constituency 150 BGN, are many, colleagues. Some people who had been provided until now on BGN 64,92, another BGN 16.12 means for one year about 150 BGN. And when we say that the whole group of farmers is about 75 thousand, that means some additional burdens for the weakest group for the group that we need to strengthen, give it a hand. So I think even the Commission's understanding, which it has shown to go to 300 BGN, is unacceptable to us. We maintain and appeal to the national representation to remain the number 240, i.e. 240 BGN to support each other. I particularly address the reformers who are being led farmers. I hope they'll support us. I also address groups that essentially carry their national representation and are close to these people. Therefore, Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I appeal to all of us to leave in art. 8, para. 1, t. 3 The minimum insurance for farmers 240 BGN. We're gonna make weights, we're gonna lower the group. By the way, this is a philosophy of GERB. Of the 120 they went to 240 and then I remember 100,000. farmers only went for one year in the grey sector. They've given up. Now we'll do the same thing again, which will not be useful for the insurance system.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u252	- What's the line? I won't. Dr. Ademov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u253	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We propose the minimum insurance income for farmers to be maintained at 240 BGN. Not because we are opposed to expanding the circle of insured persons, but because over the years there have been enough ambiguities about the status of farmers, about the tax base and about what Mr. Yonchev said just now. We will support Mr. Yonchev's alternative proposal, although it does not cover this problem in all its fullness. I'll tell you why we want to keep it at 240? Because, honourable Members, there is currently no single register of farmers in Bulgaria. In the Ministry of Agriculture there are three registers which are neither characterised by their sustainability nor give reliable information, including employees from revenue agencies to form the tax base on which farmers can be provided. Next, for farmers and tobacco producers there is no requirement for annual levelling of income. Then on what unified basis to provide these people, unless we accept the differentiated approach Mr. Yonchev spoke of. Next, direct payment schemes are currently not bound by registration obligations. I mean, you can get direct payment support schemes, but you don't have to be registered. That is, we cannot cover farmers in this way. Another is the problem, if you are involved, for example, under the Rural Development Programme. There's a registration obligation. You don't have an obligation to register here for direct payments. In addition, there is one text in the Social Security Code that says that insurance contributions can be supported by farmers' funds in order set by the Council of Ministers. For now, unfortunately and over the years, my request is that if you discuss this idea within the Council of Ministers, there should be such an order for determining the support of farmers and tobacco producers by means of direct payment schemes. Some of these funds if they help farmers, then things could happen. I mean, what's the situation right now? We don't have a single register, we don't have an annual income levelling on which there's an insurance base to provide. And that is why we argue that before all these problems are solved, there is no way this increase in 420 BGN, now there are other proposals to be accepted as proposals that are reasoned, which are justified, which rest on a real register, on a real basis. We have the idea of imposing a level playing field on tax-insurance entities, but I, unfortunately, do so without having objective information. That is why our proposal is that this income will remain 240 leva in the next year. If you do not accept this proposal, we confirm that we will support the proposal of Mr. Yonchev and colleagues from the Bulgarian Democratic Center, which makes sense because it is proposed on the basis of objective criteria to differentiate the tax base. Not all to pay on an amount that is randomly chosen but to pay on the real income they make on the basis of their agricultural activity. [[Applause from DPS and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u254	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova. After her, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u255	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I will try to make my speech very expert and very little political, because farmers or people who do farming are not of a separate political group to appear as defenders. I would like to start with the following statistics: in 2013 there were 259 thousand farm censuses. agricultural holdings. Of them, over 220 thousand are kept small. There are 75 thousand registered in 2014. agricultural holdings. Of them 33 thousand are self-serving. Now I want you to very well hear me.. not all registered farmers pay on 240 BGN. insurance income. Farmers who are sole traders who are registered as legal entities do not pay on 240 BGN. Over BGN 240. pay exclusively and only farmers supplied by natural persons. Of them, those who receive income from employment relationships, rents or any other kind of income are not provided at BGN 240. On insurance income 240 BGN. only farmers who are natural persons and receive no other type of income remain. These are a very small part of the insured persons. This is the most vulnerable group of farmers. I am saying this to make it clear to you why we are so demanding that this threshold be maintained. This threshold must be maintained because this year, in which you want the fiscal effect, which will be achieved by 2,5-3 million. lv. in comparison with the policies to be carried out in the next 2015-2020 when we have to implement the common agricultural policy through the tools of direct payment schemes, specific requirements and eligibility conditions are intended to be laid down for support to beneficiaries. Still this program, ladies and gentlemen, is unclear exactly how it will be. Since it is not clear why we are in a hurry in 2015 to achieve an effect of 2.5 million. BGN, decide to ruin agricultural policies at least seven years ahead? It doesn't make any sense. If you really are impartial and really want to think in the direction that Bulgarian agriculture is developing, to preserve, so that the smallest, vulnerable farmers stay to live in the areas in which they are, and to produce Bulgarian production, you should be wise to support the proposal in which at least in Budget 2015 the size of 240 BGN should be maintained. Once the Rural Development Programme has been adopted, after the introduction of the "Active Farmer" and there it is already known and to distinguish exactly what the active farmer is, then to think about what is being done in this policy. Because all political forces are pre-electionally using political gum to help small businesses. Is this how we help them when we start raising their insurance and weights? That's not how we help him. Moreover, in the main priorities set out in Minister Desislava Taneva's report, the following is written, I will quote it to you: the main priorities: ensuring acceptable standard and life for farmers, providing the necessary conditions for the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the agricultural sector, providing quality and safe food for consumers. Why am I quoting this? Because if the insurance increases, much of the farmers will go into the gray sector, where the control of what they produce will not be possible. Rural development - how we will develop them when we depopulate them in this way. When we don't help them, what do we tell them? We say to them, Dear Farmers, you have two alternatives. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, I'm done. The alternative to the Bulgarian farmer is either going to live in the city or going to live outside the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u256	- What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u257	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I absolutely agree with the colleagues who spoke before me, and everything they said is true, only that this debate, which was going on just now, would perhaps be adequate if we talked about subsidies if we were talking about tax reliefs if we were talking about stimulating business, agricultural, small, medium or large. But we, honourable Members, are looking at the Law on the Budget of the DVO. We look at the Law through which contributions are made, as a result of which they are determined and paid, pensions are received. What's going on under our law? In the current version of the Law you know that the minimum pension that can be obtained in Bulgaria is BGN 154, possibly in the Swiss rule for 2015 it will increase to BGN 157,50. In order for one person to receive this pension, he must be adequately provided. The accounts show that in order to receive this pension, if you are a woman, you must have provided yourself for at least BGN 408, if you are a man at least BGN 378. That's now. You understand that for years farmers are provided at 240 BGN, but they at least receive the minimum pension, which means that the difference they receive in excess is at the expense of all other insured persons. We must not forget that insurance, insurance is not like taxes. You pay insurance and expect to get compensation for old age or sickness, short or long term. So the philosophy of providing is to have a relationship between the amount of insurance and what you expect to get from these insurances. It is true that many social motives can be pointed out and in this direction I have made a proposal together with my colleagues, namely not for 420 BGN, but for 300 BGN. a threshold for ensuring farmers with a clear awareness that even at this social security threshold they will not be able to contribute insurance to give them at least minimum pension rights. And they'll get it back at the expense of the others. But since this minimum insurance threshold for them was held for too long at 240 BGN, now the jump is really very big and drastic. I believe that since we are responsible for so long as this issue is not resolved, we must now make his decision in at least two steps. So I propose that this year 300 BGN and next year to go to such a size to provide at least the minimum wage. These people will take it and still be dissatisfied with its size because you understand that BGN 154. It's not a pension. At the same time, colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria offer an increase in maximum insurance income, and here your arguments can also be heard. Who, honourable Members, pays the maximum insurance income? Currently it is 240, the government offers supposes 260, colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria and offer 3,000 BGN. Well, these are individuals, we're always talking about individuals. First, these are usually people who are in the light, working in the administration or working in large private companies that are in the light, because the one who is not in the light, he does not declare such income either from employment or other relationships. Secondly, these are people with high responsibilities, with high education, sometimes with two educations. Most of them are young people who choose to live in Bulgaria. I would say that the majority of these people are in the IT sector, which in the last year has a 10% growth. The only sector in the economy that has such growth, and analysts say that the potential for its development in Bulgaria is great for our children to remain here, and we want now with these texts to transfer the burden on them the burden that we have not done our job in time. I am strongly opposed to raising the maximum insurance income not only in the sizes offered by colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria and also in the size offered by the government. I think he should stay at the levels at which he is now.. 2400 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u258	- What's the line? Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u259	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mrs. Stoyanova! The idea of balancing public social security funds is obviously the right idea and the right thesis. Balance of funds is very important, only the state social security system currently has a huge deficit of 4 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. Two billion is the planned deficit, just over 2 billion passes for next year, and 2 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. are the so-called 12% with which the State participates as the main insurance provider. Now we want to balance the system and we are going to the smallest link of it the farmers. Their contribution to balancing the entire state social security system is extremely modest. We are not opposed to solving this issue, and it is the right measure to go in this direction because of the amount of insurance contributions, from the insurance base, from the expansion of the number of farmers insured depends on the storage and expansion of their insurance rights. Our thesis is before we have objective information before we have a single register of farmers that provides sustainable and clear information before we have the condition at the end of the year to declare income these people, because there is no such obligation now, we cannot resolve this problem fairly. Therefore, it is our proposal that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food first, the Council of Ministers should do their job and then move on to this measure. Not that we don't want to, but we want to have objective information on the basis of which to realize this increase in minimum insurance income.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u260	Second line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u261	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I do not agree with your thesis because what you say applies to farmers who have been such farmers for 40 years, who have been dealing with this thing for 40 years and are insured on this income. In all his life, a person is not a farmer, self-insuring on BGN 240. This also contradicts the main policies that are being carried out in the field of agriculture. There, the idea is for the little ones to evolve, to become big. In support of my thesis, the Rural Development Programme invests and throws billions of dollars in these areas how to develop them, in these people, how to increase their farms. And since he is no longer a natural person - a farmer is not provided either way on BGN 240, immediately passes to be provided on BGN 420. So don't think from a point of view as a given how for a lifetime a person is provided on these 240 levs. And he can't fill his income. If today he is a farmer over 240, tomorrow could be something else on a much larger basis for insurance and the total amount, now the mix for retirement, his threshold could be much higher than those 240 BGN. In the purest way, you're thinking, which is wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u262	We're listening to your line, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u263	Mrs. Chairman! Ms. Stoyanova, I understand your arguments completely as a budgeter who is trying to collect the maximum in the insurance fund, but I very much hoped that you would have gone to the village and met with farmers, seen how they live and how they work and know that a farmer does not receive income all year round. And there's no way he's getting revenue all year round. There is seasonality there are months in which it makes revenue, there are months in which revenue is zero and it has to take out of its pocket to provide it. This is not like the salary worker with monthly payments and so on, so this specificity must be reflected in the insurance model for farmers. I very much hoped that the Minister of Agriculture would be here and that we would hear the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on this subject. That's why I'm going back to my proposal and I invite you to support it, because it also reflects this specificity. It enables the smallest and weakest to have those who really practically have to pull out of their pocket in order to pay their insurance, to have this opportunity. Let's let the big ones who have the silos full of grain and produce from which they can sell and receive income all year round, they can also pay more insurance. However, the small farmer, who receives 3. 4. 5 months of income, in the other months is forced to actually credit, and he is the insurance system. And on top of that, what we're going to collect from the small farmer is not much of an interest in your work as a budgeter, as a person who wants to fill the treasury with revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u264	A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Yonchev, thank you for seeing me as a budgeter, but I don't want to fill the treasury at all costs, but as much as it takes for her to spend what she needs. In your proposal, you are trying to bring in some differentiation and justice, but I think it will rather make the way insurance is administered more difficult. What you are talking about is that there is seasonality there, perhaps rather should find a place in the specifics of the payment of these insurances rather than their determination. As for the fact that there are no records, Mr. Ademov, you're right. But who knows how long there won't be any more, and I don't think the presence or lack of records or information should be a reason why we shouldn't accept the increase in social security. I am glad that you share my motive that we should ultimately tie the amount of insurance to the amount of what will then be received as an overdue compensation or as a pension. In this sense, farmers also have no equalisation at the end of the year. You know that these individuals have special taxation where they are recognized for the necessary inherent costs without having to prove these costs with cost acquittal documents. If they have a leveling, Mr. Ademov, this means that we have to get each one of them to keep accounts and incomes and expenses, to collect cost documents for each of their expenses and to prove their actual income, so that they can then equalise with the advance paid. We don't exactly do it for this reason, because we would charge these people with administrative requirements for documents, for accounting, and so on. Unfortunately, in your lines I see the right things, but not relevant to what we're talking about. I believe the right decision is what the government has proposed. But despite everything, considering the specifics and what you said were people, usually not with high incomes, I think that these steps should be taken in part. Therefore, I suggest that you support my proposal to be provided at 300 BGN, as well as to take an attitude is it right for them and at the expense of others to burden that part of the Bulgarian working in the light sector in high-tech businesses, which more and more to load with insurance, and there were proposals for taxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u266	Procedure Mr. Gokov. I'm informing the MPs that at 3:00, we'll take a half hour off. If that's your offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u267	No. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to you when there are several requests for lines from this House, to seek to give the floor to more parliamentary groups and not to the same group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u268	I accept the remark. I had announced them in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u269	I now have the opportunity to make a point, but I wanted to make a specific line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u270	I accept your objection. Any other MPs? Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u271	I am really glad that the subject went where it belongs, namely the balance between the contribution and the pension rights that arise on the basis of this contribution. I hope at least everyone who is involved in the debate, if not all who are voting, we are aware that even the size of 420 BGN. A minimum for self-insuring persons, difficult at the current balance sheets of the National Insurance Institute, is very difficult to justify the minimum pension. The amount of the minimum salary calculated according to the formulas used by the Fund (s) shall result in a pension (s) significantly lower than the minimum but shall be obtained minimally. The amount was 240, of 300 BGN, would result in a pension about twice below the minimum, but the minimum is obtained. As the issue of balance and overcoming deficits in pension funds becomes important, we are increasingly taking into account the burden by which the compensation of these deficits affects the Republican budget. In fact, about twice the acceptable 3% deficit from the Republican budget, with a tendency to increase significantly annually. It is natural that overcoming deficits must be a major objective both in this year's budget of state social security and in those who follow. The conclusion that an increase in pension contributions or a very serious increase on the basis of which insurance contributions are collected will be increasingly persistent will be required. In this case, in this article we are discussing several very severe distortions of the system. One is undoubtedly linked to farmers. Because, Mr. Yonchev, the fact is that their work is seasonal, only their pension is not seasonal. We must have clarity on this matter. Since the average age is slightly above mine, I hope many people remember the amount of agricultural pensions at the end of the communist regime. It was extremely low, threateningly low for the whole society and some of the first social measures that were adopted after Bulgaria entered into a regime of parliamentary democracy and from the voice of these people something began to depend was the systematic increase in agricultural pensions, which led to the current very severe distortion of the amount of the insurance contribution to the size of the pension. We see another distortion in the opposite direction, not for benefit, but for serious harm, as a system for another year. It belongs to the sole traders, self-insured persons in the small Bulgarian cities and in the poorest parts of Bulgaria. It's a clear income of £420. These people don't make it a month, but they don't make it in any way! Accordingly, their provision on 420 leva. means that they pay a percentage of a much higher security contribution than everyone else does. Because if they make it in one month 200. 250 BGN, their work is also very seasonal. If a person maintains a stall in a small town, he does not support it when the snow falls and when the movement stops. He doesn't make an average of £420. monthly for the year, but it is required to be provided on them. This means that he either goes gray, or he goes bankrupt, or he moves out, and then we sit around and we wonder why they depopulate individual parts of the country. When we talk about the single imbalance, we need to talk about the second one. Since there are also proposals for a higher maximum insurance income, I do not see its importers making a proposal for a higher maximum pension. Because these things have to be inevitably connected. If we are going today ambitiously on the path of overcoming imbalances in the pension system, we will also talk about them at a more fragile point later, let's go straight to raise the income of farmers, raise the maximum pension, differentiate the geographical income of self-employed people.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u272	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The line is Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u273	Dear Mr. Kanev, since you have spoken about the formula, I have decided to make you this line. Let's take this option. A young farmer is doing a project under the program "Young Farmer" - three years is provided on 240 BGN because it is possibly registered as a natural person farmer. He developed his farm, after the third year he registered as a sole trader. Under the current rules, he pays on £420. It shall then be registered as a legal person paying under the rules of legal persons and their thresholds. If he becomes the manager of the legal entity his contribution is about 700 BGN. After all, on this formula, when he should retire, these 240 levs. for two years to which he was provided, how by your logic does he get from other people's contributions? Isn't there any way?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u274	Mr. Yonchev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u275	Madam Chairman, Mr. Kanev! You should not open the subject of the agricultural pensions and pensions of the people in the villages, because the last reform that seems to me has been carried out by your political power in a different kind, with a different configuration, has led to the fact that the pensions of the people in the villages are extremely low and miserable. Let us not forget this fact and not underestimate it. I am surprised that a right-thinking politician like you sees the reform and pension insurance and the collection of money as the main source of solving the problems the more we collect, the more problems we solve. The management of the funds is a better way to solve the problems, not to raise more money with more people, to borrow more money from them. Otherwise, as regards the seasonality of agricultural production, yes, they want to receive pensions each month and receive income seasonally. But you and I want to eat every day. And if we want to continue eating Bulgarian products, if we want to continue eating at a Bulgarian table, it is good to think about what we do in this Chamber and what future we give farmers. Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u276	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u277	Mrs. Ahmedova, yes, of course, every month in which someone is provided on an amount that is disproportionate to the pension rights he receives, he damages the other insured persons. Whether it's two years, whether it's five years, or it's twenty years, depends on how much he's hurting them, not whether he's hurting them. This is one of the major problems of the balance sheet in the Fund, which I said we would come back to later. They, a priori, harm a significant part of the people, and the relationship between the contribution and the pension rights received is generally very badly destroyed. By the way, is a young farmer, or is he any young person who is yet to enter the profession, here we open a next question: is it fair and correct to provide for a minimum social income for people with free professions, including farmers, during the first six months or during the first two years of their work? Most sensible European societies do not provide them because then they are at a loss. Trust me, in the first three years of my law practice, I didn't make the money on which I was insured. Of course, this moment passes, only I've been paying as a pop, and that's who's wronged. In this case, the young people who start in another sphere are damaged. Mr. Yonchev, I am very surprised by your political power. Since I appreciate the Bulgarian political history and the history of the agricultural movement, I would say our political power in your place, because we all started from the then coalition ODS. And as the CBI did not exist then, on the contrary, the ICC is the legal successor of a party that existed, participated in the government and made these useful reforms for which I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u278	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Colleagues, I would like to get back to the issue of securing farmers. The question we are asking is do we want to expand the circle of people who will be provided in agriculture, or do we want to reduce it dramatically? Why? What's the data? For 2009 the insurance was 120 BGN. - 68,000 farmers were provided. In 2010 it was 240 BGN. s 38 thousand farmers. Now it's 30,000. According to the data Mr. Kalfin provided in a written reply to me, the expectation is that as a result of the increase in the insurance threshold, the farmers to be provided are up to 25 thousand, with the revenues to be obtained in the insurance system being no more than Eight million. lv. Is that what this is about? We are talking about small farmers who are currently working and who have no chance of paying these benefits. These are people who have up to 10 acres of arable land and income in agriculture, and according to agrostatistics, which is the official in the European Union, there are no more than 9 thousand. lv. per year. Explain to me how these benefits, which even at 300 BGN, will be extremely difficult for them, given the amounts they receive seasonally. So the first question we need to answer is what we want. Are these people staying in the gray sector? With a policy that, starting today for tomorrow, decides with times increasing the minimum insurance thresholds, that is exactly what we are doing. The other question I would like to ask: why is it now extremely important to discuss the issue of small farmers? There are several reasons. First of all, you know we're in a new programming period. The new common agricultural policy pays particular attention to small farmers who work in the respective settlement and solve a number of social and demographic problems. The way the state is concerned with these settlements is related to the people who work in these settlements. The provision of insurance will create only negative consequences in these areas to continue depopulation as it is. In the speech at the first reading of the law that we discussed, I stressed that Bulgaria joined in February 2014 a resolution of the European Parliament in which it supports all measures to maintain the incomes of small farmers. I would very much like you to know when you are discussing the issue of this category of employed or the category that work in the sector................... that these are living people who, not that they do not want to be provided, they simply cannot be provided. In addition, it is very important that I stress a very important fact to receive any subsidies, farmers are registered under Regulation No 3. Registration in Regulation No 3 means that they receive absolutely no other support in the social system. They're completely excluded, so they're counting on themselves. In front of them the alternative is: registered farmers suppose very small subsidies. A subsidy is envisaged for small farmers in 2016, possibly from EUR 500 to EUR 1250. They will eventually go into insurance if they decide to really participate in the support system under the European funds. The other one is in the gray sector. It's a non-payment of insurance and never a lack of retirement age. Help the people who are now in the sector. Pension reform as you speak it and in this case the fact that they are actually provided at lower levels than the minimum pension, in this case they cannot satisfy them because they cannot and should not be categorized in the group that does not want to pay insurance and does not want to retire. We continue to argue that this was the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in 2015 the minimum insurance income to remain BGN 240. During this time to make the necessary estimates: how many farmers are; to analyse their financial situation and in 2016 to propose a package of measures to stimulate their activities accordingly to allow them to pay the insurance they deserve, against the background of the work and work they perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u280	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u281	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, just a little correction. If it was an increase of 240 to 420 BGN, then it really is about 8 million. Given that they are at 300 BGN, it is even less than BGN 2,5 - 3 million. Because of that $3 million. It's really not worth it right now to start doing this.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Second line, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u283	Colleagues, this is what this is about: are there privileged groups in the population, or are there none? If there is, at what rate do we put these imbalances in the system? All the arguments I have heard from you are very meaningful, only they relate to many other groups of the Bulgarian population. They refer to small craftsmen, they refer to the craftsmen in Roma neighborhoods to a great extent, because there are a lot of people with a profession and a hereditary profession that they do well, but whose incomes in no way allow them to be provided on BGN 420. and would be most likely tempted to provide on BGN 240. It is not wrong to allow this opportunity, but we must allow it with a corresponding reduction in pension. The question of these three million, five million, for this 8 million can be referred to any group of the population. The entire budget of state social security is formed in this way from these several million here and from these several million there. And one more thing that's not unimportant. The difficult condition in which the small farmers in Bulgaria are located a country of the European Union that is entitled to significant agricultural subsidies is not due to the Bulgarian pension system. Clearly, she has been especially gracious to them for many years. But against the backdrop of this favor, their number, as you say, is statistically decreasing. Their problem is in the state of the agricultural market, in the conditions given to them against unfair competition, in their ability to trade fairly at fair trades, but not to be a victim of purchasers, in the state subsidy policy, which could encourage them much more than encourages them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u284	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding your question about how much the contribution or income will be as a result of the change of the insurance from 240 to 420 BGN, the estimate is 8 million. From 240 to 300 I guess it won't be more than 3-4 million, since the people who are going to be provided will certainly be reduced. With regard to the severity of those working in the agricultural sector, many arguments can be put forward as to why this sector is most vulnerable. At the very least, you know it's the only factory under the open sky. I must tell you that the problems of market infrastructure are part of the whole state policy. But if you are going to fix it first, all farmers will disappear because they are currently working for themselves, working also for consumers, maybe a little bit more for themselves. They do not register as unemployed, they receive absolutely no other support system. So let us save them for Bulgaria, to work for us as consumers. We, too, are mostly consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u286	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. For speech there is the word of the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u287	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues, in art. 8, para. 1, t. 4 we actually increase the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income from 2400 to 2600 BGN. This is the first time we've done this in five years, as far as I can remember. The latest increase in maximum insurance income was changed in 2009, in my memories. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] In 2008 the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure I thank my colleagues on the left for helping me. In this regard, I would like to suggest that we maintain the maximum insurance income of BGN 2,400 if this can be considered an editorial correction. Who actually takes those high incomes? This money is taken by software specialists, doctors, people we try not to lose, to go abroad. People we should try in every way to encourage. The budget effect is depreciated, so I ask you to put my procedural proposal to the vote in art. 8, para. 1, t. BGN 4 - BGN 2600 - BGN 2400 - BGN 4 - BGN 2600 - BGN 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u288	Yes, I understand your offer. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u289	First of all, so it doesn't come out that I'm only making criticisms to the left. If we offer a lower amount of maximum insurance income, we should automatically offer a lower amount of maximum pension, because we will introduce a distortion in the other direction. Let us not enter into poverty, returned to our wealthier compatriots, among which, by virtue of the size of the MP's salary, we also fall. Not very high income of 2600 leva. Many have risen in Bulgaria in recent years precisely the maximum income and, in principle, the existence of maximum income and the existence of flat tax as a combination create a natural injustice in taxation and make it by its essence regressive in terms of the total tax-security amount of the recovery of income. So one person with 3,000, 5,000 or 8,000. lv. salary, enough people in Bulgaria already take 15 thousand. BGN, pays at the end of the month significantly less total taxes and insurance than the person with 1000 or 1500 BGN. By the way, the income of about 800 BGN is the hardest income in Bulgaria if a correct account is made. Let us not forget that, and as far as the basic seizure goes through value added tax, people with high incomes succeed and save, that is, they do not pay VAT on the entire amount of their income, which makes the taxation of their income even more aggressive. From this point of view, I think that a gradual, calm increase in maximum insurance income is reasonable and we should support what the Commission supports.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u290	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Come in for a second line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u291	Colleague Dobrev, there is no way for this to be adopted as an editorial amendment, as the revenues in the budget of the IPO have been calculated on the basis of your proposal of BGN 2600. If you are revoting on a base of 2400 BGN, you should change the revenue part of the budget of the Ministry of Economy, therefore this should also be reflected in the big state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u292	And expenses.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u293	And expenses, respectively. So there's no way this is an editorial amendment. This is money in income and in expenses, so it is not wise to offer it this way. As for your other thesis, it is not true that the maximum threshold has not been raised since 2009. Last year it was raised by 200 leva and we had placed in the 3-year forecast frame every year to grow by 200 leva. Then you played opposition, left the House and didn't participate in the adoption of the budget, so you wouldn't know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here's a third line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make a line for Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Dobrev, I think you're right. There was a lot of talk here about how we should protect the small business, the small producer, and no one thinks how to keep young people with high education from coming out of Bulgaria. I would support you for this proposal. I believe he will be put to the vote. I mean to Mr. Radan Kanev there is no problem with maximum pension, Mr. Kanev, because it is not fixed. It is fixed as a percentage of the maximum social security income, so depending on what maximum social security income we will vote here in this House, this will also be the amount of the maximum pension, without it being necessary to explicitly vote. On the other hand, what is currently offered at BGN 2600 leads to an increase of the maximum pension quite seriously. For me, it's a very large pair of scissors between the maximum pension. This is how the minimum pension is opened. There was talk of balancing the system and I think we should continue to delay the dissolution of this scissors until we really do ensure the balancing of the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u297	Thanks for the lines. I thank Mrs. Stoyanova for the support she requested. I was hoping colleagues on the right, from the Reformation bloc, would at least support this proposal, because they are still a right-wing party. I am surprised by Mr. Kanev's thesis that he must grow the maximum insurance income. I am also surprised by the statement about the maximum pension or the limit of the maximum pension, because the upper threshold in time we should not have. With regard to colleague Cornelia Nino, whether this is an editorial proposal or not, I leave it to the chair of the sitting to decide. I am not withdrawing the editorial proposal made. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u298	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy wants the floor. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I intervene, first of all, because I would like to draw attention to the fact that if this number actually changes, the revenue is also changing and the expenditure part that has already gone to the vote. But the second thing I want to say, and what I think is important, is to strengthen some arguments that we have heard from Mr. Kanev. With this system of taxation in Bulgaria, people with high income pay much less than people with low incomes. On flat tax, that's their relative income. In the case of flat tax and the limit on maximum social security income. I do not think that we will stop Bulgarian specialists from doing so to Mrs. Stoyanova, who are going abroad, for example IT specialists. All over the country and the insurance contribution, and the tax is much higher. So lower than the current insurance contributions and tax in Bulgaria there is hardly any European country because there is a shortage and demand in Bulgaria. The other day I was concerned by the IT companies allowing specialists from other countries here, as the conditions for payment are extremely advantageous and in Bulgaria they want to come to them. So I propose to keep what is proposed and what the Commission has supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u300	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. A request for a speech was made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Thank you for reminding us of something that is very important that in those developed countries that we strive for, the contribution of workers, highly educated and qualified people is much higher, but we must also remember that they are not as damaged as our highly qualified and educated people are. Just a few minutes ago, BSP colleagues offered to increase the maximum threshold for insurance, but they conveniently forgot to mention that still over 80 thousand Bulgarian citizens continue to be harmed, as they do not receive their pensions at the maximum amount of what they should receive. But today, the big debate here is whether 30 thousand people of tobacco producers should be placed on the table, a minimum insurance threshold of 300 BGN should be imposed on them, as we propose or should this threshold of 240 BGN be maintained.? Another fundamental question is also being avoided that it is a small group of 30,000 people whose defenders fail to mention that these people are practically working in the feudal order. And I ask: Is this what you are defending these people to work with tentative tools of labor from 100 years ago? Because that's the truth about these people. Is that what you support? The second point is: over 900,000 sole traders, honourable colleagues, are also individuals. However, these individuals should be registered in the first place under the Commercial Law. These 30,000 are also individuals, but they should not be registered under the Commercial Act for commercial activity. They are released within the meaning of art. 4, para. 2 of the Regulation on Cashiers. In other words, they are not obliged to register and report their sales. From this point of view, these people can never be detected what value they actually make from their production, as an ordinary sole trader is obliged, who today in his little shop with very hard work made it, did not make it 300 BGN. income that he has to feed his family, notice if he has to work this shop on a two-way work regime, he has to pay the salary on his employee's employment contract! To put it another way, I ask: Who do we put on the first floor of the people who need to run a small business? These people who, apart from providing themselves and not weighing on the system, provide at least one more and some two faces. So I believe that the correct solution today is and we have proposed it from the Patriotic Front, the minimum insurance income to be a compensation amount and it amounts to 300 BGN. I call on you to support this proposal because this is the right proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u302	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u303	- What's the line? For the first line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u304	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My reply relates to the first part of Mr. Bajraktarov's speech and relates to the discussion related to the maximum insurance income. It seems to me that the House did not pay enough attention to what preceded your speech, proposed by Mr. Dobrev and supported by Mrs. Stoyanova in her line to Mr. Dobrev. But since the topic is common, I use before the speeches are stopped, to draw attention, because the topic which affected Mr. Bajraktarov also has to do with the fact that if the maximum insurance income is not increased, this means that we should stop the steps of raising the maximum amount of the pension. Because this ceiling cannot fall, but it should gradually be ensured that it comes closer to it. Secondly, if there were to be a change in this irregular proposal, did you calculate how many million would be reduced revenues in public security? And then will you reduce the estimated costs and which pensions or other social payments are you planning to reduce? At least this will affect some of these pensions. Finally, if you allow yourself to revise at this point the proposal made by the Commission, notice that the BSP raises the question of at least not going below this threshold. This would mean both the government and especially the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Policy, because this is mainly his budget. You are putting it before the dilemma of discussing whether to remain in this government if the budget in this part is revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u305	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bajraktarov, perhaps before we talk about the topic farmers and their insurance, you should bother to find basic information that is on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and see there that there exist and work 220 thousand farmers. They are not only tobacco producers "those are vegetable producers, farmers working in the field of forestry. Henceforth, with the speculation that only tobacco producers will benefit, you are simply in a very wrong position. And second, make a difference between manufacturing and trading. The difference between the price of a producer to a final consumer in Bulgarian agriculture is increased from four to six times. Who's the victim? [[GERB lines.]] No, one is trading another is production. If you don't know, please open your books. There are these basic concepts of what agricultural production, seasonality and so on. However, the increase takes place in trade only as value, but not as production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u307	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. For the third line is the word of the people representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u308	Since, honourable Members, I have learned that the debate will be terminated, and there was something important that had to be said, it is this.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u309	Those are rumors.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u310	Many speculate about how the flat tax had severely damaged poor people. This is a favorite thesis of colleagues from BSP and especially to you, Mr. Bayraktarov, I want to address the following data. When the flat tax is introduced in 2007 because I have heard your speeches, only 499 thousand people or about 500 thousand people pay tax on the high threshold, which is then over BGN 7200. When the economy is growing, everything is fine. Half a million! And now, according to the data I received from the Ministry of Finance, the number has doubled. One million people pay a tax of more than BGN 7200. I mean, all of these. How the poorest almost didn't, Mr. Bayraktarov, pay...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u311	But the subject is insurance... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u312	It doesn't matter. ...the flat tax is a false thesis [[breathing loudly and shouting, laughing]] and therefore should not be repeated. Therefore, we need to look at the overall tax burden and the increase in social security. The problem is, it leads to nonpayment and concealment. That's the whole case. The higher the burden leads to avoiding, including, legally, insurance. And this was the proposal of colleague Delyan Dobrev in this direction, and that is the problem after all. Therefore, we must be very careful about increasing the tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u313	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Bachvarova, Mr. Stoilov! It is nice when you replicate, first of all, to get acquainted with the texts of the regulation, which I quoted, what they said and then to give qualifications to who had read the textbook and who hadn't. Out of respect only for having the title of Professor I will keep my mouth shut so I don't embarrass you. [[Radio.]] So far, I'll stop by answering your line. As far as Mr. Stoilov is concerned, your line clearly you have not listened to me carefully, because what I have said is that in fact you have confirmed my words lightly. And my words are that 80 thousand people make a very serious contribution both to the tax system and to the insurance system, but they cannot receive to date what is due to them, precisely because of § 6 para. 1 of the Social Security Code, this date of receipt and removal of the threshold of high pensions is constantly changing. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] There is no need to quote you, Mr. Ademov, I know that there is a decision of the Commission on Discrimination.................... that this text has been declared discriminatory by the Bulgarian Commission on Discrimination. These aren't my stories, these are real documents. When we raise the threshold, realizing that we will damage a huge number of people, then what is the point of protecting people who tomorrow will be a time bomb, for the simple reason that when it comes time to receive pensions, as said by the colleague, they will not receive them seasonally, but will receive them monthly. Only these people won't make any contribution to get a normal pension. From now on, you condemn them to poverty, not that they are now not poor, that is the truth. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u315	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For the procedure Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u316	My fellow Members, I think that enough has been said on this subject and that is why I propose an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u317	A reverse opinion? [[Noise and lines.]] I was going to ask if there are any other speakers, but let's vote then. I put to the vote the procedure proposed by the MP Tsvetomir Mihov to end the debate. Vote 166 MPs: 114, against 49, abstention 3. The motion to end the debate has been adopted. We're going to vote on art. 8. We begin with the proposal of the MPs Lutvi Mestan and a group which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 173 MPs: 63 against 97 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 176 MPs: 57 against 97, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We will now vote on the proposal of MP Rumen Yonchev, Hristo Todorov and Chavdar Peychev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 71, against 53, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev in art. 8, para. 1, t. 4 the number "six hundred" to be replaced by two hundred. Vote 180 MPs: 108, against 42, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Yanaki Stoilov for revoting. Looks like Mr. Stoilov didn't get a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u318	No, on the contrary, Mr President, I voted and I ask you to listen carefully to my reasoning for revoting, as the issue is not technical, it is very important. I am surprised that the majority does not support the draft budget tabled by the government in this part, because you are simultaneously reducing the revenue in the social security budget, and you are also preventing some of the people from getting an increase in their pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u319	Mr. Stoilov, you're talking to the point, go to re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u320	And tomorrow's title, I fear, of the media, will be: The Parliament voted on a budget of social security in the interests of Parliament and other senior officials. I call on you to re-vote and not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u321	I get it. [[The President shall exclude the speaker's microphones.]] Revoting procedure. They voted 167 MPs: 103, against 36, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u322	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u323	Come in for a negative vote, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u324	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I voted against this proposal not only because it was made on the move, as Adhok says, because it is a standard practice of GERB, including when adopting the state budget. Everything's pre-last there and it's changing to the last minute. I voted against it because it is not fair, it is not fair to raise farmers' contributions and to reduce MPs' contributions. I don't know if you're uncomfortable in this way to ease your own contributions "all those you voted for" are you not uncomfortable by the people of the village who can barely make ends meet, who will be forced to pay more, including the Masrafa of the Bulgarian MPs. I think it was a shameful vote of which not only the one who proposed it but also everyone who supported it should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Second negative vote, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u326	I have no right, I have spoken... [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova is coming out of the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u327	Negative vote. Colleagues, I voted against it for two reasons. The first one is because...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u328	It's out, it's out! (After consulting the information system.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u329	Colleagues, I'm taking a procedure because I can't make a negative vote because I've made my point. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Listen to me! I'm not talking about a negative vote! According to procedure, what we voted on has turned over the entire budget of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u330	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u331	Now, on your break, gather around, pull out, rework, and bring out something new.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u332	Yeah, the break...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u333	You've reduced revenue by one vote at the moment by 60 million in the DOA.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u334	Are you offering a break?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u335	This reduction must go to the big budget with the reduction, respectively you must spend 60 million. I warn you in a procedure, Mr President, that from now on, whatever text we vote under the Budget Act, it will not fit in with the big budget at all. You've broken everything and this will affect the state budget, not only do you miss 60 million since two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u337	My fellow Members, I voted against it, not to divide to the left or to the right or the less we provide, the better. I voted against it because this is how we hit trust in our pension system. How do we want to make people provide more and receive greater pensions when we constantly reduce social security income? It has to be the other way around. I'd even go ahead and make sure everyone gets the kind of salary they get so that there's an incentive to actually get an adequate pension. What did we do right now? We say, "We don't want your insurance, we don't need it in the NSI, there's enough revenue there." At the same time, we can't give people a higher pension, and that's how people say, "What's the point of providing ourselves?" I don't understand why we did this! This is really a step in the wrong direction. You have to really go towards removing all the ceilings. At least that's your opinion, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, but you have to say if you agree with what's going on here in the Chamber. Because a proposal that was really going in the right direction to increase trust in the pension system, now de facto with one vote, we have brought it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u338	I announced there'd be a break at 3:00. Holiday till 3:35. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u339	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The hearing is ongoing. [[Noise, lines, MPs take their seats in the hall.]] You guys ready to get started? The hearing is ongoing. Before its interruption, we were in a voting procedure for the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly made between first and second readings, and these proposals were voted on. A proposal has been made in plenary, reasoned and reasoned as editorial. It's in art. 8, para. 1, t. 4 for the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income instead of the proposed by the Commission BGN 2600 (BGN 2400) In essence, this is not an editorial amendment. [[crowd cheering, cheering, cheering and applause by BSP LB]] Therefore, the request for a vote was inadmissible. [[The only boo from the left and shouts: "Woo!".]] Such a hypothesis, such a procedure we had earlier today in discussing the Budget Bill of the Health Insurance Fund. Since the main text has not been voted on, but the decision adopted by the plenary reflects on the main text proposed by the Commission, and there is no other option for its annulment than to vote on its annulment, I propose, in a procedural way, that we repeal the decision, which has essentially been made on an unacceptable request, I repeat, this is not an editorial amendment. I am voting against the decision on size. Voting mode. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] They voted 122 MPs: 103, against 16, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u340	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, dear colleagues! Parliament has just voted on a procedure that does not exist either in the Bulgarian Constitution or in the parliamentary regulations. In practice, with one vote, the parliament cancels a text adopted in two readings. In practice, at the moment, you are either making a third vote on the already adopted text...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u341	There are no two readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u342	What is this procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u343	Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u344	What is this procedure in which the admissibility of its adoption is assessed in respect of a text adopted?! There's no such procedure. This vote, which Parliament has just made, is without object. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva has been taking on other people's functions lately. Only the Constitutional Court can say whether a adopted legal text is in conformity or against the Constitution, whether it is real or insignificant, not the President of the National Assembly. This vote is devoid of any meaning. If you allow yourself to reschedule a third time your decision on maximum insurance income, you will perform an unconstitutional action. I declare that we will attack him before the Constitutional Court. What you need to do and what we have advised you to do is to recalculate all the numbers in the budget this and the state budget, as well as that of the Health Insurance Fund, which you have already accepted, with the number 2400 leva adopted by the Parliament. maximum social security income. We're telling you, we're giving it to the Constitutional Court. [[strong noise and lines from GERB and BSP LB]] because in practice you will vote three times already adopted proposal of a Member of the National Assembly. You should have listened to our warnings. We warned you several times. The slip has already been made. You can't do it this way! Go count the new numbers in the budget! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Do not take unconstitutional action in plenary! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u345	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u346	Madam President, honourable Members! I really sympathize with Madam President at the moment for what she should do about how she should wash your hands and how she should wash your behaviour. And I am really surprised why it is held in this way a meeting of the National Assembly when it comes to serious matter, such as a budget, when it comes to not having mathematics in which to take from here a number and just put it somewhere, without realizing that this number is then reflected in thousands of other places, both in this private budget, and in the big budget, and everywhere. Therefore, I ask you: let us not turn the National Assembly into a circus! Madam President, a mistake has been made, unfortunately this mistake has been made, there is no way to cancel it with a third vote. There's no such procedure. [[GERB lines.]] It's affirmative, unfortunately. We may have done something stupid, but this nonsense, unfortunately, is not the only one, we've already legalized it. Sorry, that's what you did, not us. We warned you that you were doing something stupid. You legalized it. At the moment, it is a law passed on two readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u347	Stop yelling.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u348	Mrs. Karayancheva, I'm learning to yell like that from you. [[Radio.]] Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u349	You can't catch me, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u350	Mr. Tsonev, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u351	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I am making a procedure in the manner of conduct, joining the opinion expressed that it is not under the Rules of Procedure, and it was not necessary. The main thing I want to tell you is that we didn't have to rethink this text. And the experts, or the minister, who told you that it was necessary to change the budget, are wrong. In the draft budget and in the law itself, which will become a law after adoption, revenue is an estimated amount. Whether this revenue comes from increased minimum insurance or maximum insurance income, or whether it comes from the fact that between first and second reading we criminalise the evasion of the payment of insurance does not matter at all. We at the DPS voted for this text because we know that there are a lot of reservations and every year, thank God, the insurance is being refilled as a plan. And this year, there's overrun, and last year there was, and the next year there will be. There's no place to panic about the fact that 30 million would be less. There won't be any less. And, fellow Members of the BSP, there is no need for colleagues to recalculate the budget at all. I suggest that you cancel this vote, Madam President, because it really is not by the book, and it is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u352	Mr. Tsonev, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, a vote has been adopted on a proposal in plenary, which is not editorial. And that's the rule of law violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u353	Madam President, could a violation of the Rules of Procedure be corrected by a breach of the Rules of Procedure? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u354	I think the Constitutional Court will rule on it. As it became clear, you will refer to him. We continue with the vote. I shall put to the vote art. 8 in its version of the Commission report. We vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u355	With the corrections made.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u356	Any other proposals on the Commission's version?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u357	It's already been canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u358	It's not canceled. It's been voted out.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u359	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to amend art. 8. The Commission's editing of art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u360	And what about the accepted proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u361	No, the Commission's version of art. 8. The report's in front of you. [[Relations BSP LB.]] You're gonna want a vote in a minute that you didn't get a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u362	This proposal is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u363	Vote 162 MPs: for 103, against 43, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u364	Honourable Members, Madam President, should be aware that the House is currently voting on maximum insurance income within 2400 BGN, because this proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u365	You're not aware, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u366	No, you're not aware. [[Radio, applause from BSP LB.]] This proposal has already been adopted by plenary with two votes. The editorial proposals and other proposals are made first, they are voted on. Once adopted, as was done with Mr. Dobrev's proposal, by the way with your votes, the final text of the leading parliamentary committee is voted on with these proposals. So at the moment what you have done is to vote on the proposal of the committee responsible with the number 4 The maximum monthly amount of the social security income. Just let the House know what you voted for.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u367	What procedure did you want? You want a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u368	Revoting for those who do not understand what vote you vote 2400 BGN. maximum social security income.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u369	And Mr. Mikov hasn't been able to vote. Let's give him a chance. I'm putting in a re-election article. 8 in the version of the Commission, where in para. 1, t. 4 the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income is BGN 2600. for those who didn't understand. That's the re-voting. We vote. Vote 174 MPs: 104, against 63, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, the negative vote. Didn't you guys get to the point?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u370	No, I spoke in procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u371	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. You're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u372	My fellow Members, Madam President, I voted against it, not because I am voting against it in substance, but because the procedure that you are applying here is extremely wrong. Because right now we're kind of in the gypsy market where we're playing games here. [[Radio.]] Because we have once voted one number, the second time we have asked you to become aware of what you are doing, and you have confirmed that number. Now all of a sudden it turns out that you're disowning yourself. Colleagues, St. Peter is not a good example at the moment he disowned Christ. Don't you do the same. Be serious. Work like a man. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] Don't fuck with the National Assembly with crazy actions! Don't, I'm asking you very much, because people are looking at us and they're gonna laugh at us. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u373	Negative vote, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u374	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament! I voted against it only to take the floor [[crowd cheering and laughter on the left]] ,... There was no other way, folks. ...to share my thoughts. [[Radio, noise and laughter on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u375	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u376	I strongly disagree with BSP's pathos. But the truth, colleagues, most of the majority, is that you made a very big mistake and we broke our own budget. It's a good thing Mrs. Tsacheva took a break so we could fix it. Our entire group has abstained because it understands what this is all about. However, unfortunately, the majority of the two major parties, excuse the expression, I understand fatigue, but you voted in order without thinking about anything. The truth is that we are currently in an extremely complex legal case and it is no accident that your colleagues on the left hand suggest it. This is an extremely serious case. Let's have a good laugh here. As tired as we are, let's be careful what we vote, fellow Members. It's a budget.. Once a year is voted, then no more. Now things have become quite unpleasant.. experienced lawyers will explain to you why this is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u377	Mr. Yanaki Stoilov wants a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u378	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We voted against our motives were expressed even in the discussion on the substance. We believe that people with higher incomes should make a greater tax contribution and a greater contribution to health and social security. That's why we insisted, since you didn't accept our offer for 3,000 levs. maximum social security income, at least 2600, as set by the government and supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. In this case, there is an additional reason. We have most well-intentioned and constructively warned you even before the vote was taken. Why, when you are given a hand, when you have to act with at least simple thought in the Chamber, do you refuse to do so?! You yourselves have understood that the act of stubbornness cannot solve even your own problems, let alone the problems of the country and our constituents! Along with that, I also express concern about what will happen in the future. The quadruple coalition plus, which will probably rule in some new ingredients and on the topic of transferring funds from funds to social security, is probably part of this process because leading MPs participate in it, the President of the Budget Committee participates! And I propose that the two ministers be released, as they are figures or people who are engaged in other non-public activities in the process of adopting the budget! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u379	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u380	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Shine the hypocrisy of this part of the room! [[Applause to the left, shouting from BSP LB: "Eee! "]] Madam President, I ask you to make a remark to them when they make a negative vote to explain why, after offering 3,000 maximum insurance threshold, they did not vote on 2600 maximum insurance threshold! They voted against it! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And in the negative vote, they explain the procedural rules that we have already revised! Why do they explain themselves according to procedure? Explain why you are hypocrites why you did not vote BGN 2600. a security threshold?! That's your whole policy only talking, hypocritical. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u381	Dear colleagues, what we have been able to do, we have done according to art. 8. We're moving on to art. 9. We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u382	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u383	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 9 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 164 MPs: 113, against 45, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u384	Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Article 10 shall be amended as follows: The number "7.20" is replaced by the number "9.70" The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u385	Statements? I won't. I'm voting... [[BSP LB.]] Mrs. Nino, I don't see Mr. Gokov raising his hand! You're on a straight line! Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u386	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! I allow myself once again to take the floor on the same question for the unemployment benefit. We'll leave it at £7.20. I said before, I'm going to repeat it again. That's BGN 154. a month. Do you think that's the amount of compensation of BGN 154? per month, which is 40.53 per cent of the future minimum wage, in any way stimulates insured persons to do so? We want to increase confidence in the insurance system. We want to do good things for the Bulgarians, and here we are again freezing. This proposal again makes me repeat the words we have spoken since the first reading of the budget that this is a budget of freezing, of stagnation, of regression. The freeze itself in time and inflation, although it is now at some minimum levels, still there, lead to depreciation of this compensation! It's only right to keep him up and running with time. I would like to address the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I believe he is familiar with the resolution of the European Parliament of 14 January 2014 on social protection for all, including self-employed persons. What we do is contrary to the standards of the International Labour Organisation. It is contrary to this resolution! You didn't accept our proposal for a budget change. This is about 33 million. lv. It is obvious that even if we do not change the revenue of the state social security budget, by accepting this, we can fit into these revenues, which I think are underestimated. Including Mr. Tsonev, he said that more revenue would be collected in criminalization of non-compliance and the concealment of insurance. Please understand and accept our offer, which is BGN 9.70. daily for minimum unemployment benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u387	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 169 MPs: 53, against 91, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for art. 10. Vote 168 MPs: 109, against 45, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u388	Under art. 11 The proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 words for 2015 " 340 BGN" are replaced by "for 2015" from 01.01. to 30.06. - BGN 360, from 01.07. to 31.12. BGN 380 (BGN) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: Art. 11 is amended as follows: Art. 11. Determines the monetary compensation for raising a small child under art. 53, para. 1 and 2 of the Code are social insurance for 2015 in the amount of the minimum wage established for the country. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the Commission's text on art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u389	Statements? Mr. Gokov was first, then Mr. Ademov, to the right, there are no willing, Mr. Boychev, Mrs. Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u390	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In this article, with its proposal, the importer freezes the amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age at 340 BGN, as you had, by the way, frozen it for three and a half years in the previous management. It's not your policy in this direction and you're not helping demographics at all. We say that we will be socially committed to the Bulgarian people, which melts over the years and we do nothing on this issue. You will gather again to protest before the Council of Ministers the mothers. I would like to address the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and warn him that what happened on 22 October 2012 awaits him. A national protest to increase maternal and child benefit organised through social networks. Then the cities of Varna, Plovdiv, Burgas, Razgrad, Stara Zagora, Pleven, Sliven took part in this protest. Then the demands were basically the same. After three and a half years of freezing this payment, this allowance for raising a child from two to three years of age and then there were requests for an increase in child benefits for first and second children and so on. We're freezing again. Last year we raised nearly 45% of this compensation for mothers. And we made it equal to the minimum wage of 340 BGN. Our proposal is now art. 11 to sound like this: "Determining monetary compensation for raising a small child under art. 53, para. 1 and 2 of the Social Security Code for 2015 in the amount of the minimum wage established for the country. And if we want, I say again, to establish some logic in benefits, in social assistance, in pension insurance at all, in pensions, we have to introduce automation and this automation here, in this case, states that we can make this compensation for raising a child from two to three years of age with the minimum wage. I don't think it's about that much money. That's 14 million. lv. and is nothing money compared to that we, for example, on Wednesday with a very light hand gave 4 million to a private German firm, including a violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and so on. Now we squeeze here for mothers with children, for the future of Bulgaria. It may sound populist to you the statement from this tribune in this direction, but it is not. I mentioned the protest of 22 October 2012, but I will also remind you of the protest of 9 February 2013 before the Council of Ministers in Sofia. Mr. Minister, if you do not take any action in the direction of thawing these benefits, the same fate awaits you, and I think that fate is not very happy. And after 9 February 2013, when the mother protest began to increase these payments, the February events followed all those who brought down the government. I hope you will listen to my words and to the words of our parliamentary group, because we say them very benevolently from this tribune and at all speaking in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u391	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u392	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Minister, our proposal is in art. 11 after the words........................................................................................................... From 1 January to 30 July, with 360 BGN and from 1 July to 31 December... 380 BGN...................................................................................................... I know, dear Minister, that this proposal, made in this way, creates the feeling that only money support can solve the demographic problem. Obviously, that's not true. However, last year or rather, 30 million were voted in the 2013 budget for new kindergartens in large cities. However, the problem was not solved, so we propose to assist mothers in raising children when children are between one and two years old. It's about the insured mothers, notice! It's not about everyone, it's just about the mothers who are insured. If we are talking about the principle of effectiveness of social transfers, as is the case here, it is obvious that since we do not have the opportunity to accommodate all children in children's institutions, let us help them this way until we resolve the issue of childcare facilities for young children. That is why our proposal is in the way we have done it and I ask that it be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u393	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u394	Madam President, colleagues! I think we've heard the opposition's position, so I suggest we call off the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u395	The opposite opinion of Mrs. Nino.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u396	I am making a reverse proposal that the procedure not be terminated, and at least to the Members who have already spoken, we should be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u397	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. [[Noise and lines.]] The proposal is to put an end to the debate. [[Heckling]] Vote 141 MPs: 97, against 42, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Lutvi Mestan and a group which the Commission does not support. Vote 139 MPs: 45, against 78, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 149 MPs: 57 against 73, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 11. Vote 149 MPs: 95 against 39 abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u398	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Kalfin, I am doing this negative vote to you, not to the importers from GERB, because this type of policy we have seen in them during the first term. Then Mr. Djankov untied, so to speak, the social payments from the minimum wage and when it grew, they did not follow this growth. We tried to restore this injustice last year, and although the law did not oblige us, social payments followed the growth of the minimum wage. So with them it's a traditional thing, it doesn't surprise us this kind of politics, it surprises us your behavior. In addition to this payment, you have agreed to freeze 14 more social payments, meaning you are making budget savings from the weakest groups. You freeze: children with disabilities, food vouchers for workers, aid for first-graders, family aid, help with pregnancy, people with permanent disabilities, twins, mothers students, unemployment benefits. I just heard a sentence of yours, which really surprised me, and it is that during the years when maternity was increasing, it did not lead to an increase in birth rate, so this measure is pointless and it does not improve the demographic picture. This measure is not the only measure that can improve the demographic picture, there we must make a complex of measures, but I do not share your opinion that it is not the only one. From now on, I ask myself only one question, and I seek an explanation..... how can a left-thinking person like you, a man who has signed under a good left-wing program, become a right-wing hawk in a month?! [[(Sighs!) by GERB. Claps by BSP LB.)]] Power changes you so much that you become unrecognizable.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u399	Second negative vote, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u400	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! I voted against it because you have once again damaged Bulgarian mothers. Because with ease, the Council of Ministers donated some 4 million to Tsemeko, but there were no 14 million for Bulgarian mothers. Because now that the vote on this budget is over, all Bulgarian mothers will know how you of the government who voted and did not support our proposal, think about future generations, but this is not a precedent in your history, in your wise governance. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It happens all the time and will happen, but let all those who look at us are all Bulgarians and especially Bulgarian mothers...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u401	Nobody's looking at you, be sure! [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u402	Let's, let's, let's see it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u403	Guys, let's not argue about who's watching who, please. A little more serious!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u404	...to know who, how and how much he thinks about the existence and survival of Bulgarian mothers and their children, and this is you, colleagues from GERB. But you have not shown any sense in terms of this weak social group, which needs the support of government, government and parliament. Congratulations! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u405	Mr. Boychev, we're listening to your negative vote, and then Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u406	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against this decision because the plenary froze the amount of compensation for raising a child. Just now, from Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, we were called populists for our proposals to update the amount of these benefits. And if the price for them to become a fact as a policy, we are ready to bear the label that we are populists, defending Bulgarian mothers, Mr. Kalfin. [[Noise and lines.]] I want to tell you that within a year this bad government of Mr. Oresharski of 270 BGN. update the amount of compensation for raising a child of 340 BGN. That's 26%. I wish you too to succeed in achieving such growth and such successes in this policy. You missed an opportunity to provide better protection and rights to Bulgarian mothers. After what I see today in plenary, after what I see voting on your fellow Members, your presence in this office is rendered meaningless, Mr Kalfin, and even more so, the social and demographic policy portfolio you are carrying. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u407	There's a word for it, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u408	Thank you, Madam President. I will not comment on my distorted words, to my great regret, from Mrs. Nino and Mr. Boychev just now about something I have neither said nor thought about. But I'd like to tell you something else because you're addressing me personally. First of all, I am very sorry that one of you is not in my shoes, and you have had such an opportunity in this government. [[Applause from ABB.]] This is your decision. Secondly, when you tell me about last year, let's remind me of all the wonderful things that you said last year that you did for mothers cost 1 billion. 600 million deficit more than expected for all Bulgarians. [[Applause from GERB.]] A billion and six hundred million above what you predicted! If we do the same now, it'll probably be pretty irresponsible. We will increase everything, at the end of the year we will say: "There are 2 billion that cannot be covered! This happened last year, Mrs. Ninova, and you know it. [[Replication by National Representative Hasan Ademov. Applause by GERB.]] I'll tell you one more thing. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u409	Please don't call from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u410	No, I'm not gonna shut up, because these are numbers, as much as you don't like them. One more thing I'm going to tell you is that untying social payments from the minimum wage didn't start with Mr. Djankov, and when Finance Minister was Mr. Oresharski, I supported that thing back then. Why? Because if it hadn't happened, today we wouldn't have been able to think of an increase in the minimum wage, which in the three-year forecast is much higher than what you were offering. If you want to move these parameters normally, you should not for 1 leva. an increase in the minimum wage to carry billions then into the economy. And caring for mothers is really important, but not by borrowing money, not by deficit, but by what the state can produce and give them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u411	Article 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u412	Under art. Art. 12, Art. Art. 13, art. Article 14 15 the importing committee supports the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u413	Statements? I won't. We vote members with numbers from 12 to 15 inclusive. They voted 146 MPs: 90, against 38, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u414	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 1 and § 2 the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u415	I shall put to the vote the name of the division of the Member State of transit and final provisions, together with § 1 and § 2 by importer. Please vote. They voted 145 MPs: 96, 26, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u416	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Borislav Borisov: In § 3: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: In Article 101, paragraph 1 is created. 5. It's five o'clock. pension for employment or social disability pension under Part One of this Code, together with professional pension under art. 168. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 29 (c) and (d) of Regulation (EU, Art. 168. (1) As from 1 January 2015, insured persons in a professional pension fund shall be entitled to an early retirement pension in: 1. not less than 10 years of insurance service after 31 December 1999 under the conditions of first category of work and age 10 years less than their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3; 2. not less than 15 years of insurance service after 31 December 1999 under the conditions of second category of work or under the conditions of first and second categories of work and age 5 years lower than their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3. (2) The pensions under para. 1 shall be paid until the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 and cannot be obtained together with a pension for employment or a social pension for disability under Part One. (3) If the person is granted a pension for internship and age under Part One after the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, the remaining amount raised in its individual account in the occupational pension fund shall be paid once. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 31 point (b) of Paragraph 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions: Reg. 3.1. 1 is amended as follows: Until 31 December 2029 including persons who have worked 10 years under the conditions of first category of work or 15 years under the conditions of second category of work may retire if they have a sum of internships and age 94 for women and 100 for men and have not obtained the right to pension under art. 168, except for the persons referred to in art. 131, para. 2, and are: 1. over the age of 1 January 2016 47 years and 8 months for women and 52 years and 8 months for men in first category or 52 years and 8 months for women and 57 years and 8 months for men in second category; 2. from 31 December 2015 the age of t. 1 shall be increased from the first day of each calendar year by 6 months for women and men until the age of 57 for women and men in the first category of work and 62 for women and men in the second category of work. 3.2. In para. By 31 December 2014 the words........................................................................................................................... 3.3. In para. 3: (a) in a sentence, first the words............................................................................................. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 and shall be replaced by, art. 328, para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (b) A sentence second is created: "From 31 December 2015 age shall be increased from the first day of each calendar year by 6 months until 57 years of age for men and women. In § 3 t. 31 (b) in §4b of the Transitional and Final Provisions para. 5 is amended as follows: In the case of the granting of a pension under art. 168, The National Insurance Institute shall translate those transferred on the basis of § 4a, para. 1 funds from the occupational pension fund in which the person was insured as of 31 December 2010 and the contributions received to the pension fund after that date until 17 June 2011 including, on the account of the Occupational Pension Fund that gives the pension. The funds shall be transferred within 14 days of notification to the National Insurance Institute that a pension from a professional pension fund has been granted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In § 3 is created t. 20a: 20a. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 84a: Art. 84a. (1) Minors who have not been married in a civil marriage shall receive an additional monthly supplement of 1.1 per cent of their pension each year. (2) The supplement under para. 1 is at the expense of the state budget and is paid through the NSI in the order of payment of the pension. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In § 3 points 9, 25b and The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Todorova: In § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions relating to changes to the Social Security Code, the following amendments shall be made: 1. Point 9 relating to changes in art. 49, para. 1 sentence first, cancel. 2. Point 25 relating to changes in art. 101, cancel. 3. Paragraph 31d relating to the creation of § 22t shall be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: 'II. Paragraph 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall make the following amendments: 1. 9 Drops 2. A new item 17a is created: "Article 68 shall be amended as follows: "Acquiring a pension right Art. 68. (1) The right to retirement and retirement pension shall be acquired at the age of 60 years and 8 months for women and 63 years and 8 months for men and 34 years and 8 months for women and 37 years and 8 months for men. (2) In the event that persons are not entitled to a pension under para. 1, they shall be entitled to a pension at the age of 65 years and 8 months for women and men and not less than 15 years of effective insurance service. 3. A new item 17b is created: Article 2 is created. 68a: supplier pension and reduced age Art. 68a. (1) Persons who are not entitled to a pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 may retire provided that their underage and/or internship are up to 24 months from those laid down in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general (2) When granting a pension under para. 1 persons may not enjoy the right under art. 9a, para. 2. (3) The persons to whom pension under para. 1 shall not be eligible for pension under Art. 1. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and 4. A new item 17c is created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments shall be made: 4.1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The amount of the pension for internship and age shall be determined as follows: 1. The amount of pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 shall be determined by multiplying the income from which the pension is calculated by the amount formed by: percentage 1.1 per cent and from 1 January 2017. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2. The amount of the pension for insurance service and age under art. 68a is defined in the order of t. 1, such as for each underage and/or insurance internship under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 reduction is 0.4 per cent. 3. If the persons have acquired the right to pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and continue to work after the date of acquisition of the right, without being granted a pension, for each year an insurance service after that date the percentage shall be 3 and from 1 January 2012. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that there is no need for the Commission to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The percentage for each year of insurance service after the date of acquisition of the law under art. Art. 68, para. 1 shall be designated as a valid calendar insurance service without the conversion acquired after 31 December 2016. 4.2. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The amount of the pension for internship and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 shall not be less than 85 per cent of the minimum size by para. 7 and under art. 68a may not be less than 90 per cent of the minimum size by para. 7. 5. A new t. is created. 21a: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 94 is (4) The pensions under art. 68a shall be issued from the date of submission of the application. 6. A new t. is created. 25a: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 102 is created. (6) When recalculating the pensions under art. 68a in the order of para. The amount of the reduction determined in accordance with Art. 1 and 5 shall be equal to the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with art. 70, para. 1, t. 2, does not change. 7. point 25 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stefan Kenov: The following amendments and additions to the Social Security Code shall be made in § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions: "1." Article 4 establishes a new para. 2, 3 and 4 The persons referred to in paragraph 2 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1, t. 1 entering into employment under the conditions of category 1 and 2 of work after 31.12.2014 may choose to be provided for early retirement, except in occupational pension funds under Title 2 and in the Fund of Pensions of State Social Security. The selection shall be certified by a model declaration approved by the Manager of the National Insurance Institute, agreed with the Financial Supervision Commission. (3) The choice referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be final and shall not be subject to subsequent change unless otherwise provided by law. (4) The persons under para. 1 retiring under the same age and disability conditions as those insured by a professional pension fund under Title Two. 2. Article 6 shall be amended as follows: 2.1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, t. 1 (a) , (a) 17.8 per cent, and for the persons referred to in art. 69a and for workers under the conditions of the I or II category of work chosen to be provided in a professional pension fund under Title 2 of Title 2 of Title 2 of Title 20,8 per cent. For workers under the conditions of I or II category of work who opted to be insured for early retirement in the Fund, the public contribution shall be 32.8 per cent for the first category and 27.8 per cent for the second category of work; 2.2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (a) 12.8 per cent and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "15.8" per 100. For workers under the conditions of the I or II category of work chosen to be provided for early retirement in a professional pension fund under Title 2 of Title 2 of Title 15,8 per cent, and for those selected under the category "Pensions" of the Ministry of Labour, 27,8 per cent for the first category of work and 22.8 per cent for the second category of work; 2.3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 3, p. 8 (b) (b) 9,9 per cent on the account of the insurance officer and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "12.9 per cent; when persons work under the conditions of I and II category of work and have opted to be provided for early retirement in the solidarity fund, the contribution on the account of the insurance provider is 24.9 per cent for the first category of work and 19.9 per cent for the second category; 2.4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 3, p. 9 (b) 7.1 per cent at the expense of the insurer and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "10.1" per 100. When persons work under the conditions of I and II category of work and have opted to be insured for an early retirement pension in the Fund of the DEA, the contribution on the account of the insurer shall be 22.1 per cent for the first category of work and 17.1 per cent for the second category; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 sentence first, the words "24 months' shall be replaced by "18 months'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the following amendments shall be made: 4.1. In para. 1 words for their age to be dropped and the words to be added at the end of the sentence not before the age of 52; 4.2. In para. 2, 3 and 6 words for their age shall be replaced by the words for their age not earlier than the age of 52. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69a words for their age to be dropped, and at the end of the sentence to be added not earlier than the age of 52. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 113, para. 1 after the words the legal interest to be added to the plus 10 points. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127, para. The following amendment shall be made: In the case of an early retirement scheme, an early retirement pension fund must also be provided in a professional pension fund for early retirement, regardless of its age. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 168 the following amendments shall be made: ..8.1. In para. 1 the words "seventh of January 2015' are replaced by "seventh of January 2016'; 8.2. In para. 2 the words "January 1st 2015" shall be replaced by "January 1st 2016," shall be replaced by "January 1st." 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 355 is created a new para. 3: An official who has not charged, charged or authorised the payment of remuneration without the contributions due for them being paid shall be punished with a fine in the amount of the contributions not paid, but not more than BGN 20 000. 10. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 30, t. 4a to § 1, para. 1 of the Additional Provisions shall be amended as follows: 4a. Index of consumer prices within the meaning of art. 100 of Title 1 is the index of consumer prices in a small basket (IPCC), calculated by the National Insurance Institute. 13. Paragraph 4c of paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be established in the Transitional and Final Provisions. .................................................................................. (1) By 31 July 2015, persons insured in the occupational pension funds for additional compulsory pension insurance may terminate their insurance in those funds under art. 4, para. Two and three. (2) In the cases referred to in the preceding subparagraph, the declaration referred to in art. 4, para. 2 shall be completed in duplicate, one of which shall be made available to the company for additional compulsory pension insurance, the management of the occupational pension fund in which the person was provided. (3) The funds of the lots in the professional funds of the persons referred to in para. 1 shall be transferred to the Fund of the State Social Security. (4) Persons who shall enjoy rights under § 4 in 2015 shall not enjoy the right under para. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 11, 12 and 14 and does not support the proposal in the rest. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: "C § 3 in the Social Security Code (promised, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 words employed for more than five working days, or 40 hours, in one calendar month, and the comma after them shall be deleted; (bb) point 6 is repealed; (c) c. 7 the persons entrusted with the management and/or control of state and municipal enterprises under Chapter 9 of the Commercial Law, their divisions or other legal entities established by law shall be added after the words. (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4a, para. 6, p. 1 the 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 4b: Choose Guarantee Art. 4b. (1) In the event of an initial occurrence on the basis of insurance after 31 December 2014, persons born after 31 December 1959 may, within one year of the occurrence of the reason for insurance, choose to be provided once in a universal pension fund. (2) If the person does not apply for insurance in a universal pension fund within the term under para. 1, the insurance is only in the Fund with an increased security contribution of the amount of the social contribution for a universal pension fund. (3) The persons insured, the self-insuring and the persons under art. 4, para. 9 born after 31 December 1959, which are provided in a universal pension fund, can only be chosen once to be provided in the Fund with an increased security contribution of the amount of the social contribution for a universal pension fund. (4) The provision of persons by the order of para. 1 and para. 3 occurs from the first number of the month following the month of selection. Until that date, the faces under para. 1 shall be subject to compulsory insurance in the Fund with an increased security contribution of the amount of the social contribution for a universal pension fund. (5) The order and manner of choice under para. 3 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The guarantor shall be obliged at the request of the insured person, his representative and/or the officials of art. 40, para. Art. 3, Art. 54g, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 98, para. 1 issue free internship and insurance income documents, as well as certify facts and circumstances related to them within 14 days of the request. (b) A new para shall be created. 11: The documents referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA In cases where the business of a commercial company where the sole owner of the capital is the State or a municipality and the processing and transmission of the documents is not possible at the expense of the company, the funds shall be provided by the ministry or municipality exercising the rights of the sole owner of the capital. c) the current para. 11, 12 and 13 become respectively. 12, 13 and 14. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) a new t is created. 4. "4." for the Fund "Pensions" for persons governed by art. 4b: (a) 17.8 per cent and for workers under the conditions of I or II category of work and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "20.8 per cent; b) 40,8 per cent for the persons referred to in art. 69; (bb) Previously on "T." 4, 5 and 6 are respectively t. 5.6 and 7; (b) in para. 8 sentence 2 after the word "instructions' is added "in the amount of the Fund's total sickness and disability' for self-insuring persons who have chosen to be provided in this Fund; (c) in paragraph 10, t. 1 the (d) in para. 11 the words s and 2s are deleted; (e) the creation of para. 15: The maximum social security income for the sum of working hours for more than one month shall be equal to the sum of the maximum social security income for the period for which the aggregated accounting of working hours has been established. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the (b) in para. 8 after the word "Securers" is added and self-serving persons who have chosen to be provided for general illness and disability. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1, t. 1 and 5 words. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 2, p. 5 commas after the word "books" and the words "paying papers" shall be deleted. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 5, t. 11 after the words the social security is added under conditions and in order determined by the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 is created t. 12: ..12. determine by decision the contractors of the prevention and rehabilitation activity for the calendar year concerned; the decision is not subject to appeal. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The members of the Supervisory Board shall not receive remuneration for their participation in board meetings. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 para. 4 is amended as The official referred to in paragraph 4 shall be the official of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3 issue an order for suspension of the procedure for granting or paying the benefits of temporary incapacity, occupational accident or occupational disease, work-building, pregnancy and birth and child rearing where: 1. are the contested acts of the bodies of medical expertise; 2. evidence which may lead to the issuing of an order for refusal or termination of the payment of the compensation is provided; 3. no data are provided on the issued hospital sheets and decisions on their appeal in the register under art. 33, para. 5, t. 12. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 sentence first, the words "18 months' shall be replaced by "24 months'. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54a, para. 1, t. 3 words under art. This code or the legislation of another State shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................................................................... 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54d, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 222, para. 1 of the Labour Code, Art. 106, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 107, para. 3 of the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 58, para. 3 of the Higher Education Act is replaced by a normal act. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, t. 1 the words............................................................................. 4s. are replaced by.. under this code or the law of another (b) paragraph 2 is repealed; (c) in para. 3 the words "up to 7 days' shall be replaced by "up to 7 working days'. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3 after the words "early retirement pension" is added to the Republic of Bulgaria, or old age pension in another country. (b) paragraph 5 is repealed. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54z, para. 1 the 18. In Chapter 4, Section IV is created art. 54 m: Recalculation of monetary benefits for temporary incapacity, labour development, pregnancy and childbirth and adoption of a child from 2 to 5 years of age Art. 54 meters. (1) The monetary benefits and benefits paid to the insured persons shall be revalued on the basis of the data referred to in art. 5, para. 4 t. 1 to 30 June of the year following the year to which they relate. Where cash benefits and benefits are paid in amounts less than those due, the difference shall be paid within the period referred to in the first sentence. (2) The monetary benefits and benefits paid to the self-insuring persons for the previous calendar year shall be automatically revalued by 30 June of the current year on the basis of the final insurance income determined pursuant to art. 6, para. 8. Where cash benefits and benefits are paid in amounts less than those due, the difference shall be paid within the period referred to in the first sentence. Benefits paid in excess of the amount due shall be reimbursed by self-insuring persons. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 2 after the word "Course', the temporary inability to work is added. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 t. 3 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words "al." 1, 2................................................................................................... the following (b) in para. 4 the 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) A new para shall be created. 2: One third of the internship under para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 4 must be relevant. (b) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it after the words one year the actual one is added; c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75, para. 2 everywhere after the 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 1 after the words as well as above this age, a comma is placed and added if they are studying and studying. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 94 Two 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95, para. The third sentence is replaced by the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. The second sentence of the fifth sentence is amended as follows: "If the pension is subject to claims under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code and the Civil Procedure Code, claims are collected in order: maintenance obligations, amounts wrongly paid for pensions, cash benefits and aid, other public claims and private claims.' (b) in para. 5 the words "the date of disability and the duration of the disability' shall be replaced by "the causal link', "the date of disability', "the period of disability' and "the period of foreign assistance'; (c) in para. 6 the words "Administrative Court of Justice" (Sofia) are replaced by the corresponding administrative court (s); (d) in para. 8 after the words more than 50 per cent, a comma is placed and the social disability pension is added is determined in the amount of art. 90a, para. 2 at a fixed percentage of permanently reduced performance more than 71 per cent. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: If the percentage referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is equal to or greater than the percentage referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, it shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 1 is a negative number, pensions are not 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, t. 4a after the words the social pension for old age is placed comma and a social pension for disability is added; (b) in para. the third sentence of the second sentence is deleted; 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114, para. 2 after the words. Art. 54e (c) is added. 54m, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115, para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 para. 4 is amended as The pension arrangements awarded under international contracts for persons with permanent address abroad, as well as the orders under art. 98, para. 2 for the same persons, may be appealed to the governor of the National Insurance Institute within three months, respectively, for the orders under art. 98, para. Within 14 days of receipt of this information, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. The decision shall be drawn up within the time limit and in the order of para. 3. 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 137, para. 4 and (b) shall be deleted and finally added to the list of persons who are insured in the Fund in accordance with art. 4b (s) and 4b (s) and 4b (s) and 4b (s) and 4b (s) and 4b (s) and 4b (s) and 4b (s) and 4b (s) respectively; (b) in para. 2 a point shall be placed after the word "supplied' and the text to the end shall be deleted; (c) the creation of para. 3: The insurance contract shall be terminated from the first day of the month following the month of the election if the person has chosen to be provided only in the Fund. 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125, para. 1, t. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of persons governed by Art. 1. 4b in the Pension Fund. 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of persons governed by Art. 1. 4b in the Pension Fund; (b) in para. 3 after the words s January 1, 1960, the period during which they were provided in a universal pension fund shall be added to the period during which they were provided; (c) the creation of para. 6, 7 and 8: The funds from the individual account in a universal pension fund of the person chosen to be provided in accordance with art. 4b in the Pension Fund shall be transferred to the Pension Fund of the State Social Security within 6 months from the date on which the person made the choice. The request to translate the funds is made by the National Insurance Institute. (7) In determining the amount of the pension of the person chosen to be provided according to the order of art. 4b in the Fund of Pensions, the individual coefficient of art. 70 shall not be reduced by order of para. 3. (8) The order and method of translating the amounts under para. 6 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. 37. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3 the words "three months' shall be replaced by "one year'; (b) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The persons who did not hold a universal pension fund within the term of para. 3 shall be provided in the Fund of State Social Security. 38. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'; (b) in para. 2 the words "same' shall be replaced by "supplied'. 39. In § 1, para. 1 of the Additional Provisions: (a) To be created t. 4a: 4a. The consumer price index under art. 100 is the index applied when drawing up the state budget and the state social security budget for the relevant calendar year. (b) To be created t. 12: ..12. "Actual service' is the actual service time, the time during which the person worked on another service and was necessarily insured for disability, old age and death, as well as the time during which the person was subject to compulsory insurance on his own account and paid the due contributions. 40. In the Transitional and Final Provisions: (a) in § 4 all over the words the year 2014 shall be replaced by the year 2015 and the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by (b) in § 4b: (aa) in para. 5 all over the word "2014" shall be replaced by "2015" and the words "2015" shall be replaced by "2016" and the words "2015" shall be replaced by "2016." (bb) in para. 6 the words '2014' shall be replaced by '2015' and '2015' shall be replaced by '2016'; (c) in § 6b: (aa) The current text becomes para. 1; (bb) The creation of para. 2: In 2015 the right to a pension for internship and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 shall be acquired at the age of 60 years and 8 months for women and 63 years and 8 months for men and 35 years for women and 38 years for men and the right to pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 shall be acquired at the age of 65 years and 8 months for women and men and not less than 15 years of actual insurance service. (d) Paragraph 22c and § 22t shall be inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The pensions granted with a starting date until 31 December 2014 under art. 82, para. 1 to persons who have been disabled until 18, until the age of 26, respectively, shall continue to be paid up to their specified time limits. § 22. Social pensions for disability granted with an initial date until 31 December 2014 and paid on the basis of the deleted sentence second of art. 101, para. 3a shall continue to be obtained at their fixed date until the expiry date for which they have been granted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u417	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. To speak, Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Because of the fact that Prof. Borisov is absent for health reasons, I withdraw the proposal not because we do not support him, on the contrary, we support him, but as the general opinion and consensus on creating a form with which, within three months, to build the overall concept of the pension strategy in the future, the system, the reform of the system, then at the right time we will re-submit this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u419	Thank you, Mrs. Yanakieva. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech is the word of the people representative Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u420	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The biggest problem perhaps with this budget is the pension reform that is being proposed within the framework of first and second readings. We have proposed in terms of professional pension funds something that the government has also proposed for universal pension funds, but we distinguish ourselves from the fact that, at least in the way of spelling, it is evident that there is free will. We did not find support and consensus on our proposals, although in the case of professional pension funds in terms of I and II category really do have a problem, unlike the less ill problem for universal pension funds. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a process in which all countries do not participate, do not consult with the opposition, no part of the employers are called, only one employers' organisation is used. On this basis, I would like to withdraw my proposals, which are regarding pension reform, with regard to the entire insurance system. Mr. Chairman, may I withdraw them now?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u421	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u422	) (a.k.a. 1, t. 2, p. 4 t. 5, t. 7 and so on. 13. With regard to the proposed proposals, I ask you to accept the return of the model for calculating maternity on the basis of 18 months and to postpone the time limits under § 4. My request to the ruling coalition is as follows. I really appeal to you: gather all the political parties in this Parliament, make a real round table, invite all employers' organizations, invite all trade union organizations, invite pension unions. Let us withdraw our proposals that concern the pension system today. Three months isn't that long. There is a delay in terms of professional funds. Let us, within 3 months, if not 6 months, draw up a complete system. Right now, our pension system looks like a bag of hundreds of patches. The Social Security Code, too. Let's do something that has a whole concept, not change text by text. We can't share these things with social pensions, minimal, maximum, reformers talk about social pension. If it's calculated with a formula, why do we need a maximum pension? Let's stimulate people to pay on their real incomes to get some real payments eventually at the end of their lives! That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u423	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. The next person to sign up for a speech is National Representative Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u424	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm glad I get the floor before the main intrigue of this day, so that my ones stand out, be heard and not plunged into debate. I demand that the proposals for an increase in the period on which maternity is calculated and that a quarter of social pension for disabled persons should be dropped, as these measures are proposed mainly because there are numerous abuses. But it is a problem of the system, and it is not a problem of the people, and it is not for the upright and conscientious to suffer at the expense of those who are not correct. If we increase the period from 18 months to 24 to calculate maternal, we actually offer an a priori anti-emographic policy. This is not just the promotion of the tridette model. That doesn't even encourage a child model. In fact, mothers who have learned and have a small work experience will suffer in this way, or young people who have often changed jobs because of the unsustainable and dynamic labour market and because there were pauses between this and when they were on the labour market, their compensation will be calculated on the basis of minimum wage. In addition, for the last 7 years of 2008 the period for which maternity is calculated has changed for the fifth time. This leads to instability and instability in this sector. In fact, we at ABB are aware that there are many loopholes and that many abuses are being made both with a fictitious internship of insurance or with an increased income of insurance, but preventative measures can be taken against it. For example, mothers may show bank statements to prove that they actually received this income, not a fictitious one. The same applies to disability pensions. Here again, the problem is that there are many abuses, but again it is because of a breach in the system and because of problems that have accumulated over the years. It is more important to take preventive measures. A new TELK regulation can be considered, since almost everyone can be placed under the old one. There may be a discussion with the TelK doctors whether the only treaty they can work on is in such a committee, as they work under heavy conditions with low wages and therefore make moral compromises. The NELK's powers may be extended to have greater scope than work and to see the arbitration that they show. It can also update the list of diseases that grant disability, remove the mechanical charge of the disability rate and so on. In his election programme, the mandater says he will make an audit of this system, but experts say it will be very difficult. In fact, the impact of this measure will not fall on those who are caught or pensioners who will in the future be certified as disabled and receive this allowance, but young people who are active at work and who lose their jobs. Therefore, our request is that this social pension remain until it can be compensated with social assistance from the Agency. This can happen when this Agency acquires such capacity with human resources and when the Single Information System is introduced and when it is financially supported. In both cases, a front is opened against socially vulnerable groups, such as mothers and invalids, and the budget burden will total 14 million. lv. I know that the multiplicity of several such millions opens a billion-dollar deficit, but I still think it is not fair and purely imagery for the government to give such a sign that it opens a front against the most vulnerable and the poorest. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ABB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u425	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Next to speak, Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u426	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! I would like to draw your attention before the main intrigue, as the lady before me said, on an extremely ill social issue which concerns a category of Bulgarian citizens who have suffered both in socialism and now in capitalism. I am talking about about about 100,000 Bulgarian citizens who paid the so-called property tax in the period 1952. I propose art. 84 to read this: The non-civilly married pennies receive an additional monthly supplement of 1.1 per cent of their pension for each year. I suggest the supplement by para. 1 be at the expense of the state budget and paid through the National Insurance Institute in the order of payment of the pension. I immediately specify that we are talking about a category of about 100,000 Bulgarian citizens and this will cost the budget no more than 9 million per month. lv. Do you think that 9 million is a great burden on the budget when it is necessary to give justice to these sufferers of the Bulgarian transition, who in socialism, as I said, are also victims of capitalism? Let me say that I speak on behalf of a Civil Initiative Committee for the Protection of Pensioners who have paid bachelor tax. We have the following proposal and, above all, motivation for this proposal. We believe that the bachelor tax on singles is not an incentive for those who have not married, and for another category, especially the victim of family, but without children, we believe that this is extremely unfair, it was not an incentive, it was an administrative and state racketeering against them during socialism. Moreover, in the Constitution it was written, and it is written that her personal family life is inviolable, and essentially the bachelor tax then violated the basic law of the state. Let me point out that the bachelor tax is equal to and higher than the flat tax, which is 10% depending on age. For those of you who do not know, but for those of you who have forgotten and lived at that time, to recall. Back then, before 1989, citizens up to 30 years of age paid 5% bachelor tax, citizens from 30 to 35 years of age paid 10% bachelor tax, and citizens from 35 to 55 years of age paid an impressive 15% bachelor tax. I repeat once again: this discriminatory measure affected mostly the family, which, however, was not their fault could not have children. [[Noise.]] Let me point out, in order to better argue that the former head of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Yordan Christkov.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I turn to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as I have received dozens of signatures, precisely from the so-called regions of the Republic of Ivan Shishmanovo, the municipality of Testament, Razgrad and dozens of other settlements in which your constituents, Mr. Ademov, Mr. Mestan, are asking, insisting, begging you to support this proposal, which I am bringing to the moment and which will really give social justice. Something very important, to repeat once again, no one at the moment has managed for 25 years, did not want to think of the lonely people who worked wholeheartedly for 35 years, whether everything about this country, after which 20 years they abused them during the time of socialism with this so-called energy tax. Did you know that currently in Bulgaria there are about 270 thousand Bulgarian couples who have reproductive problems, which by the way makes 540 thousand. Souls? Does that mean they'll be punished with 10% income tax, and when they get old, they retire, we'll forget they exist. Such a discriminatory measure exists at the moment and in some European countries, which I do not want to give you in any way ideas in this regard, especially to the right-wing ones in this Chamber, which are known for their antisocial behaviour and thinking. [[Noise and lines.]] I will conclude with something very important, to see what is the example in a country like Belgium, the Kingdom of Belgium, how it takes care of lonely people, for people who do not have children who are lonely and have not entered into a civil marriage. In Belgium, the average pension of unmarried men is 800 euros and of family 700 euros. [[Sighs: ♪ The Time! ♪]] Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u427	Time's up, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u428	I am saying this on behalf of the Citizens' Committee. people, for the protection of pensioners who paid bachelor tax. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u429	- What's the line? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] It's a long list, I wrote you down, but it's a long list. Then Mr. Georgi Gokov, after him to prepare Mr. Kanev, because Mr. Gechev and Popov are from the same group. [[Noise and lines.]] I write and I take turns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u430	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! With this budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the State Social Security, the wicked practice continues to make changes to the country's basic laws with the Transitional and Final Provisions. I will tell you which laws we are changing with the IPO's budget with the Transitional and Final Provisions. These are the Code of Social Security, the Law on Health, the Penal Code, the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, the Law on Establishment of Labour and Judicial Internship, the Law on Health Insurance. I suppose I'm also missing some of the laws that we're changing through the transitional and final provisions. I know we're doing the last-minute budget because of the extraordinary circumstances, but this should not become a practice and act this way. Instead, it should be done with separate legislative initiatives, which will enable them to be dealt with in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation when it comes to the social sphere and thus form a public attitude towards them. I want to give you an example. We have submitted a number of drafts from our group, and I would like to mention to you the one concerning the amendment of § 4 of the Social Security Code, which we have submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the established order and expected to be reviewed before the budget. He was stuck somewhere in the corner, and now suddenly appears in the Transitional and Final Regulations a change in the same direction that we propose, but the public debate on this case did not take place. I will read to you our proposals, which are really about changing legislation, in this case in the Social Security Code, but we have made them in parallel with this as legislative initiatives and we have introduced them into the National Assembly. First, our proposal is to drop the t. 9. Here it is that the importer recovers increases in your previous management period from which the monetary compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is calculated, from 18 to 24 months. I've had a few chances to say this is pointless. Unless this aims to reduce the amount of benefits paid to mothers, which is an average of BGN 12. a month for each mother.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u431	Colleagues, there's a very big noise in the room, there's no word from the speaking MP. [[Noise and lines.]] GEORGI GYOKOV: We violate the basic principle of insurance, which is to compensate for the loss of employment income at the time of the occurrence of the insurance risk. There is no logic and justice to go back two years and the financial effect on the revenue side will be minimal. We calculated it, it's about 6 million. lv. and again I will have to say that it is absolutely nothing money compared to the lightly donated to the vote in parliament last Wednesday 4 million. lv. For a private German company, a company. I don't want to suspect you doing this thing because it was part of the previous government's social package. Either way, it is a fact and it is about some money of the order of 6 million, for which it is not worth creating social tensions in this direction. Then we propose changes with two new points. With the first goal of freezing age and internship. I will not speak long and wide on this proposal. I will just mention that for the age clearly the mind prevailed and for this year was frozen, and the condition was that we would reach a stable, sustainable pension model by 31 March and apply it in the future. I would just like to draw attention to the difference between our proposal and the importer's proposal. The freezing of age is a fact, but it rises by four months internship. So the joy is, like, half, like... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thanks, I'm graduating. It will not even be half, as many of the Bulgarians have a retirement age but do not have the required work experience and with this unemployment it is becoming harder and harder to recruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u432	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u433	Colleagues, it is unnecessary to say that my statement is on the proposed article. 4b of the Social Security Code. I will start with the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, and we will unanimously vote against the proposed text. From then on, I will make a personal point of view because I believe that on this subject everyone with his voice and with his arguments takes a very serious personal responsibility and it is important that each of us thinks and what he is doing at this time for the future of the majority, the ruling coalition and the state. According to the procedure for inserting this text in plenary, there have been enough opinions, so I will not go further. Enough questions have been asked and not enough answers have been given. I think it's pretty clear on that point, except for one little detail. It is: where in the budget of state social security is reflected the effect of this change? Because there is no order, no number, no sign. Because no one knows what the effect of this change on the budget will be. He's completely unpredictable. This reminds me a little bit of the confuse we just experienced with the maximum insurance income, only it's a little more serious and there won't be a formal reason to run away after we vote. All the time that it was no secret to anyone that we negotiated the fate of this text, the importers wanted a debate on the substance and not on the procedure. Let there be a debate on the substance of the text, although it in 15 minutes, half an hour or an hour will have to replace a two-year debate that was needed in order to adopt the pension reform in its current form and to establish the 15-year pension model that we currently have and which we are preparing in a few minutes to cancel. Let's cut to the chase. Do we have essentially calculations of the effect of demographic change in the structure of the Bulgarian population after 30 years when we assume that the capital principle of personal contributions may not be mandatory? Because I know what calculations there were in 1998 and 2000 to see quite clearly that if there is no mandatory capital pillar, the people of my and all younger generations cannot rely on any serious pensions because of the inverted demographic pyramid of Bulgaria. Born in the 1970s we are baby boom, we are the largest Bulgarian generation. Those who will import when we retire are the smallest Bulgarian generations in history, unless they come smaller. Are there calculations for the immediate effects on Bulgaria's financial system of this measure? I answer you right away. There are no calculations, because if there were such calculations, there would be also the effect in the budget. But I won't! Five hundred and sixty million leva are all the cash assets of the pension companies. If more people from you withdraw their accounts, in addition to the fact that these 560 million will be a direct hit on the banking system, there will also be a further effect of a hit-and-run sale of other assets. Have these effects been calculated? Has the overall effect on individual insured persons been calculated by the distortion of the balance sheet at the National Insurance Institute that we spoke about just now? Did we carefully look at Hungary's bitter experience of such a measure? In two and a half years the money Orban relied on for decades to balance the pension system, and after two and a half years the problem is the same. But let's go through, and that's it, the elephant in the room. We all know very well that the problem is the majority that will stand behind this Bill after it has not been passed by the rules of our coalition and will not receive support from the coalition partners. The question lies in the room: who will support the bill, except who submitted it? Who put this majority together? Which coffee was negotiated to make it possible? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] When did you get drunk? [[GERB lines]] This coffee? No, it's not easy! Nor the fact that you have used, ladies and gentlemen of importers, the absence of the Prime Minister from plenary, his absence from Bulgaria, that is, the only option to reach a reasonable consensus is deliberately avoided by you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u434	Mrs. Maya Manolova, first line. You have a statement, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ermenkov, second line if there are no other parliamentary groups. We'll wait to see if there's any of the other groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u435	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Kanev, you are not quite right that there will be chaos in the state after the adoption of these texts, as of course they are not in line and their effect is not calculated in the numbers of the state budget. I'll tell you why you're wrong. Because you may not have paid attention, as well as the plenary, as well as the majority of GERB, but this morning there is an honest statement that these texts will either receive a presidential veto or be sent to the Constitutional Court. I did not believe that it would come to this from the parliamentary tribune to quote statements by President Rosen Plevneliev, but he says clearly that the changes in pension contributions and private pension funds represent a serious change in the pension system model; that they should be accompanied by an analysis of the expected results of the implementation, including the financial ones under the Law on Regulatory Acts; that it is necessary to assess the financial consequence of the change of the model for insured persons, as well as the consequences for the National Insurance Institute, for pension insurance companies and for the capital market of Bulgaria. Translated in other words, he says that since the requirements of the Law on Laws are violated the laws to be considered in two readings and to assess their financial effect, after adopting these texts in violation of the Constitution there will be either a presidential veto or a Constitutional Court. In my opinion, the question now stands is whether the ruling majority will gather the 121 votes it needs to reaffirm these texts, how many attacks will this budget receive before the Constitutional Court, and how will this affect the state's development in the next calendar year? I'm sorry, it's not an ordinary law, it's the budget of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u436	Time's up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u437	When you displace numbers and take suggestions with an obscure and unsuspected effect, the most you can achieve is chaos.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u438	Is there a second line from the other groups? No. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u439	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Kanev, you have very rightly mentioned the problems that exist and may arise. You may have missed, but as you can see, this is not about ordinary law. It is not a coincidence that it is called the Code of Social Security, rather than the Social Insurance Act, which gives another burden to the legal act, and it cannot be replaced just like that by coffee, on a knee or in any other way at the last moment. I would like to ask you, did you specifically miss at your exhibition, or did you simply refrain from saying that, among other things, such a hasty decision could result in the sanitization of all sins and crimes made by pension funds, collecting money and spending it not for its purpose, and by bringing them into the common hole, thus losing track? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u440	It's not like that, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u441	Third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u442	Thank you, Madam President. It's a very short line. Dear colleague Kanev, you seem to have neglected to say, it is obvious that the majority and the president are clearly behind different pension funds. You can see it. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u443	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u444	I didn't get the last line, I admit it. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] On the previous line, at this time and at this vote we cannot talk at all about where the majority stands, because it is obvious that on this key issue the majority stands in many different places and with many different arguments. Here, behind this proposal, let me not use the word "criminal way" through the back door of the Chamber, there is another, different majority. Ms. Manolova, the fact is that the arguments that we heard from part of the majority in the Bulgarian Parliament and which correspond to the spirit of the programme declaration of the ruling majority and the government were shared by President Plevneliev. I think we owe him a great deal of gratitude because it deprives us of the joy of listening to a public flood of lobbying accusations that we have heard in private conversations. Thank God no one will accuse the Bulgarian head of state of lobbying. [[(Shouting: ……]] Neither lobbying motivates us, nor do we motivate the protests of the Bulgarian citizens "This thing must be quite clear." There is lobbying in our position and this is the strong lobbying in favor of our and subsequent generations who will not see a pension unless an effective capital element is retained and even at the next stage of our development the capital element in the pension system is strengthened. So there is such lobbying and there will be in the future. Since I have heard a lot about the influence that private pension funds have exercised on our decision, and many of our colleagues have been dissuaded to share our position, as it was motivated by the pension funds, I want to tell you that it is a fact that I have received something from the private pension funds in Bulgaria today. I think I'm not the only one in this room. [[Laughter, excitement, lines: How much?!]] I hope they all confess! [[Radio.]] A Christmas card, which I thank them for. I would support them without a Christmas card, because we support the funds and keep them under very strict control. We support the members of the funds within the meaning of Bulgarian legislation, that is, the money of Bulgarian citizens born after 1960. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u445	Colleagues, there's a lot of people who signed up for speeches. We're taking turns with the parliamentary groups. [[The National Representative Rumen Gechev wants the floor.]] Mr. Gechev, Mr. Philip Popov and Mr. Dragomir Stoynev from your group have also signed up. Okay, from your group, you're okay, but there are other groups. Now the word is Mr. Lachezar Ivanov from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u446	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Too much tension is generated on the occasion of the proposal for a choice between the National Insurance Institute and private pension funds. Colleagues, the basic principles of private pension funds are: reliability, liquidity, profitability and diversification for activities in the interests of insured persons. In a brief review of the estimates of the Financial Supervision Commission, we will see how effectively they work for people, and I will not comment on the reports of the C.F.R.S. for 2012, where pension companies have collected 300 million. lv. fees and commissions, and have led to negative real income or the impoverishment of insured persons by 4% on an annual basis. The two largest companies are sanctioned, which shows a lack of care for insured persons. But to get back to the tensions in society, why is it generated, for whom and for whom are these changes not acceptable? Who are we looking after here, in this House, for the insured persons, for the capital, for the security and future of the pension reform or for the personal interest fee of a small circle of people?! I turn to you and ask: when a person has a choice, whether an action has been decided, or some others prejudge it, namely the choice of a private fund or the NSI. We have an absolutely democratic choice of each person's personal choice to keep or open his own account in a private pension fund. It's speculated that once you see it, they want to nationalize private pension funds and their capital. How did you know that, or how did you see that coming? I can't give that explanation. Colleagues, this is all going through a choice. The choice is the most important thing. Does anyone who protects the preservation of the current status quo know the financial result? I believe that is what no one here can say. Where to or maybe there are many rotten apples in the baskets of pension funds and we start talking about lightning changes with unpredictable financial consequences. What, coworkers?! No one can answer that either. I'm going back to the fact that we are here protecting the interest of the people who are waiting for pensions, decent pensions. So, as you recall, we created the second and third pillars. Where were you when in the years pension funds organized golf tournaments, regattas and so on? Now that we tell people the truth and anyone can make, notice, an informed decision, a tension is created. Why is this tension being created? Why? The time is not 2001 when employers made decisions for people. It's 2014 now, don't we want transparency, publicity, public cleansing? Yes, perhaps our partners do not approve of the way this is happening, for which I apologize, but the goal is higher, higher... to maintain stability and objectivity in pension funds, as well as the availability of capital and their liquidity.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u447	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u448	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have repeatedly asked the question: "Did you know?" The truth is that we do not know. The truth is, we didn't have time to know. We didn't get any decent analysis, and in the end, behind nice, loud and good wishes, we get something that we need to decide without the necessary information. So, if you know, please explain to us if you have time in the backrest time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u449	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u450	Dear colleagues, Mr. Veselinov! I want to answer this way: how can something be denied before it happens? This one, first. Secondly, here, as I stressed very thick, we have a democratic choice. We have a choice in which every citizen can choose where to stay and where to go for his pension money. So in this case, I think that the attention has been very good for us to really try in this National Assembly, to optimize pension fund legislation, because, for future colleagues, since 2001, there have been absolutely no adjustments or changes to the legislative framework, which I think we are obliged to do when we do a thorough analysis. But even before the action has taken place to direct the attention of the public, of the people, of us to the pension funds, of how they actually protect the interests of the people, we are in a hurry to deny all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u451	Professor Stanilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u452	I'm just going out to pay attention to two moments of the issues being discussed. The first is for the extra funds. We believe that it is also democratic, and it is right for the additional funds to be both state and private and citizens to have a choice: the NSI must and the additional funds to be public and private. And this, honourable colleagues from the right sector, from the Reformation Block, is the true right-wing conservative expression of such a philosophy. Because otherwise the Bulgarian cannot be obliged to go to an additional private fund and to an additional state fund. Private funds remain and are created one, two, three state funds and the Bulgarian citizen can choose. I know this is a problem with an additional legislation, which is not very simple, which is complicated, but if this is done, this dispute that we are having here will be completely unnecessary. The second moment for which I am going out is Velizar Enchev's proposal to compensate those who in communism have paid a bachelor tax. I am here one of the oldest in this room and I very well remember how perfectly unjustly sanctioned people who have no family who can't have children and so on, and had to pay a significant part of their salaries, of their income for it. I am not sure that this should also happen in the vote on a new budget, but I am sure that this can happen with further proof and it will be fair. Bulgarian citizens will appreciate such a gesture of a National Assembly that they have sent here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u453	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u454	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Professor Stanilov, I couldn't understand how the group of Ataka will vote on this proposal, or will it not support it? That's my question. Will you support this proposal from the attack group? This is what we have not been able to understand from your speech, that is, will you vote together with the DPS for this proposal? That's what we're interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u455	Second line? A hole, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u456	I apologize for the words I am about to say now, but we must not speculate on who is voted on and who is not voted on when it comes to principles. Because when it comes to principles, we have voted here and in committees along with the Patriotic Front. Yesterday this happened, if you don't mind, dear colleague. Yesterday it happened twice. Sometimes interests match because of principles. I believe that a true political party, which has philosophy and holds on to principles, should not be influenced by conjunctural considerations. She has to vote in principle. Only if this is respected will our National Assembly remain in history. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u457	In the order of those enrolled by different parliamentary groups, I do not see in the hall Yordan Tsonev, the word has Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u458	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The additive in question, change, numbered under art. 4b will not be supported by the representatives of our parliamentary group. [[Applause from RB.]] The reason is, first of all, that we learned about this change from the media, from a meeting held on Sunday between the Prime Minister and the trade unions. We believe that the time for making such a serious decision, which is linked to the possible risk of transferring serious funds from private to state-owned possibly.. I say possibly....................................... is.................................. is........................... and should be taken..................................................................................................................................... This must be subject to public consultation and there must be a corresponding accompanying economic and financial analysis. Otherwise, it would be a pretty serious adventure for us. For this reason, we will not be able to support it, we will not be able to support this amendment. On the other hand, we do not accept the unilateral possibility of transferring from the private to the state fund without having the opposite opportunity for the rest of the life of the insured person. We cannot accept the arguments put forward by the Minister of Finance and by the trade unions. We, by the way, have struggled to have talks with all the parties concerned, including the funds, including employers, but we believe that such a unilateral decision does not benefit at least democracy in the name of which we swear and which we serve. So our decision has already been announced to you. It will be very interesting for us to vote in this House, as we were interested in following not only the coordination processes we have conducted, to draw an opinion from all sides. We were very interested, for example, I don't know if you guys did the work, but we were interested to see who was protesting this change. Last night there was a protest and today there was outside the National Assembly building. It was a big surprise to me that they were protesting people who had nothing to do with retirement. There were young men, young women, and young children among them. So it got really interesting. It is clear to me that these protests are not very natural, but nevertheless, when it comes to principle, we must be principled. I'd be interested to see how the individual groups will vote. And it amazes me very much that all the groups have spoken and one group is silent. I would just like to see how this group's position will be materialized, whose behavior we can define up to now as the silence of the lambs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u459	Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u460	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Simeonov, in your speech you stressed that you did not agree with the violation of democratic principles. Dear Mr. Simeonov, I ask you: what is a democratic pό of this you have to give someone the right to choose? What? With this change we give people the right to choose where they want to be provided, because now by law they are obliged to be provided in private pension funds! One. Secondly, you are talking about what were the people who protested. What about these people? Who are these people? What are they protesting? Against democratic principles? Is that what's happening right now? This is where the question is now: who, why, and how is motivated to protest? But that's another topic. My main question to you is: are you against the democratic principle? That's it? If you have any other motives, please point them out because it did not become clear from the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u461	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u462	Dear colleague, if it is not clear to me, and our group is against the new article. 4b. We are against this, and we are not against democracy and the implementation of democratic principles in every bill. I absolutely agree with what you said. And we think that at the moment the existing text is imperfect, the law is undemocratic and it must be changed! I absolutely join your statement and your position. We're on the same page. Don't look for conflict and don't blame me. We think exactly like you, but we believe that this should not be rushed, in no way should it happen unilaterally. Get organized, get ready. If we must, together we will propose a text that will change what has been undemocratic so far, it is absolutely entrenching. You must also change this proposal that you are making now. So there's no conflict, and my back is more of a confirmation of your words.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u463	Of all the parliamentary groups so far, except for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, they have not been involved. Mr. Ademov, we're listening. [[BSP LB.]] Georgi Gokov spoke on this topic from your group. [[Extreme lines from BSP LB.]] There are many points of change involved in this debate, so we respect the rotation of the groups. The offer is from your group.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u464	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since there are 31 points in this paragraph, at the very beginning I will say a few words about the proposal we are making for dropping this text in § 3, item 3. 31, which very briefly proposes to drop the so-called social service after 1 January 2015. This point of this paragraph is, in my opinion, wrongly proposed to drop out, because this is an overall discussion: pensions unrelated to employment must be resolved, i.e. this is a very large discussion about whether they should go to social assistance or not. Therefore, we have proposed that the text be removed at this stage. The more important question is for § 4b. Ladies and gentlemen, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms would immediately vote against this text... [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u465	Colleagues, tiredness says the word, but let's respect each other. This is Dr. Ademov. The noise in the room is more than acceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u466	Madam President, if there is any hint in the proposed text of canceling the three-stage model, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will be the first political force to vote against. If in this project there is any hint of nationalisation of the money of the insured persons in private pension companies, the DPS will vote mandatory against! Tell me, which one of the lyrics does that mean what I'm talking about? Is there such a text in the paragraphs of Paragraph 4b to be proposed? Here, however, the discussion is completely different and the direction in which it is moving is not, in my opinion, correct. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation at the moment? Currently, those who are being provided at the National Insurance Institute are the people born before 1959. Those who were born after 31 December 1959 have the opportunity to be provided in private pension companies as well. There's a theory called Risk Assessment. Who takes the risk when you choose to provide yourself at the National Insurance Institute? The risk is borne by the state because the Public Finance Act clearly states that it is the State that supports up to the amount of expenditure invested in the budget, state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund. That is to say, in the NSI, the risk is assumed by the state. Now what do you suggest? In private pension funds, ladies and gentlemen, the risk is borne by the insured! And now it's the law in force. Moreover, the risk is even transferred to the random distribution! Because 50% of those insured in private pension funds are distributed on a random basis! The distribution doesn't depend on their will. Now the big problem is: are we able to convince Bulgarian citizens not to touch their insurance contributions, their accounts in private pension funds or not?! Here the big question is: can private pension funds, because now the insurance risk, besides those insured, is also on them, deploy a mass information campaign to convince the insured to keep their money in private pension funds, or can they not?! It is a commitment of society as a whole. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in no case do we agree to oppose the solidarity pillar of the National Insurance Institute, the state social security budget, against private pension funds, because the difference is huge! The Solidar pillar pays pensions in the way that it is governed by the law, and in private pension funds they are complementary segment! These segments cannot work against each other We are a liberal party, ladies and gentlemen, for us the main value is to respect the right to free choice! The right to free choice is enshrined in these texts! There is no nationalisation anywhere in them, in no way is there anyone forced to force the insured to make their choice. If we want democratic change, let us support the right to free choice. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u467	First line, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u468	Dear Mr. Ademov, the text says the following: if you are a young person and start working and within one year you do not set up a fund you are going to the NSI for service, take you and send you to the NSI! [[Noise and lines.]] If it's freedom, if it's not a violation of rights, if it's a free choice, excuse me, it's outrageous! [[Lowered noise, lines and calls.]] It's demagogy! This is similar to the decision when you were changed your names: We change your names and we tell you to choose what you want Bulgarian name! [[Relations and calls from DPS.]] It's the total opposite! In 2013, 43,000 people were allocated by service. If the same is repeated in 2015, 40 thousand and more people will go to the NSI without the right to return. If this is your freedom, excuse me, this is total demagogy! And because I've known you for a long time, I expect professionalism and you have to admit that this is not freedom. It's a personal distribution from a private fund to a state fund. And then the young man won't have a chance, even if he wants to. Now he can go to whatever private fund he wants, even if it's officially distributed, he can go to whatever fund he wants, and then he stays in the NSI forever. That's it, I'm sorry, Mr. Ademov, this is a total violation of freedom! And I see no reason but an agreement between you and GERB to want to support these texts! [[(Noise, lines, calls from GERB:]] It has nothing to do with competition, with freedom, with principles! And you tell me the following thing: "Why do you have a private fund and I don't have a private fund?" They will always, forever remain in the NOI. Tell these people they have freedom. What freedom? The freedom to stay in the NOI for the rest of their lives and they can't go anywhere. So I call on Parliament and you, Mr. Ademov, to be honest not to support these texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u469	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u470	Madam President, honourable Members! The good thing is that the silence of the lambs has already been violated. [[Noise and lines.]] And as Mr. Ademov rightly expressed himself, the Movement for Money and Freedoms was expressed as always prepared and half-prepared. It becomes clear, Mr. Ademov, that from management and especially from money you understand very much, so I remember years ago during the three coalitions, if I am not mistaken, you graduated in three months instead of two years. [[(Noise and lines, calls from DPS:]] I won't, I won't, I won't, I
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u471	Mr. Kasabov, basic rule of...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u472	Don't interrupt me! At the same time, you were abroad at the same time, and at the same time you held the exams.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u473	Follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u474	Now I'm talking about it. When it comes to money, the movement for money and freedoms is revived, resurrected, and it is usually about a deal, something smells on them. The question is whether the deal has been made and what money has been directed towards the Movement for money and freedoms. It's the truth! Because this is the practice that has been required for years and because we have something else against us, but actually a brokerage company with a mafia taste. Thank you. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u475	Third line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u476	What kind of freedom are we talking about, gentlemen, since we all know what's really going to happen? Personally, I saw in my ticket today that I have a universal pension fund. I have no idea who he is. I will personally remain passive for this year and my money will go to the state. These are the real consequences of this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u477	But there's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u478	And God knows... [[Loud noise and lines.]] And God knows... [[Noise and lines.]] May I?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u479	Please! Order, please! We're keeping our colleague from speaking!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u480	The only thing we all want is to have an informed choice about what there is consensus about, i.e. to discuss in peace with various organizations the proposal of Minister Goranov. And I'm surprised why we're taking this political risk. Why are we inclined to say harsh words that put the majority at risk, putting consent at risk, and can in a civilised way come to consensus and make the necessary right decisions in relation to pension reform? Or, as a friend said today, it may be the choice if the money goes to the NSI I know I lose it immediately if they stay in the private pension fund I will lose them when I retire.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u481	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u482	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! Mr. Dimitrov, I want to ask how you feel in the company of people who constantly abuse the so-called Zoonyms. I'm talking about lambs, I'm talking about pigs. How do you feel about this xenophobic company? You're reformers, aren't you? You're Democrats, aren't you? [[Applause from the DPS, calls: "Bravo! "]] Mr. Dimitrov, would you like me to draw your statements here? There are recordings in the National Assembly's annals. To draw out your statements, in which you say when Simeon Djankov nationalized the money, was it, how many were there, from the occupational pension funds, were you not the person you were holding for the right to free choice? Well, now why deny free choice? These 40,000 people who have been chosen for their service, do they have the right to free choice? Of course they don't. You're Democrats and stop stitching us into some fictional, illusory formats of you. We vote based on our political identity. Dear Mr. Kasabov, if you want to deal with the problem of my qualification, please come here to talk to you on the topic of health insurance. [[Applause from DPS.]] If you can say at least the title of a health law without mistake, I will apologize to you! If not, then don't talk about my education, but deal with the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Deal with it and you'll find out what it's about! As far as this is concerned, Mr. Dimitrov, I refer again to you.......................... about this.............................. well inform them. Together, let's inform these people. If we don't inform them, they won't have free choice. [[Applause from the DPS, calls: Bravo! The People's Representative Valentin Kasabov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u483	There's no personal explanation for your line. [[Noise and lines.]] There's no such thing as a procedure. The Minister has asked for the floor. Before that procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u484	Madam President, I take the floor for a procedure in order to tell you that you must follow the Rules strictly. When a Member of the National Assembly starts disrespecting another Member of Parliament or a parliamentary group, you must stop it. I am also very tempted, Mr. Kasabov, instead of the Patriotic Front, to say "Money front," but I never do it because I follow the rules. [[Applause from DPS, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u485	You've taken the procedure in the manner of conduct. You've addressed a representative of the National Assembly. And if you believe that this is compliance with the Rules, we have a different understanding on this subject. Now you're entitled to a personal explanation, Mr. Kasabov. I'm starting to think that you're transferring each other and giving gestures and the ball because there wouldn't be a chance for a personal explanation if you hadn't come out and mentioned it by roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u486	The good thing is, Mr. Ademov, that you recognized each other, I didn't understand which one of the animals was the lambs or pigs. [[Loud noise.]] You've recognized each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u487	Mr. Kasabov! [[Noise, lines and calls from DPS.]] Mr. Kasabov, I take your word for it! [[National Representative Valentin Kasabov speaks in off microphones.]] Mr. Kasabov! [[Loud noise, lines and calls from DPS.]] Mr. Kasabov, please sit down! I'll take your word for it. The minister has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u488	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me, as I am not running away from responsibility as the Finance Minister of this country, which you have elected, to state my position on what is proposed in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the State Social Security Budget Act for 2015. We're going from history. What's positive about the story is that she stays. And then there's the doubts as to whether the model we've introduced is uncritical. Many years ago, not today, not a week ago, not a year ago, many years in different situations in which I have existed, I have had such an expert debate with experts, trade unions, employers' organisations, MPs who are currently in this Parliament, who were ministers, deputy ministers. I want without emotion, although somehow it's become very personal, to tell you what motivates me to offer support for such a decision. The main argument whether this is how freedom of choice is achieved is not, in my opinion, standing. However, what are the legitimate reservations of some of the colleagues from the various parties with which I led this debate? I fully agree that it is reprehensible between the first and second votes to make serious changes, but agree that this is possible under the Constitution. Many times such a technique has been used by each of the parties in parliament and especially by those MPs who can boast several mandates in the Bulgarian Parliament. That's not an argument either. Therefore, I would like to mention a few words essentially and a few words why I do not share all the reservations, and then I will say what we can do between 1 January and 31 March 2015. Most of the colleagues who express reservations express reservations about how to make a decision. It's an informed decision, colleagues. Syndicates, employers and the government in its various formats have been leading this debate for 15 years. The very fact that since 2010, pensions from the occupational pension funds had to be borne by them and paid by them as from 1 January 2010, the very fact that this debate continues to stand and they still do not pay either lev pension shows that there is something incomplete in the model. But I want to go back to the universal pension funds. Speculation is the word "nationalisation" for at least several reasons. Nationalisation requires a legislative solution to replace people's will. In no text here, this is not contained. Perhaps it is not a perfect solution for young people who start insurance for the first time, one year if they do not make a decision, the state should take it for them and lock them in the NSI as they are currently locked in the universal pension funds. Perhaps it is not right for the people who were born after 1959 to be able to return only once to the NSI and to be locked back in the NSI. A solution can therefore undoubtedly be proposed. That's what we're thinking, there's a solution. However, I do not accept the freedom of choice to cancel and postpone with the only reason that the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian National Assembly cannot make a decision. I feel ready to offer you this solution. GERB feels ready to support it and the debate is really principled. The debate really is principled! There is not a single person who speculates that I have heard to be forced to do anything since January 1st next year. Every Bulgarian citizen will have the freedom to choose whether to do anything, to remain as insured where he is or if he decides - to transfer his insurance contributions to the state pension system, to the state social security. When I introduce the model without giving you a lecture, I will tell it, I am sure that most of the people present in the hall know it.. it was not created as complementary to the first pillar. Why didn't you create yourself as a complement? Because the social security contribution to universal pension funds is not above the social security contribution. The contribution to universal pension funds for additional compulsory pension insurance, colleagues, is at the expense of the contribution to state social security. With it, the contributions of the persons born after 1959 are reduced. The pension formula provides that, when the public social security pensions are calculated, it will take into account the insurance income of the persons during the months during their insurance period relative to the country's average social security income for the respective month. Upon conversion, the so-called RFF shall be received, which takes into account the individual contribution through the way of providing the person up to the time of retirement. This individual coefficient, which, if you provide twice the national average, will be two, is multiplied by the number of years in which you have been in insurance, for example, 30 years of insurance service, and multiplied by a coefficient of 1.1. Then divide over 100 and multiply the last insurance income for the country for the previous 12 months. That's how you get your pension in the first pillar. This is not so for individuals born after 1959. With their pension so far everything is the same for everyone, but it is adjusted by the ratio between the amount of the contribution to the universal pension fund to the contribution of the persons born before 1959. The total contribution for the persons insured only in the state social security. In this case, we are talking about a ratio of 12.8 to 17.8. This is also seen from the texts of the Law. This ratio approximately shows that under equal conditions one person born before 1 January 1960 will receive guaranteed by nearly 29% more than state social security. Persons born after 1959 must receive this complement from their individual accounts funds in the universal pension funds. Where is the need to give free choice? Let's not swear by one model or another. Let this responsibility for an informed decision to transfer it to the Bulgarian citizens. Why? Because there is no reliable method to be able to assess whether during the entire period of the provision of the young Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov the accumulated funds in his individual lot and the funds realized during the period of his provision will be so, less or more than the 29%, which Prime Minister Borisov, born on 13 June 1959, will be guaranteed. I can get more than that. Maybe he gets less, maybe we're even.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u489	You can't do this anymore! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u490	But I have no right to choose. I have no right to decide whether to insure against the risk that the income in pension funds from the Universal Pension Fund is such that the sum of the pension that I will receive from the NSI and from the Universal Pension Fund will be greater or equal to the one that Prime Minister Borisov will receive, born on 13 June 1959. However, if it happens that we do not have the freedom to choose, it is very possible that after years all Bulgarian citizens born after 1959 will find themselves able to have lower pensions than those who have provided themselves only in state social security. It may happen the exact opposite, but, colleagues, if they happen to be lower, then they will come to the National Assembly and say, "You kept us locked up, you gave us no choice. Your model failed. You didn't give us the benefit of the doubt. You didn't let us take a 35-year risk. You have made this decision for us, so pay the difference. " - And if it is negative, it could be big. I propose to the Bulgarian Parliament not to take this responsibility, although once in 2001, he took it. Therefore, my fellow Members, I have been behind this proposal, which has been repeatedly discussed. That's not a new topic. For the one of you who is new, we can explain it to him for a long time. For society, this topic is not new. It was no accident that Central and Eastern European countries, in which this model was established, made it a revision of both Poland and the Czech Republic and Hungary. They didn't do it the right way. They don't make it so liberal. Reading the current proposal of the law, you will find that you could stay there after 1 January next year until the end of your insurance in the universal pension fund. And if, on the day before your retirement, you find that it is not profitable for you to retire to a universal pension fund only then, after 20, after 30 years, to collect all the money you have in the universal pension fund and to go to the state social security, to get a better, worse or the same pension. But that's up to you. This choice is given to you for the entire period. There is speculation, there is speculation in the society of speculation that you see, 3 million Bulgarian citizens next year will have to make efforts to find their pension fund, which is actually a problem because pension funds cannot easily find them. They are not active against Bulgarian citizens. They are not active on them, but they should be. In a study on nature and the reasons for the wealth of the peoples, Adam Smith said: "In competition, personal interest gives birth to the common good. "
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u491	It's neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u492	Freedom of choice should not create tension in the Bulgarian Parliament. It should unite the Bulgarian Parliament on these decisions. If we have not hit the wax with these texts, we have given ourselves a period from 1 January 2015 to 31 March 2015 and we have locked ourselves up with a political commitment in it, and it is no accident that every parliamentary party represented received a letter that we ask her to participate in this debate, which will be held in a trilateral format. In this case, we want it to be quadruple. We want it to be: government, employers' organisations, trade unions, parliamentary parties. Not that they are a fourth country, but because the Bulgarian Parliament must ensure that once and for all what we are united around will have the parameters of long eternity. The freedom of choice is lacking in this equation and there is no reason to postpone the decision to have freedom to choose Bulgarian citizens. I agree that it is not entirely guaranteed, insofar as these texts do not allow you to move repeatedly between the universal fund and state social security. It does not give this, but I make a commitment to you that the government will make it compulsory, even if the debate is not held by 31 March. In 2015, in the first month of the following year, the Council of Ministers should submit precise, well-formed texts that fully correspond to the ideology and technology of public security, whether in a universal or state fund. I would even support, although conceptually opposing the state of universal funds in the capital pillar is not entirely acceptable to me as a right-wing person, but I would support even that so there is no doubt. This will be the third choice to have the right to be in state social security, to have the right to be in a capital fund, in a state fund to state social security. By the way, there is, and this is the Teacher's Pension Fund. And have the right to remain where you are. We will ensure that you can be able to do so repeatedly, although there is no such model in the world every year or as often as you want to change positions. Now we like the universal fund, but after 2 years it seems more profitable to be in state social security. Whether it's right or wrong, but having such a technique and being so liberal is a matter of modeling. But I want to distract from you all the concerns that we want to nationalize something or we want to force someone to do it. A year wasn't enough for people who first started insurance to make a decision. Perhaps half of Bulgarian citizens do not know which universal pension fund they are in. But I'm not saying it's good or bad. If there is no choice, it is very likely that universal pension funds will become more active in communications with insured persons. That's what I'd do. The only thing that's bothering me right now is that the hysteria that's being created around this decision creates fear in people, prejudges their choice. This debate should not be held this way. There's nothing wrong with freedom of choice. However, if the main criticism to me is that it has not happened after many years of debate, I will only quote you that we have not been able to decide for five years how to retire the miners and postpone it at the expense of public insurance, because not everyone is well enough insured in professional pension funds. We cannot, fellow Members, permanently nationalize losses and privatize profits. NOI does not spend a penny of your contributions to manage your pensions. That doesn't mean the NOI is better. However, assuming that the costs made by the NSI for administration can be attributed to the costs incurred by the universal pension funds, the support rate for the NSI is 2-3 and the universal pension funds have a fee 5. It's okay. Perhaps now they will take it down, because they will have to provide information to people and prove that additional funds are needed for the administration of the funds they administer. But people will have a choice. I conclude with the commitment of the Council of Ministers to submit such a bill, which will build on the proposed changes, which will not leave a shred of doubt that the state allows itself to decide instead of the people. What would happen if the funds were put into state social security? Well, they'll be saved, colleagues, because you just approved the expenditure on the budget of state social security for 2015 and the Council of Ministers has no mechanism to exceed it. There's no way he can outrun it! What if, because of the hysteria, people get scared and go to state social security? It is very possible that the annual contributions of 800 million and some of the accumulated funds in the universal pension funds will begin to be transferred to state social security. This isn't nationalization. It's a free choice. The money will stay at the National Insurance Institute. The money will stay there and they can't be spent. I make a commitment as a finance minister and as long as I am, this money does not provoke me for greater costs. These funds will only go for a reduction in government debt and a reduction in the deficit of the consolidated fiscal programme. This money is not for spending, it is saved and let it remain saved. But instead of taking on new debts, if people decide to rely on state social security, primarily on universal funds, the greatest risk, colleagues, is that the attractiveness of universal pension funds will have to be guaranteed to increase. Otherwise, after years, if it turns out that because of an economic situation, because of a demographic situation the funds in the universal pension funds are so much that I will receive a lower or greater pension than the one that was provided without being forced by the state to stand in the universal fund, then the state will surely also have to pay the public social security bill, as it is now paying with billions of taxes, and the account in the universal pension funds. There has been speculation: "KTB 2" "KTB 3". Let anyone who manages public resources, and these are billions of public resources, be at the height of their responsibility so that there are no more imbalances in the state financial system. There is nothing wrong with people being able to choose, and I guarantee you that the government will propose a bill that guarantees full freedom of choice. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Replies from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u493	Go ahead, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u494	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! My fellow Members, I think enough has been said on this subject. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] We have heard the opinion and position of each parliamentary group............................................................................................... In addition, the last few days we have seen clarification in all media from known and unknown experts. I propose that we put an end to the debate on this point and move on to the vote. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u495	Inverse opinion Mr. Popov. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u496	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a reverse offer. This is the will of the Bulgarian electorate. "There are so many political forces in this parliament. One speaker didn't even reach for all the political forces. Nothing is clear. I listened carefully to Minister Goranov's story, only this story might have had to last two or three or five months to make it clear. Nothing is clear on this budget. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Nothing is clear on this budget! I'm doing reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u497	There has been a procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. I'm putting the motion to a vote. They voted 201 MPs: 112, against 80, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Gechev has the floor of revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u498	Madam President, I'm asking for two things. First, re-vote and, second, let it be clear that you had a Bulgarian professor waiting for an hour you had recorded it. [[Sighs, lines, noise on the right.]] One hour! You have deprived our parliamentary group of speeches on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u499	You, who ruined the banking system, are now talking about pension reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u500	I also want a break on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[Replications, loud noise.]] Shame and shame! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u501	Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Gechev, you've taken the floor for re-voting. I won't speak for you! [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] You didn't say.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u502	Madam President, I said, but because it was noisy in the Chamber, on behalf of the parliamentary group, we want a break, too. Thank you. [[Loud noise, vocals and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u503	Guys, don't worry, there's gonna be a re-vote now. I put forward a re-voting motion to end the debate. Vote 213 MPs: 119, against 88, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[People's representative wants the floor for a negative vote.]] There is no possibility of a negative vote on procedural proposals. A recess has been requested on behalf of a parliamentary group. I'm calling a break till 6:50. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u504	Colleagues, please take your seats, the meeting is ongoing. Let's move on to the vote. On the report first is the proposal of the MP Mr. Borislav Borisov. In her speech Mrs. Yanakieva said she was withdrawing it, but there is no such possibility. He is not personally present in the Chamber, which is why I am putting to the vote Mr. Borislav Borisov's proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 195 MPs: 43, against 68, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 202 MPs: 90 against 89, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u505	Madam President, I'm taking the floor in a re-voting procedure because I couldn't figure out if my voice was affecting a system. [[Noise and lines.]] I will not continue to motivate the victims of the bachelor tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u506	I put the proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 207 MPs: for 94, against 93, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are about to vote on the proposal of MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 205 MPs: for 73, against 99, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mariana Todorova's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 207 MPs: 57, against 62, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 212 MPs: for 89, against 98, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u507	Madam President, I do not wish to violate the Rules of Procedure, and I will simply say that I have the hope of a change in the vote by looking at the number of votes voted, so I ask for a re-vote. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u508	Let's respect Mr. Gokov's hope. I put forward the proposal by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 210 MPs: 91, against 98, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Stefan Kenov has made proposals that are supported by the Commission report. 11, 12 and 14. During the discussion he withdrew his proposal on the topic. 1, t. 2, p. 4 t. 5, t. 7 and so on. 13. I put to the vote Mr. Kenov's proposal in the part of his proposal not supported by the Commission. They voted 212 MPs: 61, against 90, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u509	Honourable Members, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I propose the vote on this. 3 concerning the creation of art. 4b in the Social Security Code, which caused even the most violent debates in the plenary, to be carried out separately, i.e. to vote separately point 3, art. 4b in the Social Security Code. Then it will become clear who voted and none of the MPs will be able to hide behind explanations in the general vote. This text is really important. We have not been able to speak on it since the debates have been suspended, so people will draw conclusions about the opinion of one or another, about one or another parliamentary group in the way of voting, so let us be clear who has supported and who is not the creation of this so controversial text. I think it would be more honest to both the MPs and the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u510	A reverse opinion? Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u511	Madam President, gentlemen and ministers! This procedure for ending the debate at second reading was not in the Rules of the 41st National Assembly. You introduced her and we follow and continue this tradition that you introduced. So don't talk, please, why the debate is ended! I am making the opposite proposal to vote on the paragraph and the text as it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u512	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for a split vote on this. 3 for the creation of art. 4b of § 3 of the Social Security Code. That's the offer, isn't it? Mrs. Manolova's proposal, yes. Vote 217 MPs: 94 against 102, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u513	Madam President, honourable Members! I think the text is important enough to stand each with his name for voting on this text. [[GERB lines.]] What are you afraid of, Mr. Lazarov? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] What are you afraid of?! What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen of GERB? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] You will be ashamed later because there is no way to hide behind the common text and behind common excuses. [[Voices: Where is the procedure?]] I think that a clear position should be taken by each Member of the National Assembly and that anyone who has dignity should not be worried about his way of voting on this text. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u514	Revoting Mrs. Manolova's proposal. [[Reply by National Representative Radan Kanev.]] Vote 212 MPs: 94 against 106, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kanev, will you do the procedure? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u515	Colleagues, I am proposing a roll call vote on this point. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u516	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I presume? Because it is either on behalf of a parliamentary group or a minimum of ten MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u517	On behalf of the Reformation Block Group. For us, the whole debate of the past days, the importance of this decision is enormous, so it is good to know each individual MP how and what company he has voted in. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I was impressed by the printout of the vote to end the debate, from which we can make an interesting conclusion the owners of the pension funds so attacked by importers, which of the two options prefer. [[Applause. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u518	Colleagues, please be quiet. In accordance with art. 64 of the Rules of Procedure, when a proposal has been made under art. 63, para. 2, that's t. 5 for roll-call spelling the names of the Members of the National Assembly and the way they vote without debate, immediately the proposal shall be put to the vote without debate. However, one MP from a parliamentary group is listening, which disagrees with the proposal. Will there be a reverse proposal, or should I just put it to the vote? I won't. [[BSP LB lines. Proclaims: "Mr. Lazarov! "]] Mr. Lazarov gave up. I shall put to the vote Mr. Kanev's proposal for a vote in accordance with art. 63, para. 2, p. 5 in relation to Art. 64 of the Rules of Procedure. Vote 213 MPs: 92 against 110, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote § 3 in its version of the Commission's report. Vote 212 MPs: 120 against 57 abstentions 35. The motion is accepted. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov wants to see the results in groups. Thank you. Professor Gechev has the floor for anything. [[(Laughter) It's a thrill. Partial applause.)]] Negative vote or re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u519	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u520	We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u521	Madam President, I would like to state that I will never forget this service. Thank you for giving me this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u522	I expect from you a proposal in the Staff Regulations that the academic titles be of priority.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u523	My fellow Members, I voted against it for the following reasons. Firstly, honourable Members, we are talking about the fate of pensions of nearly 4.5 million people and pension fund assets, which are 7.9 billion. lv. Dear colleagues, bringing this in on Monday versus Tuesday, you had not even made talks and discussions with your own partners on the subject. You ignored the opposition and on Tuesday during the Budget Committee we were literally given texts about these fates to nearly 5 million people and 8 billion. lv. Secondly, there is no comparative analysis of these eight billion. Dear colleagues, how do we make a decision?! That is why most of my fellow Members also vote abstention. What is our responsibility so, on our knee, to decide on the fate of the pension reform of the Republic of Bulgaria and to play with the fate of the people. Thirdly, it is not true, honourable Member Goranov, that there are no elements of nationalisation. It didn't have nationalization in the Health Insurance Act either. There's a billion and a half of them. The money's gone. Where's the money? [[Loud noise.]] There was a lousy reserve of 3.7 billion left instead of 8.5. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let me explain to you the mechanism of how the money will disappear. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "How? "]] Privatization funds go to NOI [[breathing loudly and shouting, laughing]] NSI reduces transfers from the budget, reduced transfers from the budget are spent by the government, whatever you say. [[Loud noise.]] Look, it can't be assumed that on Tuesday morning, at some point, someone came up with a brilliant idea of how they cared about people's fate... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one sentence. It's clear that we have a ruling coalition that plays the role I see from the debate, from the bufosynchronists, and the writer is another, he's the same. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u524	Thank you. Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski, second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u525	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! I am here to say that we in the Reforming Block voted against this proposal. We are not responsible for this decision of the National Assembly. [[Private applause.]] It is important to us that the coalition agreement has been broken and, unfortunately, this proposal has not been discussed with the coalition partners. This proposal received neither the support of the Reformation Block nor the Patriotic Front nor the ABB. These are three of the political formations that support this government. There's no political logic to what you're doing. There is no political logic in not listening to the people who support you and voting together with the DPS. [[Noise and lines.]] When there is no political logic, there is obviously something behind the political logic and behind the transparency that we are all fighting for. There is no political logic in the fact that you make people out there protest an absolutely pointless decision. Mr. Minister Goranov himself said that today we are going to make some impractical decisions that we are going to make by the end of March. Then why are we in a hurry? Why this forceful approach? Why did you shut up even the people who support you so that they wouldn't give you arguments? Political, expert arguments? Why did this proposal enter without being discussed and agreed with the NSI Supervisory Board? It has not been discussed and accepted by the Council of Ministers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is not agreed with the social partners, as it is not even accompanied by a formal impact assessment. Today you have made a decision that does not have any political logic, and usually in such a case the conclusion is only one of the behind there is something hidden, gentlemen! Congratulations! [[Applause from the Reformation bloc. Scandal: "Chest-it!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u526	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u527	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, dear MPs! Mr. Minister Goranov, your very valuable and important statement motivates me to vote against. You said three very important things. You quoted classics and thus raised the level of debate from the previous minutes, for which I am really happy and thank you. Secondly, you said something very important that was heard in this room. As I recall, you have admitted that you have been thinking for a long time, working, thinking about reforms in the pension insurance system. And it is very good that the Bulgarian ministers are such good ministers, and in this there is no irony towards you, I would like to stress it. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] However, this raises a very serious question, Mr. Ademov, that the existing pension model is being questioned. I believe, Mr. Ademov, that you know by heart all the laws relating to the health and insurance system, and I am very curious how the highly competent group of DPS who said here that it will not support this bill, if there is even a doubt that the pension insurance model is being questioned, voted for. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Those were the words of the highly respected minister. Thirdly, you promised something very important and we will hold you to it and we believe you will. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. There is no irony in this for you, and you, as I have, have admitted that we do not know what our pension will be. (Scanding: "Chest-of-the-day" by BSP LB.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u528	Gore-chi-vo!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u529	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u530	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since colleagues obviously have a lot of notes, they have arranged to speak, I suggest that the time of today's plenary session be extended to 11 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u531	A counteroffer? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal just made to extend the working hours to 11:00. Please vote. Vote 164 MPs: 118, against 36, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[Most of BSP LB's parliamentary group is coming out of plenary. Scandal: Until-see-yes-no! by GERB.]] Mrs. Yordanova, continue the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u532	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: [[Most of the DPS Parliamentary Group is coming out of plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u533	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u534	............................................ In the Law on Health (prom., SG...) art. is created. 235a: Art. 235a. (1) He who violates the provisions of the act of the Council of Ministers under art. 103a, is punished with a fine from 100 to 500 leva. on a case-by-case basis. If the same infringement is repeated, the fine shall be double the amount initially imposed. (2) Head of a medical establishment who has violated his obligations under the organization of the activities for the provision of data in the register under art. 33, para. 5, t. 12 of the Code of Social Security laid down in the Regulation under art. 101, para. 7 of this law is punished with a fine from 100 to 500 BGN. on a case-by-case basis. If the same infringement is repeated, the fine shall be double the amount initially imposed. (3) The violations of para. 1 and 2 shall be established by acts drawn up by the control bodies of the National Insurance Institute and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the head of the territorial division of the National Insurance Institute or by a person authorised by it. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u535	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. We will only wait for the MPs to make their choice whether to stay or leave the House. Those who remain, please remain silent. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 4. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 8. The Commission's proposal for the revision of § 4 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u536	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs for the creation of new paragraphs 15a and 15b. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 5 and 6: .................................................................................. The Criminal Code (promise, SG...) makes the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 is created t. 29: It's 29. It is mandatory social security contributions for public insurance or for health insurance in large amounts that exceed three thousand BGN, and the insurance contributions for public social security or for health insurance in particularly large amounts are those that exceed twelve thousand BGN. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 255b: Art. 255b. (1) Whoever hides compulsory social security contributions or large-scale health insurance, such as: 1. declare insurance income in a smaller amount than the actual benefit of the insured person; 2. does not submit a declaration; 3. confirm untruth or secret truth in the declaration submitted; 4. compositions or uses a false document, false or falsified document in the exercise of business, in the course of accounting or when submitting information to the revenue authorities; 5. destroy or conceal accounting documents, accounting registers or payrolls within statutory deadlines; is punished by imprisonment up to five years and fined up to two thousand leva. (2) When the act under para. 1 was carried out with the participation of a revenue body or registered auditor, the penalty is imprisonment from one to six years and fine up to five thousand levs, as well as deprivation of rights under art. 37, para. 1, t. 6 and 7. (3) Where the obligations for compulsory social security contributions or health insurance are in particular large amounts, the penalty shall be imprisonment from two to eight years and confiscation of part or all of the property of the guilty. (4) If, until the judicial investigation has been completed in the first instance, compulsory social security contributions or health insurance shall be paid into the budget together with interest, the penalty under para. 1 and 2 is imprisonment up to two years and fine up to five hundred levs, and under para. 3 years and a fine of up to a thousand leva. (5) The worker or employee subject to compulsory insurance shall not be liable for criminal liability under para. 1.. 4, including incitement and assistance.......................................................................................... § 6. In the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 83a, para. 1 after the number
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u537	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u538	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! The Patriot Front Group will refrain from supporting this text for a change in the Penal Code. First of all, we believe that it is not a good way to amend and introduce new criminal groups when we adopt the budget of state social security. I don't think this is a good legislative technique. Next, if you look at the text of our proposed criminal composition, which we are introducing, although there are some noble and good motives in it with the so-called criminalisation of the non-payment of insurances, we exclude from the circle of persons, those who can be instigators or aiders in committing this crime, workers and employees. Colleagues, can we not imagine a hypothesis in which a worker or employee is an instigator or an employer's aide in carrying out the composition of insurance evasion? It is not only real but a public secret that this thing is happening in not one and two companies that are employers. Furthermore, the definition that we give to the "specially large size" and "large size" of the insurances does not make it clear how we determine the values. How do we know that 3,000 leva. is a large size and 12 000 leva. A particularly large size? Is it for one insured person, for a few? We don't have a base here to set foot on. We have no motive. If this proposal had been made in a normal manner, if it had gone through a Legal Committee, we might have had such motives and we would have heard some arguments that would motivate us and lead us to an opinion to support this proposal. But done in this way, first of all, excluding the hypothesis of aiding, inciting by the worker or employee, that is, we are erasing the criminal act of one group of persons, and of another group we are not erasing it, I consider this completely unfounded. For example, how better is the worker or employee than the employer after the same worker or employee has gone and asked him: "Please delete, make there a change in my payroll. Don't pay those insurance bills, pay me the money, all the cash, I don't want to be paid for. Therefore, for us specifically for these reasons, the text is not valid, it is not good. The aim of fighting a public-dangerous act, such as withholding insurance, with only one particular group and category of persons, and for others to erase the criminal nature of the act only because they were workers and employees, is unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u539	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u540	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! With few exceptions in this House, only representatives of the right hand remained. I expect the next votes that concern the criminalisation of these so-called actions, given that the workers are not included, to vote against. You know very well what the practice is in the country. Most of you right-wing people are employers. The worker says, "I want 500 BGN, from there on you deal with it." In this sense, I argue that much of the insurance, perhaps 80 or 90% of all employees, is paid by the employer at 100%. Now, given all that's piled up on his head, because one employer other than responsibilities, there's nothing else he has but obligations, we make him out to be the biggest criminal. I'm asking you not to work on the dictation of the trade unions. Please pay attention to the people who are driving the economy in the country. I am asking you to give these people a chance to develop the economy to open up new jobs. Believe me, without the knowledge and without the demands of the workers, this will not happen. These great penalties that you are predicting for employers at the moment I am about to have penalties, but let them be for both sides. Because both parties are involved in the process. Therefore, please think of it as people who are right-thinking, as people who are betting on the market economy and entrepreneurship in the first place, not to support these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u541	Thank you, Mr. Christov. First line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u542	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Dear Mr. Hristov, it is good that you are calling and I would very much like the right hand in Bulgaria to equalize employers and workers again. There is an International Labour Organisation, there are different UN conventions, there are established European legislation, and they are all with the understanding that the worker is the weak side and must be protected in these respects. At the time, it was not long ago, those with whom you are in coalition now, GERB accepted the same responsibility and fine for both workers and employers. The fate of this text was unenviable, it's gone. But I'd be very happy if you'd align both sides. The worker shall not be liable for any debt to the National Insurance Institute, nor to the Health Insurance Fund, nor to the NRA. It's the employer's job. I would be very happy if you could accept the philosophy that the worker is also responsible for what the employer has not done. It is the employer who makes the deductions from the worker owed to the institutions concerned. But it is a good thing that the person of the ruling majority is emerging with these motives that you say. We are extremely pleased that you state it here in the National Assembly, and we will do our best to make it known to more people, Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Policy in Bulgaria in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u543	Second line? Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u544	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague, you have heard some of the reasons for dividing the responsibility between employers and employees. Indeed, we have reserved responsibility because we have accepted that an economically and legally active entity should bear the greater responsibility. Also, since this is not the first debate on the subject, I would like to distinguish the following difference because my colleague Mitev had not distinguished it, did not notice it. We do not propose incriminating the non-payment, but only the concealment, that is, we accept that in this act the active entity and the one that is primarily obliged is mainly the employer. To colleagues who commented on incitement, I would rather say the following: the division of this responsibility purely criminally, would sharpen and help prove in relation to the basic act, i.e. what would be done by the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u545	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Christov? You won't use it. Do other Members of Parliament wish to take part in the debate? Welcome to Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u546	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Just a few words in a nutshell. I think we're on the verge of making a new Penal Code inside the Penal Code because of the Labor Code. Because the administration is ineffective and unable to work, we are trying to confuse the Penal Code. It's 1968, but it's still active.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u547	It's still got lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u548	So far, no one's thought of making a mistake like that. And in the Penal Code itself, Mr. Mikov is extremely right, there is a text that refers to labour law. He's got a code of work, so he's been raised into a code. The text is about embarrassment. Let's not confuse the slander, the insult and so on. Embarrassment means a person who is in such a position that this person who put him in the position did not preserve him, did not protect him, and he suffered any property, no property, and so on. We should not now just because the administration is ineffective and there is no administrative capacity to touch the Penal Code. I don't think it's right. Think about it and you'll see. Tomorrow somebody's gonna think somebody caught a fish and that's punishment. For non-true, forged, false documents, the Penal Code is sufficiently detailed and signed with all kinds of penalties, and here the proportionality of penalties is unfairly increased both as a financial violation and as a fine and as a sanction under art. 37 of the Penal Code, i.e. we are looking for criminal liability in particularly large proportions for crimes that can be treated as such, incriminated, of an employer who has 1000 workers and is mistaken for 100 BGN. Separately, who will be held responsible? - the audit firm that checks it out, the house that does these services to him, and so on? We are making a norm that will not work and will declare all employers criminals and will make it possible for anyone who is not satisfied with the salary he receives to cause them problems that will last over time. I don't think this is the right time, it's not on the agenda, and we don't exactly have to make the amendment that we want to make happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u549	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u550	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will refrain from supporting this proposal in principle. You know very well, and those who have been in previous parliaments, that specifically the amendments to the Penal Code have a permanent practice not to be offered in the Transitional and Final Provisions of another law, because criminal justice is specific enough, important enough as a whole sector of law, not to approach it in such a hasty ad hoc manner. These are texts and compositions that need to be very carefully refined, coordinated with the country's overall criminal justice policy, synchronized with other texts relevant to the given matter or area being criminalised, and assess the severity of the punishment, the factual composition and so on and so forth. Therefore, especially the amendments to the Penal Code have always been handled carefully, with more serious discussions. It is imperative to pass the entire parliamentary procedure. The submission of a separate bill, consideration at first, second reading and so on. Therefore, as tempting as it may seem to someone now to please this or that of some organizations who have long insisted on this, we should abstain at the moment. There is nothing urgent to legislate specifically in this matter. If you wish, submit a separate bill. Let it be examined carefully by the Legal Committee, because it has not been involved at all, honourable Mr. President of the Legal Commission, and then to vote on such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u551	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u552	Honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Chairman! I will support this text to criminalise the concealment of insurance contributions. I will do it despite the reservations I have as a lawyer regarding the application of this text. Let me tell the speakers so far that the text existing several years ago in the Penal Code, which was repealed by the Constitutional Court, was referring to the non-payment of the contributions due. Now this text criminalizes not the non-payment, but the concealment of compulsory social security contributions. According to the unions, this is one of the means to protect people of labor. Unlike you, ladies and gentlemen, who do not fulfil your commitments either to voters or to responsible organisations - for example employers, nor to coalition partners, and unlike you, dear Minister [[turns to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin]] which you also do not fulfil commitments to the people of the labour and to your constituents, I, when I make any commitment in this case the commitment to trade unions, usually fulfill it. I will therefore support the text in plenary, and time will show whether this will result in a greater collection of social security contributions. Syndicates also have their expertise. They've been insisting on this text for a long time. For a long time, parliamentary groups have promised and failed to keep their promises in plenary. Personally, I will support him by fulfilling a commitment.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u553	- What's the line? I won't. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u554	Thank you, Madam President. In a nutshell. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on you to support this text. He's just comparing the evasion of insurance contributions to tax evasion. As we all agree that tax evasion is not a good thing and is punishable, and is part of the Penal Code, in the same way insurance contributions are aligned with this text. All of us in these detailed debates in recent days have found that the state budget is actually financing payment of pensions. So the more we allow for the concealment of contributions, the more we burden on the other hand the taxes, something that doesn't make sense. On Mr. Kazak's observations, which are absolutely correct, that it may not be right to change the Penal Code in the transitional provisions of this law, I would say that it may not be right to change the Code of Social Security with the transitional provisions of this law, but Parliament has just done so, so I think this is exactly the same motive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u555	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I don't see any.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u556	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u557	Procedure for?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u558	For a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u559	We didn't close the debate. We'll get to the vote. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Now you can make your offer. It's just one point. What are we splitting up?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u560	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, my proposal for a split vote on art. 255b, which is created new in the NK, the paragraph in question. 5 The worker and the employee subject to compulsory insurance shall not be liable for criminal liability under para. 1-4, including incitement and assistance. I suggest that we vote on this paragraph separately. The committee received a lot of debate between lawyers about this thing, that, first of all, so formulated, and legally not precise; secondly, at least it is incorrect because it places employers and employees at a disadvantage. It is quite possible that there is a situation in which employees of an undertaking, imagine, for example, a very simple situation, the employer is in difficulty because he does not receive regular payments from a municipality or from a state under a public contract, cannot pay salaries and social security, is under pressure from the workers, that they will leave, and the ultimatum is to receive periodic payments, and he obviously, forced by the circumstances, can decide, without, of course, to hide insurance, to do something similar. This hypothesis practically excludes responsibility for workers in this situation, even though they may be the initiators of the whole thing. Therefore, my proposal is for a split vote on this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u561	Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u562	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members, we are approaching a ridiculous situation. Do not accept this proposal for a separate vote. Besides the employers, as mentioned earlier, and the workers want to put you in jail! How will he motivate the worker when the employer is the responsible person? Stop it! If you can, skin these workers alive!? [[Radio.]] They're big, they're high in wages, put them in prisons to support the state. It's just the deviation of right-wing thinking, anti-work thinking reaching heights tonight. Read some laws, read some things and stop. You are exposing Bulgaria with such reasoning that workers should be punished because the employer has failed to fulfil an obligation and has concealed. He just can't. It's not the 19th century, it's not Dickens. No matter how much you spell right, there are limits that can't be crossed. That's where you get into idiocy. [[Radio and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u563	Colleagues, please! Please no emotions. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's procedural proposal in § 5, item 5. 2 for the creation of art.255b, para. 5 to vote separately. We vote on Mr. Slavov's proposal. They voted 116 MPs: 28 against 51, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote please, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u564	I apologize, colleagues, for taking up more time, but I do, because on the left, obviously, the hall was misled. The point of this request that we have made is to look at each individual case in court and not for priors to exclude liability ex-lege, regardless of what a person has done. You know the difference yourself. That's why I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u565	In a re-vote procedure, you can say that you failed, not essentially. But I'll allow your request. I'm putting Mr. Slavov's proposal for a separate vote on para. Art. 5 of art. 255b. We vote. They voted 121 MPs: 26, against 60, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs with numbers 5 and 6 in their version of the Commission report. We vote. They voted 127 MPs: for 89, against 7, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u566	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I'm taking my negative vote with a few things I'd like to say in front of you. First of all, as a graduate and practitioner, I cannot agree that a criminal law norm, colleagues, we accept it at 19.58.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u567	And at one reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u568	You think it's early, Mr. Atanasov? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u569	I was very surprised, come on, I'm a first term MP, in this Parliament there are 6 times 7 terms. First of all, this norm hasn't been seen in the Legal Commission. Second, she didn't go to first reading. Three, enter immediately at second reading. Fourth, it is not consistent with specialists, especially in criminal law. Fifth, it's not consistent with prosecutors. This is an extremely important norm, you know? It's about criminal law. Every comma there is important. We are currently pushing this vote. Half of us aren't in the gym. That's what I'm saying. [[Radio.]] And the other, colleagues, every comma in this penal code is extremely important. I think that at least for the next 15 years it has not been legal for such a precedent that so many things have been missed and we have a criminal norm to vote on it in such a way. It's just outrageous. I'm telling you this is just outrageous! With this norm, we'll be suing people. Understand that, some will go to jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u570	Second negative vote? I won't. Please, Mrs. Yordanova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u571	Proposal by the National Representative Stefan Kenov for a new paragraph: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The public claims on liabilities for health insurance contributions and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and on compulsory social security contributions administered by the National Insurance Institute shall be paid with the expiry of a 10-year limitation period as from 1 January of the year following the year in which the public debt should have been paid, unless the law provides for a shorter period. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for amendment to the Criminal Code, which is reflected in a new § 5, and does not support the proposal for amendment to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u572	Statements? I won't. What is generally supported is already reflected in the votes § 5. I put to the vote Mr. Stefan Kenov's proposal in the part which is not supported by the amendment to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. They voted 112 MPs: 8 against 65, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u573	The Commission proposes to establish §§ 7 and 8: .................................................... In the Law for establishment of work and insurance internship in judicial order (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2 the 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 12 (Commission Implementing § 8. In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 40, para. 1, t. 1 the words............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u574	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs with numbers 7 and 8 in their version of the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 95, against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u575	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u576	We are voting § 9 on the report. Vote 110 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u577	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2015, with the exception of § 3, item 3. Point 5 (b) (i.e. point 5 (b)) (i.e. 18 and 31, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u578	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 10. They voted 111 MPs: for 104, against none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u579	Madam President, I propose an anblock vote on the annexes to the newly adopted State Social Security Budget Act, as no proposals have been made. Accordingly, I suggest that you put to the vote Annexes 1, 2, 3 and 4 corresponding to Articles 8, 13, 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u580	Statements? I won't. I put the Commission proposal to support the text of the importer for Annexes 1 to 4 inclusive. They voted 111 MPs: 100, against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the program for today [[Applause from GERB]] Subcutaneous or intravenous use THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2015, No 402-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014, adopted at the first vote on 8 December 2014. We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u581	Madam President, I propose a procedure for admission to Mr. Kiril Ananiev's room.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u582	I put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Ananiev. They voted 111 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u583	"The State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u584	We vote. They voted 107 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u585	Under art. 1 The proposal of the National Representative Borislav Veliev: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in column 3, in row I, the number (b) in column 3, in row 1.1, the number (c) in column 3, in row 1.1.4, the number (d) in column 3, in row 1.1.5, the number 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in column 3, in row III, the number (b) in column 3, in row III. 1 the number ssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (c) in column 3, in row III. 1.8 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, row 4 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, I, 1.4. is amended as follows: value 7 754 050,02 (hil. lv.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1,1, 1.5. is amended and becomes "Acts 4 193 200,02" (thousand. lv.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, I, 1.5. is amended and becomes lv.) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 Section I The following changes shall be made: - in Section I, the number - in row 1, the number supplied 16 603 786,7 is replaced by the number supplied 16 990 786,7. - in row 1.4. the number - in row 1.5. the number 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, Section II "Costs" and Section III "Budget relationships /transfers/ - nets are made the following changes are made: - in Section II, the number - in row 1, the number. "8 094 520.3" shall be replaced by the number "8 367 220.3"; - in row 1.2., the number - in row 1.2.1., the number - in row 1.4. the number - in row 4. the number - row 4.1. to be renamed to the central budget and the number - a new row of 4.1.1 shall be created with the name "To prevent, manage and overcome the consequences of disasters' with an amount of.70 000,0 "; - a new line is created..4.1.2. For economic efficiency and the revival of Northwestern Bulgaria with a sum of - in Section III, the number - in row 1, the number "size 10 503 427,8" shall be replaced by the number "size 10 611 827,8" - in row 1.2., the number - in row 1.3., the number - in row 1.3.1., the number 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 3 and para. 4 the following changes are made: - in para. 3, Section V, the number - in para. 4 Section VI, the number 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 is created a new para. 5 : The resources of the reserve under para. Section II, t. 4.1.2 shall be spent on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers as follows: 1. for a public investment program "Renaissance of Northwestern Bulgaria" up to 87 000 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for energy efficiency programmes up to 20,000 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Angel Naydenov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, create a new section V with the following content: Allied and International Security Policy - 62 080,0 The current section V becomes Section VI. Section VI becomes Section VII and the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following changes are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in row I, incomes, aids and donations, the number (b) of row I.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (c) in row 1.1 the number of the corporate tax is replaced by the number of the number of the corporate tax. (d) in row 1.2, the tax on dividends, liquidation shares and incomes of legal persons. (e) in row 1.3, "Languages on natural persons' incomes' the number (f) in row 1.4, the value added tax is replaced by the number (g) of row 1.5 (h) of row I.2 (i) in row 2.3 2. in para. 2: (a) In Section II, expenditures: - in row II, the cost is replaced by the number. "9 043 486,2" is replaced by the number "9 575 486,2" is replaced by the number "9 575 486,2" - in row 1 - in row 1.2 "Subsidi', the number..843 - in row 2 - in row 4 "Reservation for unforeseen and/or urgent costs', the number "seventy 100,0' is replaced by the number "seventy 351 100,0'; - in line 4.1 "The central budget for the prevention, management and overcoming of the consequences of disasters' is replaced by the number - create a new line II.4.4. For economic growth and statehood - 350 000 (for reconstruction of the public investment programme - Growth and sustainable development of regions) (b) in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - of line III Budgetary Relations (transfers).. net..10 436 918.9................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - in row 1 - in row 1.1.. The total number..2 485 635.9...2 712 - in row 1.8 "Bulgarian Academy of Sciences" (Bulgarian Academy of Sciences) (the number "75 396,9") is replaced by the number "80 896,9" (the number is replaced by the number "80 896,9"); - in row 1.8.1 from the Ministry of Education and Science The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) Accepts the State budget for 2015 for revenue, aid and donations as follows: It shall adopt the State budget for 2015 on expenditure, budgetary relations and contribution to the general budget of the European Union as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in respect of the implementation of Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u586	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u587	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal does not substantially change the budget balance, even with regard to the deficit, as you can see, reduces it. In other words, we offer an almost symmetrical increase in revenue and expenditure and a slight reduction in deficit by 5.9 million. lv. Our basis for proposing an increase in revenue is the attempt, suggesting that the majority should accept and be at least as ambitious in terms of revenue collection as it happened in 2014. In 2014 the collection rate as a percentage of gross domestic product increased by 0.8 percentage points and in 2015 it is intended to grow by only 0.4 percentage points. That is, we propose that at least this much effort be made in 2015 and increase by 0.8 percentage points, which represents 387 million. BGN, to be distributed as follows: 150 million lv. for an increase in excise duties and 237 million lv. for an increase in VAT. We know that changes have been prepared in the regulation concerning measuring instruments, and we hope that they will give the expected of all increases. We therefore believe that our proposal with regard to revenue is justified. We propose an increase in costs by 272.7 million. BGN, of transfers of 108 million BGN, and deficit reduction by 5.9 million lv. By proposing the increase in costs, we are trying to give a slightly more complete budget philosophy and to highlight some priorities that we have never been able to see in our proposed budget so far, namely, we are proposing that the increase in expenditure be distributed as follows: 100 million. lv. be set aside for an increase in expenditure in education. You know that 100 million. lv. in the 2014 budget, they were in the central budget for projects and programmes, structural measures in the field of education. Unfortunately, they have been reduced and are now not in the budget. And I see the Minister of Education. Mr. Minister, we want to support you in your efforts to really implement reforms, as you have rightly noted in your opinion on the budget that with your proposed budget, with your proposed resources you cannot fulfil your political or strategic commitments in the sector. With this proposal, we will give you this opportunity, so I appeal to you and you to turn to the Chamber to support the proposal to increase the resources in the field of education. Regarding the remaining costs, we offer 60 million. lv. an increase in the subsidies in the Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development. In any case, during the year, the resource allocated to agriculture will have to be increased. Our estimates are that it will be increased approximately by as much as we propose, so from the very beginning of the year we can step on a purely and directly accept such an increase. Furthermore, our proposal also concerns the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. That's 5.7 million for disabled children. I believe there is no one in this room who does not support such a proposal. Of course, since I have been elected from Northwestern Bulgaria and we have repeatedly stated that this is our priority, our next proposal concerns an investment programme for the revival of the Northwest of 87 million. lv. I believe that this vote will really show who is concerned about the economic development of Northwestern Bulgaria. There should also be a greater resource, but this, as a start, is enough, as it is more than the intended resource, namely zero. Eighty-seven million BGN for a public investment programme in the Northwest will help solve a number of problems in terms of infrastructure, in terms of creating new jobs. As you will see further, we have also offered 100 million guarantee from the Development Bank for private projects, so we combine public and private instruments. As is the plan, we offer a similar synergy between these instruments to achieve the objective, namely levelling up or at least trying to improve the situation of the Northwestern region. That's on me. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u588	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. Next statement Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u589	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In essence, today, the whole day, probably tonight and tomorrow, our debate is marked by proposals that come from different parliamentary groups and which are not particularly susceptible to in plenary, even when these are proposals from the quadruple coalition. Of course, it is a different attitude when these are proposals from the main party, in the composition of this coalition. I say this because it is not strange what is demonstrated in this Chamber, but it is not among the good characteristics of any parliament. The proposal I am making is indeed based on the amazement and puzzle, which is causing not only me the fact that we have a permanent reduction in the defence budget. Surprisingly, it is a matter of a sphere in which the policies and programmes that are bet on to be implemented through defence spending are bound by a decision of the government which is, in principle, an importer of the State Budget Bill and a decision of the National Assembly, which is essentially to vote on this State Budget Act shortly or tomorrow. It is because the budget offered for defence for 2015 does not simply not correspond to decisions of the government and parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, regardless of their compositions, it is that this budget is 110 million less than it is for 2014, in all the criticisms that sounded at the end of 2013 to our government for this budget for 2014. Well, I ask: if then you were right in your criticism that you could not implement the policies, programs and tasks of the Ministry of Defence, how can you support a budget of 110 million. lv. Less than 2014?! It's not just that. This is a budget that is in sharp contrast to the commitment, which, on behalf of Bulgaria, the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs took on at the NATO summit in Wales, in order to follow a trend of gradual increase in the defence budget, reaching 1.5, and in view by 2020. Up to 2% of gross domestic product. Certainly, outside the Defence Committee, there are few MPs who could respond to the percentage of gross domestic product allocated to the defence. And this is one of the lowest levels in order not to say the lowest level of defence spending during the entire period of Bulgaria's membership in NATO, where we have made a commitment to our partners and allies, based on which plans are being made, programs are being implemented! Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal I am making is to create a new section by analogy with the section on Bulgaria's contribution to the general budget of the European Union. There's almost a billion of them. The proposal I am making is to take over the funds provided for Bulgaria's membership in NATO, the membership imports of 24 million and the funds envisaged for international missions and operations of 38 million from the central budget. To keep the budget of the Ministry of Defence and to keep these funds at the expense of the state budget. Why and by what logic for the European Union can the contribution be separate from the central budget and Bulgaria's membership in NATO, expressed in membership, be borne by the budget of the Ministry of Defence?! But there is a member of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Defence or the Bulgarian Army is not involved in international missions and operations abroad, the Ministry of Defence's leadership is not taking the final decision for the participation of Bulgarian military contingents. The decisions are taken by the government, respectively by the National Assembly. The only difference between membership imports into NATO and the European Union is in the amount of the amounts. In one case it's 970 and several million, and in the other case it's 24 million. Therefore, by this logic, I propose to create a new section on the Union and international security policy, in which to record the funds of 62 million to be allocated from the central budget while maintaining the level of the budget for the Ministry of Defence of 954 million, to repeat the lowest level of budget for the Ministry of Defence for the entire period of Bulgaria's membership in NATO.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u590	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? I won't. Before I give the floor to Mr. Ramadan Atalay, procedure. On the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose that we adopt a decision to hold an extraordinary plenary session on 20 December 2014, Saturday, at 9.00 on the following agenda: Point one. Second vote on the 2015 State Budget Bill, sequel. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is clear, my fellow Members, that in view of the volume of the Second Reading Bill, there is no way in the time for which we have extended the plenary sitting today to run out of all proposals on the second reading report. I propose that we vote on an extraordinary meeting tomorrow at 9.00 p.m. with a point of the only extension of the second vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Please vote. They voted 123 MPs: 109, against 5, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ramadan Atali has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u591	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I wanted to make a proposal to start tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. because a world-renowned agency had conducted an analysis that the MPs after 10:00 p.m. were more productive. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u592	We need to change our rules, Mr. Atalay. According to him, we start at 9:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u593	I'm sorry. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, in relation to the budget. You have heard the Minister-in-Office Chobanov suggested the Movement for Rights and Freedoms wants us to increase the revenue of the budget by 387 million in order to help the Minister of Education by 100 million, which are so necessary. Secondly, in addition to these funds for education, we wanted funds for the subsidies in the Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development. And another very minimal part, fellow Members, 20 million. This is my proposal, which from 2008 until now, I propose with the idea of hearing. I hope this time the National Assembly, after this fatigue, after we have resolved the issue of pensions, will also hear the problem of energy efficiency. Dear colleagues, in art. 19 of the Energy Act, in 2008, we had adopted a decision that all buildings with more than 1000 sq.m. of the area, under European requirements, are subject to mandatory renovation and before being renovated, the energy audit had to pass and a technical passport was issued to them. For the following year, according to the regulations of the European Union, it was also assumed that buildings with more than 50 square meters of open area should also have renovation and renewal in terms of energy efficiency. Dear colleagues, you made one mistake three years ago. That's when I asked you about 50 million that Bulgaria had to absorb under the Energy Efficiency Programme. 2008 so far could not be used for the simple reason that the people of the floor property could not gather 100% and decide that the respective entrance and building could benefit from the European programmes and that it could be renovated and renovated. You canceled art. 19th para. 1 of this Bill, where we had accepted the state to make a certain commitment to those families and to those buildings where they have no means of living, to allocate those funds that are necessary for the energy audit. As long as we don't have an energy audit until we have technical passports, we haven't been able to absorb the 50 million that have been released under the building renovation and renovation program since 2008. There was no hearing in the previous parliaments, even in the government, where the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was involved. I couldn't convince them. Today, I would like to tell you that if energy efficiency is achieved, we will not need either the VII block of the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy and neither the two energy units of Belene. In implementing the energy efficiency of the renovation and renovation of the buildings, we will save 2000 megawatts from which Bulgaria can be free. Dear colleagues, in the past year I have seen that the Presidency has a very serious commitment and every caretaker government is committed to these programmes. At the moment, in the last meeting of the Committee on Regional Development, I understood and felt that Lilyana Pavlova was seriously involved. At least this time to start these programs, because we now have another 200 million under the Building Renewal Program. Dear colleagues, if you today, Mr. Tsvetanov, do not stop talking to each other [[People's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov spoke with MPs]] And you don't hear... Mrs. Tsacheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u594	I listen to you carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u595	... that it takes 20 million to initially give people who do not have the opportunity to do the energy audit and export of the technical passport, we cannot release the absorption not only of European programmes, even if there are American programs. Dear colleagues, energy efficiency is that part of...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u596	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u597	If I'm out of time, then thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u598	No, I've detected a very precise 30 seconds we spoke at the beginning of tomorrow's emergency session. You have 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u599	Dear colleagues, you'll run out of time too! And our time will be over! The buildings will remain unsanitary, unsanitary, because we do not provide them with these funds, which will give them the real start for energy efficiency in Bulgaria. Please, 20 million is nothing in that 20 billion that's present and out of that 387 million. I sincerely thank you for your support and energy efficiency will see the light of day.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u600	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u601	There can't be, they agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u602	There's Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u603	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, Mr Atalay, of course I have to disagree with just one point at a time. With two hands, I sign everything you said about energy efficiency. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there should be no direct link between the energy efficiency and the development of the Bulgarian energy capacities with the following economic argument: I assume that you will agree from this point of view. If we're saving energy, but if we can produce energy that's cheaper than that of our neighbors, why, ladies and gentlemen, should we not produce and not export energy? This is the main argument when discussing the options for development of the Bulgarian power plants. When I address everyone, not only Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u604	You're in replica procedure, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u605	When a country has cheap cotton, what does it do? A piece of cotton and whatever's left, it's coming out. My objection is: yes to energy efficiency, you are absolutely right, I support by all means. However, this does not necessarily mean a contraction in energy capacity. Mr. Atalay, they almost think about energy efficiency in the United States, Germany, France, Italy and other countries. What are they doing in Japan? They build nuclear reactors, expand their power plants and improve their energy efficiency, which means the two things are not mutually exclusive. That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u606	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u607	Thank you. Honourable Members, 20 million for the energy efficiency of the 387 million we want, an increase in revenue, are the funds needed to start the programmes that have been in place since 2008. 50 million and the 200 million that Minister Pavlova has provided and will start energy efficiency with. Without that $20 million, through which we have to do the energy audit, the technical passport, these programs can't go. Therefore, my request is, honourable Members, this time let us give this 20 million so that we can end up with energy efficiency. As for the line, Professor. Gechev, the energy development of Bulgaria and the Energy Strategy are another topic. When you're ready to sit down and debate, I'm ready. The movement for rights and freedoms will immediately take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u608	Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u609	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I believe that in this bill, everything is written very clearly. Anyone can read well, can decide how to vote. Plus, my personal concern is that tomorrow is Ignazhden and I'm genuinely worried about who's gonna crawl over me. [[Radio.]] So I suggest we call off the debate and move on to the vote on the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u610	Back proposal, Mr. Iankov. [[Heckling]] Please listen to what Mr. Yankov has to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u611	I believe that this law and the work of the National Assembly are extremely important for the whole 2015 There are also the policies with which he will manage the quadruple coalition or two plus two coalitions, or one plus four, so I very much ask my colleagues not to support the proposal to end the debate. I'm making a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u612	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. They voted 130 MPs: 93 against 32, abstention 5. Mrs. Manolova, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u613	Honourable Members, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, you yourselves understand that what you are doing is beyond any rules of normal parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u614	What's your procedure, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u615	This is art. 1 of the State budget. It's the macrogram... [[Replying, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u616	You're saying that? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u617	You should be ashamed! You should be ashamed, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u618	Please, don't enter into a private dialogue from where you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u619	Excuse me, there are proposals here from MPs who couldn't even justify them. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, it is also your responsibility, when there are requests from MPs, to put to the vote this procedural proposal after at least one of the parliamentary group is able to speak on these texts. [[Noise, lines, cheers.]] Indeed, what you are currently doing in plenary has not happened. [[Replying, shouting, noise, handshakes.]] Don't wave your hands! The easiest way to get out of this room is to let you take this budget. [[Replications, loud noise.]] It's the easiest! I do not believe that this will make the legitimacy of the most important document that Parliament adopts higher. You're really being irresponsible right now. I'm asking you to reconsider your behavior, because it will cause the response. [[Voice from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u620	I would like to rethink the proposal to end the debates made by Mr. Mihov. [[Reply from the National Representative Angel Naydenov.]] It's bad because it's bad silence in the hall and there's no hearing me pronounce Mihov and Mikov. You make a difference, don't you? We vote. 140 MPs voted: 96 against 37, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Debates closed. [[National Representative Yanaki Stoilov wants the floor.]] Before the vote, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Mr. Mihov, Mr. Stoilov is aware that he should be off the agenda at today's meeting. Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u621	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in my statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I will not affect the content of today's issues concerning the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, but I cannot ignore the fact that we are forced to work on these issues. It is the deprivation of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to justify its proposals. We had no intention of creating unnecessary harassment in the work of the National Assembly, but we do not think of as normal people who have made proposals and affect various arguments for increasing budget revenues, not being able to at least take the floor in the framework of the second reading procedure. Moreover, today's sitting is also important from another point of view. Today, the construction of the real-time management of the country was formed.. GERB and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms [[Applause from BSP LB]] which in fact has for its political facade the quadruple coalition of the famous parties that are included in it. The vote on the subject of the elements of the pension reform, without serious analysis and full information, is a testimony to this.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u622	He's breaking procedure. It's not an item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u623	We are preparing a proposal for the establishment of a temporary committee to examine the state of pension funds in Bulgaria and the effectiveness of the supervision control carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission. Since you make decisions before this information is clear to the Bulgarian institutions, to the whole Bulgarian society, it means that you are seeking to transfer funds to the budget of the insurance in order to release funds for other state activities, but that is not the worst.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u624	Mr. Stoilov, you're off the subject of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u625	What is worse is that you seem to be trying to cover up significant abuses and problems in the area of pension insurance in Bulgaria, which has long-term effects. Therefore, Madam President, for these reasons, our parliamentary group this evening has suspended its participation in this meeting. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you for the applause. I call on all parliamentary groups, which are not a front for this procedure and for the decisions already taken, to withdraw from this House tonight. Their remaining further means that they want to participate precisely in such a government, driven precisely by such hidden interests. Goodbye! [[Applause from BSP LB. MPs from BSP LB are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u626	Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Borislav Veliev, which is not supported by the committee. They voted 108 MPs: 16 against 54, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the committee. They voted 111 MPs: 10, against 82, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Vasil Antonov wants the floor to be re-voted.]] Revoting?! We said goodbye. Welcome. Welcome. [[Laughter and glad tidings in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u627	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable Members! The proposal that my fellow Members and I had was about a change in which we were talking about 3 million. lv. A proposal not adopted by the Budget Commission and a sum of 3 million. BGN, which we offered to go to the most holy Orthodox temple, which is outside Bulgaria, and this is the Zografski monastery. Today we listened, including with the Declaration, which was on GERB, so, in crescendo, what are the successes, what billions await us. Keep in mind that today we distribute billions, mostly you distribute them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u628	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u629	Do we have to compare the monastery to St. George's? A zographer who has begun to be built by our ancestors in the 19th century and has been completed in the 19th century, and in the last two centuries it has been completed in the same form as it is today. Should we remind in the 19th and 19th centuries what Bulgaria was like? That's what you did today. With the revoting procedure, I urge you to support our proposal, all the more so that at the temple feast, on St. George's Day. In the monastery we were representatives of four parliamentary groups, MPs who see them, including here today.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u630	I'm putting the proposal of Mr. Vassil Antonov and a group of MPs to rethink. Vote 117 MPs: 28 against 34, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, the procedure in the manner of conduct. [[National representatives of the DPS enter the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u631	Madam President, because I see that honourable Members of Parliament are in a hurry and do not want to hear arguments, do not want to hear an importer, do not want to understand... [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Please, let's listen to each other and respect each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u632	Colleagues, I call for order in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u633	We're in a hurry, I say. You don't want to hear arguments, you don't want to hear numbers that could still be in favor of the Bulgarian people. I suggest you: why don't you really introduce us to vote on the Anblock budget. You'll all save time. There won't be a problem, there won't be anything else. Give it to me like this! The whole Bulgarian people will see how democraticly you rule. Thank you. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u634	Mr. Ermenkov, I cannot respect your procedure because there are proposals in the report that are not supported by the Commission, and there is no way to vote unsupported and supported proposals. We continue with the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 121 MPs: 26, against 40, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan, which is not supported by the committee... Before that procedure in the manner of voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u635	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest a t. 4 of the proposal, namely the Public Investment Programme "Renaissance of the Northwest" to be voted separately. I appeal to all MPs from the multi-mandated electoral districts of Vidin, Montana and Vratsa to support this point, to use their influence within the parliamentary groups to gather support for it, because only joint efforts can help to remove the Northwest from the severe condition it is in. Thank you and thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u636	It is unlikely that only the MPs in these three areas would be able to cope. Welcome back for a procedural proposal, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u637	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a reverse proposal, and I am convinced that it is not necessary to vote differently from the established way, because I am sure that all MPs will support this text. Colleagues, it's really about Northwestern Bulgaria, Vidin, Vratsa and Montana...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u638	Pleven...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u639	...where the state really needs to be a little more caring and make a little more investment to improve the overall welfare of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u640	I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a separate vote on this. 4 of the proposals of the MPs Lutvi Mestan and group. They voted 123 MPs: 30, against 33, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on Mr. Lutvi Mestan's proposal and a group that the committee does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 29, against 42, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov. The way you're running things? Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u641	Madam President, as the next proposal concerns a proposal relating to the budget of the judiciary and as the member of the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Dimitar Uzunov explicitly requested access to the Chamber, please be allowed into the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u642	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to the Chamber. Vote 112 MPs: 105 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We continue with the vote. Now I have to put to the vote the proposal of the MP Angel Naydenov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 119 MPs: 29, against 70, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u643	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I take the floor to propose a re-vote, but I'll start with one question and one ambiguity. I really don't understand the logic of having a separate line in the costs envisaged for the contribution to the European Union and not wanting to create a separate line for our contribution to NATO. By this logic, in which the budget is now built, you can take this 979 million to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's going to be 1 billion. 100 million. You can safely carry this thing around as a sign of respect for the diplomacy and foreign policy of the country. According to the same logic, 24 million is the membership import to NATO. But he's not a member of the Department of Defense! It is membership import of Bulgaria! Same logic as overseas operations. They are not of the Bulgarian army, they are thanks to a decision of the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers. Why by this logic do you not want to create a separate line of policy on Union and international security? This is exactly the kind of policy that deserves targeted funding from the state budget! And you're treating it like the Department of Defense's expenses, pumping up the Ministry of Defense's budget, and you say, "We've got 1,13 with them." It's not that much! What is the logic of the Ministry of Defence to pay Bulgaria's membership imports to NATO? So please, show some sense, reshuffle, there are arguments. I haven't heard any arguments against this proposal! There is nothing wrong with supporting such a proposal, even if it comes from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u644	But she's not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u645	I'm here. That's enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u646	You don't have support from the group, Mr. Naydenov. I'm rethinking Mr. Naydenov's proposal. They voted 113 MPs: 42, against 46, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group which the committee does not support. They voted 107 MPs: 12, against 66, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Editorial of art. 1 according to the report of the same committee. We shall vote on the proposal and art. One on the committee. Vote 109 MPs: 97 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u647	Under art. 2 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The proposed changes should also be reflected in art. 1, para. 1 and 2. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Angel Naydenov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1, Section II, p. 2 The number of capital expenditures is changed by 9 000,0 and becomes..59 000,0. Construction of a building of the Court of Justice in Varna. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II, the cost of the number (b) in row II. 1 "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditures' is replaced by the number "Current expenditures'. (c) of row II. 2. "Capital expenditures' is replaced by the number "seven fifty-five0,0'; (d) of row III "Budget relationships (Transfers) " (e) in row III. 1 "Budgets' with the central budget. The number..333 000.0 " is replaced by the number..386 450.0. 2. In para. 2: (a) the number of the Supreme Judicial Council (Test Judicial Council (Test Judicial Council) is replaced by the number of the Supreme Judicial Council (Test Judicial Council), (b) the number of the Supreme Court of Cassation is replaced by the number of the Supreme Court of Cassation. (c) the number of the administrative court of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union is replaced by the number of the administrative court of the Court of Justice of the European Union. (d) the number of the Republic of Bulgaria is replaced by the number of the Republic of Bulgaria. (e) in row "Judices of the Republic of Bulgaria" (the number "Secretary of the Republic of Bulgaria") is replaced by the number "Secretary of the Republic of Bulgaria" (the number "Secretary of the Republic of Bulgaria") (the number "Secretary of the Republic of Bulgaria" (the (f) of row "National Institute of Justice" (National Institute of Justice (National Institute of Justice) "the number" (s) 3 072,0" is replaced by the number "s) "3" (s) "199,3" is replaced by the number "s" (s) "3" (s) "3" (s) '; (g) the number of the Supreme Judicial Council is replaced by the number of the Supreme Judicial Council. (h) of (The additional funds allocated to all bodies of the judiciary are for an increase of the Fund "Work salary" in the system; for payment of benefits under the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage; for building information systems and the realization of e-Justice 20 100 000 BGN in total........................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the judiciary for 2015 as follows on the attached table. (2) Determine the budgetary costs of the judiciary bodies for the year 2015, as follows, on an attached table. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2015 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2015 by the Supreme Judicial Council, as follows, on an attached table. (4) The confirmed by para. 3 maximum cost commitments and new cost obligations can be increased by up to 20 per cent by decision of the Supreme Judicial Council. (5) The Supreme Judicial Council may spend up to 5,000,0 thousand. lv. from previous years' accounts to cover the urgent costs of the judicial authorities in the event that the budgetary balance of the state budget is not violated. (6) For the year 2015, the default of the income under para. 1 shall not be covered by an additional subsidy from the central budget. (7) In the revenue from the activities of the bodies of the judiciary under para. 1 shall also include revenue from notary fees collected in accordance with Art. 1. 86, p. 3 of the Law on notaries and notary activities, the claims on the executive sheets issued for the benefit of the judicial authorities and collected by the National Revenue Agency under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, as well as the amounts of the sale of confiscated or forfeited in favour of the state property by an act of the judicial authority after deduction of the costs under art. 3, para. 12 of the National Revenue Agency Act. (8) Within one month of the promulgation of the decree on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. The Supreme Judicial Council shall present to the Council of Ministers, the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance the established budgets of the judiciary bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u648	Statements? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u649	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I take the floor on the subject of the proposal, which is respected by the Committee on Budget and Finance. This is the proposal to increase the cost of the judiciary by 13 million. I again express satisfaction with the Commission's decision, but I am obliged to share a reaction by fellow Members of the Supreme Judicial Council who are not satisfied with the revision of the proposed new para. 6, according to which in the event of non-compliance with the revenue portion set out in the budget forecast, they will not be compensated by the Republican budget accordingly. The objection is to the effect that the Law on the Judiciary is a special law which derogates from the general law, as it governs specific public relations and it should be subject to the general law. According to the provision of art. 361, para. 4 non-compliance with the budget revenue of the judiciary for the year concerned shall be at the expense of non-use of previous year's stocks and an additional subsidy from the central budget. As the Committee on Budget and Finance has adopted our proposal with this explicit clarification also with this para. 6, I confirm the proposal as we have done it. In case Mr. Uzunov decides to take an opinion on the matter, I assume you'll give him the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u650	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There are no others willing to take part in this matter. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Angel Naydenov "the committee does not support this proposal. Vote 75 MPs: 19 against 45, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] You're welcome, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u651	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! The next proposal is extremely important because it concerns not only the budget of the judiciary, but the possibility of introducing a very important part of the reform of the judiciary, namely e-Justice. There's no way we'd want the judicial reform to happen if we didn't spend enough money on it. As it turned out, colleagues from GERB with their proposal, which is actually adopted by the Budget Committee, are actually reducing the budget of the judiciary compared to what was originally proposed by the Budget and Finance Committee. And since really e-Justice will enable openness, transparency, more access for citizens to the trial, more awareness of every phase of a case, please, before holding this vote, which will also show who is the MPs, is it sincere and is it related to the reform of the judicial system, to verify the quorum, so that it is clear that this decision will be carried out in a legitimate way.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u652	The old tricks!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u653	What goes around comes around! You have deprived us of the opportunity to speak on this budget, we will not allow you to adopt the most important law of the state in the absence of a quorum. I think this is the normal behavior of an opposition party.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u654	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rositsa Yordanova Yanakieva-Costadinova - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavcho Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here While Mr. Imamov collected from the individual pages the attendees, additionally enrolled and entered the hall after reading: Ayhan Etem, Anthony Trenchev, Atanas Atanasov, Boyka Marinska, Borislav Iglev, Alexander Nenkov and Delyan Dobrev, a total of seven colleagues, which we will add to the other number. A total of 162 MPs are present in the Chamber. We have a quorum. [[Applause.]] We continue with the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 76 MPs: 10, against 48, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the committee for art. 2, in the version of the committee's report. They voted 83 MPs: 68, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Ms. Stoyanova, art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u655	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 3 and for Art. 3. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u656	Vote art. Art. 3 and Art. 4 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 70, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u657	Article 5. A proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev has been made: "Article 5 shall be amended as follows: Art. 5. (1) Adopt the budget of the President's Administration for 2015 as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission under the conditions laid down in Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u658	Statements? Mr. Enchev, come in. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u659	Mr. Chairman, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I will propose in the budget for next year three things for one purpose. The aim is to provide 13th pension for the Bulgarian pensioners, more precisely part of this pension, reducing the state subsidies for the presidency, the National Security Service and subsidies for a given vote. But on this point, I'll only talk about art. 5 which I propose to amend as follows: for the 2015 Administration of the President, as follows: expenditures 5 million. 569 thousand. lv. I don't know if you've noticed, but it's only a 500,000 discount. lv. What am I really aiming at with this discount? The new quadruple coalition proposes the presidential institution to receive a little over 6 million next year. lv. You remember in the last few days of Prof. Kang's office. The Gemini professor of constitutional law made a very generous gift to his employer, giving him an additional 900 thousand. lv. for expenses until the end of the year so that Mr. Plevneliev and Mrs. Popova could travel around the world yesterday. During the parliamentary blitzcontrol, you may remember, I asked Professor. Gliznashki why he gave nearly a million to Mr. Plevneliev instead of giving them to the young unemployed, to which he replied: "In order not to humiliate the President. " Since I do not want to humiliate the miserable Bulgarians, I propose that the presidential money for next year be reduced by the modest 500 thousand. lv. and make it five and a half million. Someone will object to me or add to me that the discount is cosmetic. I immediately reply to him. It may be cosmetic, but my goal is not to block the work of the Head of State, but to optimize his expenses and to match them with the standard of living in Bulgaria. Let's not forget something very important, and I'm sure many of us have forgotten it. Dr. Zhelyu Zhelev entered the "Dondukov" No 2 25 years ago with a team of 30 people, 20 years later the official officials of the Presidency. "Not only to Mr. Plevneliev, to go back a little in time, are 176. I can only guess about the shit clerks, but they're also paid for by our money. That's why I'm offering you, fellow Members, to get to the point. 4 The goal of providing a thirteenth pension, and not by law, but by giving to Bulgarian pensioners a donation that depends on the Prime Minister, whether he will be called Ivan Kostov, Simeon Saxe-Coburg, Boyko Borisov, Sergei Stanishev or Plamen Oresharski something that humiliates the people of the third age and by law also in the Social Security Code, and in Budget 2015 to be called a 13th pension. Another question is that this cannot be the entire pension, as the budget does not have this opportunity, will be a percentage of the pension, but not less than the so-called Christmas supplement, which is currently moving, if I am not mistaken, about 50 BGN. At the moment for this year is BGN 40. I suggest you accept this reduction with the modest 500 thousand. lv. Let's set an example to the Bulgarian people when it comes to the interests of the nation, the sick, the disadvantaged, we are the first to cut the costs of the state power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u660	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev, which the committee does not support. They voted 73 MPs: 12, against 53, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 5. Vote 71 MPs: 67 against 2, abstention 2. The importer's proposal for art. Five is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u661	Under art. 6 has a proposal from the MP Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, Section II, t. 1.2 the number In Annex 1 to para. 4th, c. 1 For the support of Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities abroad and the priests working abroad and in the field of the sum of the number of the Bulgarian Orthodox ecclesiastical municipalities, the number of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities is replaced by the amount of the subsidy being used in full to complete the repair activities of the monastery St. George Zograf in St. Gora (Aton). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Emil Dimitrov and Julian Angelov in art. 6 to provide for funding for the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad of 114 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u662	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u663	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! This proposal is made in view of the government's commitments and its programming declaration, namely to work for the severe demographic crisis and to actively work with the Bulgarian communities abroad. Therefore, we at the Patriotic Front propose that the Agency's budget be financed with 114 thousand. BGN, as was the budget for 2014 last year. I think we are all aware that little money is being spent on Bulgarians abroad, whether they are from the old communities or from the new emigration. Therefore, I call on you: support this proposal to show that the Bulgarian MPs are representatives of the Bulgarians from abroad, because this will be a vote in support of them. If the Agency's budget is indeed reduced, it will not be able to carry out its functions, not only to issue documents and certificates, but also to support various activities related to Bulgarians abroad. I think that the Bulgarian Parliament should show clearly, even with this minimum amount, because it is insufficient for the work of the Bulgarians abroad, the Bulgarians in Macedonia, the Western outskirts, Besarabia, Romania, Albania, Kosovo, Greece, and everywhere where there is a new emigration, that we think about them and will separate what is possible nowadays to be supported in their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u664	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote first the proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 77 MPs: 10, Against 34, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Emil Dimitrov and Julian Angelov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 73 MPs: 17 against 13, abstention 43. Re-vote please, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u665	Thank you. Mr President, since other Members who failed to vote have also entered, I would like to draw attention to fellow Members of the Parliament that 114 thousand. lv. They account for over 2 million. Bulgarian citizens. One hundred and fourteen thousand BGN against two billion. euros each year, which these Bulgarian citizens invest in Bulgaria in the form of money they send to their loved ones. And here we're doing that 114,000. lv. are something very against the biggest Bulgarian investor, such as Bulgarians abroad! Guys, this is really embarrassing! I therefore call on you to vote for that 114 thousand. BGN to show these fellow Bulgarians that we are thinking about them. These people bring two billion euros into the Bulgarian economy every year and you know it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u666	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I am re-voting the proposal of the representatives of the National Assembly Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Emil Dimitrov and Julian Angelov. They voted 71 MPs: 21, Against 9, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 6. Vote 74 MPs: 65 against 4, abstention 5. The text of the importer for art. Six has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u667	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 7, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u668	There's a vote coming up. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote the reported Articles 7, 8 and 9. Vote 84 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u669	Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MP Jemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u670	He's withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u671	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u672	Vote art. 10 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 86 MPs: 79, against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u673	Under art. 11 has a proposal of the MP Angel Naydenov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1, II, the number 954 588.0 to be changed to 984 153, 506; c. 1.1. The number 693 000 0 is to be changed to 755 080,0; c. 2, "Capital costs', the number 56 682.0 to be changed to 66 246, 546. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Emil Dimitrov and Julian Angelov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. In para. 1, III., 1 is amended as follows: the budget budget for the central budget (+/-) 1 002 386,9 (thousand. lv.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 2. In para. 2, p. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." Defence Policy 957 304.0 (hil. lv.). 2. Allied and International Security Policy 64 171,0 (hil. lv.) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Miho Mihov and Ianko Yankov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 11th para is In the second half of 2015, it is determined to provide additional funds for staff under para. 1, II t. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and by para. 1, II t. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance and maintenance of the equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance and maintenance of the equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance and maintenance of the equipment. lv. at the expense of other expenditure in the state budget or re-execution of revenue in the consolidated fiscal programme. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Petar Slavov, Miho Mihov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Milen Mihov and Kancho Filipov: In Article 11, paragraph 1. In para. 1: - In Section I, Income, benefits and donations, the number - In Section I, 1.1, the number - In Section II, the number - Section II, t. 11. "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current - In Section II, a new point 11.1.5 is created with the following text: War preparation and combat readiness 20 000,0 2. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: supposed insurance in the second half of the 2015 of additional funds for staff under para. 1, II, t. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. at the expense of other expenditure in the state budget and/or over-execution of revenue in the consolidated fiscal programme. (6) The positive difference between revenue, expenditure, transfers and net financing operations under the budget of the Ministry of Defence may be spent by the Office under item II. 1.1 up to 110% of the estimated costs, and the remainder by item. 11.2, as long as it does not violate the established balance of the budgetary relationship with the central budget. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u674	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u675	Thank you, Madam President. Quite briefly, colleagues, since the proposal I have made, in that article. 11, para. 5 is practically in line with the proposal of colleagues Mihov and Yankov for a new para. 5 in art. 11, I withdraw it in respect of para. 5, but I ask you to support it in the rest, as it envisions with the revenues that the Ministry of Defence will realise from the sale of old fighting equipment and property, to be able to finance the deficit that the Ministry has. In practice, the general budget is not burdened and the Ministry of Defence is given the opportunity to finance the budget, to maintain the army in good combat training and, of course, if they remain funds, to buy and new equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u676	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Angel Naydenov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 97 MPs: 21, against 61, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and a group, the Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: 14 against 15, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MPs Miho Mihov and Ianko Yankov, the Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: 19 against 49, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov, Miho Mihov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Milen Mihov and Kancho Filipov, the Commission does not support it. Mr. Slavov withdrew it in his unit, but the proposal is common anyway. They voted 97 MPs: 25, against 22, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. And now we are voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 11. We vote. Vote 101 MPs: 85 against 7, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u677	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in point II (b) in point II, point (c), point (d) of Article 4 (1), point (a) and point (d) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and point (c) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u678	He's retiring. Mr. Ivanov, what do you mean? You can also withdraw it from a place. [[Reply from the MP Stanislav Ivanov away from the microphones.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u679	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the proposals made by Mr. Tsvetanov and a group of MPs from the Political Party GERB are proposals aimed at increasing the budget of the Ministry of Interior. This is necessary, as at the moment only for salaries per feather. I would like to tell you that we have...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u680	Let them report your proposal. If you're not going to withdraw it, I'm going to stop you from sitting down, read it, and then...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u681	Finally, I will conclude by withdrawing it, but I withdraw it, because there will be changes to the Ministry of Interior Act, where our proposals will find a reflection. With regard to the fund, which is set up to purchase technical means to improve the work of the Ministry of Interior in terms of preventing road accidents, our proposals will also be accepted.. they will find a reflection next year, with the funds being spent in compliance with the Public Finance Act. Thank you. That was the offer. I withdraw all our proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u682	Thank you. Any other MPs? Report the main text.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u683	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u684	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - the Commission does not support it. They voted 97 MPs: 18, against 24, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for art. We are voting on Art. 12 12. Vote 97 MPs: 86 against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u685	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u686	We vote. Vote 99 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u687	Under art. 14 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. ♪ You're pulling it away. ♪ Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1 of row II "Costs' is replaced by "Costs' by the number "Costs' of row 1 101 380,0 "Costs' is replaced by the number "R' is replaced by the number "R' is replaced by the number "R' is replaced by the number "R' is replaced by the number "R' is 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1 (b) of row 3 "Policy in the field of social protection and equal opportunities'; The additional funds are to increase the amount of the supplement to raise the first child from 35 to 50 BGN. c) of line The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u688	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 92 MPs: 16 against 56, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 14. They voted 93 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u689	Under art. 15 The proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 the following changes are made: 1. of row II 2. of row II.2 The additional funds to be used for: the construction of the National Pediatric Hospital in the city. Sofia, building a National Centre for the Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Children with Cancer Diseases in the city of Sofia. Sofia and the construction and equipment of an invasive cardiological laboratory at the University Hospital of Bratan Shukerov in the town of Smolyan. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u690	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 97 MPs: 17 against 59, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 15 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u691	Under art. 16 supposed by the National Representative Borislav Veliev: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in column 3, in row III, the number..405, 063,6.................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) in column 3, in row III. 1 the number ss 869 089,9sssss to replace is the number S874 089,9ss; (c) in column 3, in row III.2, the number In Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 in column 2, in row 1, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. para. 1, III. 1. is amended as follows: Budget relationship with the central budget (+/-) 875 877.5 (hil. lv.) is used in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.) and in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.), and in combination with other 2. para. 2, p. 2. is amended as follows: "2." Policy on equal access to quality higher education and development of scientific potential 50 755.0 (hil. lv.) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following changes are made: - in para. 1 Section II is replaced by the number......417 - in para. 1 Section II row 1. the number..414 568.6..to be replaced by the number....514 568.6.. - in para. 1, Section III, the number - in para 1, Section III row 1. the number.. 869 089,9.................................................................................................................................................................................. - in para. 2 row 1. the number..368 019,4..to be replaced by the number....468 019,4.. - in para. 2 line "s' the number "s417 323,6' to be replaced by the number "s517 323,6'; - in para. 3 row 1. the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and the Group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the following changes are made: 1. in row II, the cost of the number of the number 417 323,6 is replaced by the number of the number 434 323,6 is replaced by the number of the number. 2. of row II.1 (the additional funds are to finance the district schools under OPHRD). 3. in row 1.2 4. of row III.1 (the additional means are to increase the single cost standard for child/student support in schools, kindergartens and extracurricular units). In Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 the following changes are made: 1. of row 1 "Bulgarian Academy of Sciences" (Bulgarian Academy of Sciences) is replaced by the number "Secretary of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences" (Bulgarian Academy of Sciences) and is replaced by the number "Secretary of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences" (Secretary of the 2. of row 15 "Sofia University" Kliment Ohridski "The number..46 906,9 " is replaced by the number..52 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Todorova: In Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 The allocated subsidy to BAS for 2015 to be increased by 5 000 thousand. BGN, reaching the amount of the subsidy for 2014, namely 77 846,90 thousand. lv. The funds are needed to ensure the implementation of the structural reform of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences: - expert opinions and developments serving the state and municipal government - 1,500 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - co-financing of the won projects - 1 000 thousand thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - working funds needed to serve the implementation of the projects - 1,500 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - restore the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria through the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in international scientific organizations, providing scientific subscription databases lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u692	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MP Borislav Velikov - the committee does not support it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u693	But I wanted the word!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u694	Well, I didn't see you, Mr. Chobanov, because your colleagues, Mr. Imamov and the other one who came out of the room, were standing there and I couldn't see you, so I closed the debate. Next time... [[Loud noise and lines.]] I will give you the opportunity to speak on your proposal. We are now voting on Mr. Borislav Veliev's proposal. Vote 68 MPs: 24, against 21, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor to speak to, but you really have colleagues standing before you, talking to you, I can't know what's going on behind the back of the MPs because I don't see you! [[Noise and lines.]] Well, you guys talk nicely to each other, but how am I supposed to know?! [[Noise and lines.]] Well, stand up, step out on the aisle, give a sign that you're willing to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u695	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your opportunity. I think it's important. Once again, I turn to my colleagues in the Chamber, that is 100 million for education. National programmes in education are at risk. The reform, which began in education, information and communication technologies, funds for the full-time organisation of work are not sufficient, funds for the transportation of students, funds for extracurricular activities. It was no accident that the Minister pointed out in his opinion: with the budget provided to me, I cannot fulfill my political commitments and make reforms. We're giving him a hand. Pass it to him. Vote that 100 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u696	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. The debate is now closed. We continue with the vote. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and the group of the Commission does not support it. They voted 92 MPs: 25, against 22, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, protected by Mr. Chobanov just now, the Commission does not support it. They voted 83 MPs: 18, against 15, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of Parliament is not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 6, against 59, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Mariana Todorova's proposal "The Commission does not support it." They voted 84 MPs: 15 against 32, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I now put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for art. 16. Vote art. 16. Vote 88 MPs: 79 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u697	Article 17? a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II, the cost of the number of the number of the number of the company (s) is replaced by the number of the company (s) of the company (s) of the company (s) of the company (s) of the company (s) of the company (b) of row II.1 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1 "Politicals in the field of conservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage' the number (b) in row 2 the policy in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education. (c) of row (the additional funds are for: Bulgarian Film Production; the National Program for Celebration of Bulgarian Cinema and Financing of Field Archaeological Studies and Financing of State Cultural Institutes of Performing Arts). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u698	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 88 MPs: 15 against 53, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 17 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 67 against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u699	Article 18 supposed by MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 the following changes are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in row I, incomes, aids and donations and in row I.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (b) of row III "Budget relationships (transfers) " (translations) " (the number..20 (c) of row III.1. The reference budget budget budget budget is the number '20 001, 9' is replaced by the number '21 001,9'; 2. in para. 2: (a) of row 1 "Politicals in the field of protection and use of the components of the environment' shall be replaced by the number b) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u700	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. Vote 75 MPs: 5 against 54, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 18, supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: 69 against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u701	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 19, 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u702	We're voting Anblok. Vote 89 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u703	Article 22 supposed by the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of Members of Parliament: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1, p. N, t. 2. "Capital expenditures" "the number" "119 962,9" is changed and becomes "127 962,9". Design highway road Ruse lv. Rehabilitation of a 10-km stretch of the road Sofia lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 the following changes are made: "1." in row II, the cost of the number 2. of row 1 (the increase is for: a major repair of part of road 5031 Galabovo "Simeonovgrad" (1 500 000 BGN.); Rehabilitation of road 5031 Galabovo); Rehabilitation of road 5504 Galabovo (25 000 000 BGN) and rehabilitation ІІ-403, section of the Suh). 3. of row 2 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u704	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] The first proposal for the report is from Mrs. Maya Manolova, Dobrin Danev and Mariana Boyadzhieva. They voted 87 MPs: for 6, against 63, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 82 MPs: 1 against 68 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for art. 22. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u705	Under art. 23 there is a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following changes shall be made: 1. in para.1 of row II, the cost is replaced by the 2. in para 2: (a) of row 1. "Agriculture and rural policy' is replaced by the number "Agriculture and rural policy'; b) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u706	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 3 against 67 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for art. 23. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u707	Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. Article 23 of the importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u708	Under art. 24 there is a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 the following changes are made: 1. of row II 2. of row II of line II of line 2 of row 2 of row 2 of row 2 of row 2 of row 2 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 1 of row 4 of row 4 of row 1 of row 1 of row 2 of row 2 of row 2 of row 2 of 3. of row 2 "Capital costs" (the number "24 465,4") is replaced by the number "39 465,4" (the increase is for the design of a new motorway terminal in the port of Varna). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u709	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. The votes of 86 MPs: 3 against 71, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 24. They voted 86 MPs: 81, against 2, abstention 3. The text of the importer for art. 24 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u710	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u711	Please vote on the text of the importer for art. 25. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The text of the importer for art. 25 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u712	Article 26 supposed by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and the group. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u713	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for art.26. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u714	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u715	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer as members from 27 to 30 inclusive. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The import texts as Articles 27 to 30 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u716	Article 31 supposed by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Row II "Costs" the number "31 616.0" is replaced by "30 940,0" is replaced by "Costs"; 2. in row III, budget relations (Transfer) The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u717	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u718	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u719	It's nice to have a voice out there, not in your head. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u720	Colleagues, the second feather, and quite seriously, from which an abbreviation can be made - 1 million - is the National Security Service, which is currently due to receive a budget of 30 million. lv. True, in the last two years, this budget has been reduced by 2 million. lv. However, agree that this is an institution that swallows wrong Bulgarian money, which, unfortunately, I have to say, has degenerated into the Pretorian Guard of Power. I will not talk about scandals, I will only talk about money, as this is the most important topic today, tonight. In order to set an example of thrift, I propose that the money for NTAC return to the 2012 level and become 30 million. BGN, i.e., I repeat, to decrease by 1 million. lv. I am referring not only to the expensive security and armored limos, but also to the godless expense of the luxury fleet of the service. In comparison, I have written it many times: in Sweden the parliament has three service cars, and the ministries only have one. I hope that the Parliamentary Friendship Group with Sweden, when it visits this Nordic country, will bring us more information on the issue of their security service. I ask: since the richest country in the world or one of the richest economy, what prevents the poorest country in the European Union from applying the Swedish model? In the following year, I will propose an official draft law on the closure of the NSO, its becoming a secondary authorising officer and its accession to the Ministry of Interior, following the example of many countries in the European Union, which could radically reduce its budget of at least five-six-seven times, but this is already the work of economists. Once again, the National Security Service represents a small army of its own armored cars, a fire department, ambulances, cooks, waiters, valet. Is that why it was the transition to replicate the U.S.A.S.A. One-to-one? And since the right side really likes to talk about cops, I want to tell them that what's currently NTAC is a classic State Security playback. The scandals that have developed in recent years and have led to the replacement of the heads of this service require radical reconstruction and, first of all, I stress, an end to financial flows. [[Heckling]] That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u721	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u722	I hope your common sense and think less of yourself, more about the interests of the people. [[Heckling]] The NSO is not obliged to protect dozens of ministers, the president, the chief of parliament and you, honored by the quadruple coalition. [[Sighs, noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u723	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u724	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! On the basis of art. 45, para. 1 sentence, second, in conjunction with para. 2 of art. 42 I propose an extension of the working time of the meeting until the item on the agenda is completed by voting. My reasons for this proposal are in the cited provisions in the following sense: The National Assembly can only assess the duration of the meetings. 2 of the provision cited. In this regard, the stronger decision we have made for an extraordinary meeting on tomorrow at 9:00. Please support my procedural proposal to extend working hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u725	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 97, Against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Others wish to speak under art. 31? I won't. Debates closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev is not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 12, against 68, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 31 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u726	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer from art. Art. 32 to Art. 36 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u727	We're voting on a block. Vote 94 MPs: 87, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u728	Under art. 37 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: 37, para. 1 of row II The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u729	There are no speeches. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the committee. Vote 97 MPs: 2 against 81 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 37 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 85 against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u730	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer from art. Art. 38, Art. 42 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u731	We vote. Vote 95 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u732	Under art. 43 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 43: Art. 43. (1) adopt the Commission's budget for public oversight of registered auditors for the year 2015, as follows: In addition, the Commission considers that there is a need for the Commission to take into account the need to ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, and that the measures provided for in this Regulation are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in particular Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u733	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 43 in its version of the committee report and the tables. Vote 92 MPs: 84, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u734	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u735	Vote art. 44. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u736	Under art. 45 has a proposal from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: 45 the following changes shall be made: - in para.1 Section II, the number - in para. 1, Section II row 1, the number - in para. 1, Section II, row 1.2, the number - in para. 1, Section II row 1.2.1. the number - in para. 1, Section III, the number..390 278,6....................................................................... - in para. 1, Section III row 1. the number - in para. 2 row 1. replace the number....333 422.0....with the number..393 422.0.. - in para. 2 line...... 366 525,3.................... 366 525,3............................ 426 525,3.................................................. - in para.3 row 1. the number The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: 45, para. 1 in rows III. and III.1 the number....390 278,6.. is replaced by the number....420 278,6.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u737	Come in for a speech, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u738	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will be brief. Our proposal is to increase the budget of the State Fund of Agriculture by 60 million, because anyhow, an update is required every year in order to be able to conduct agricultural policies freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u739	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ahmedova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the committee. They voted 89 MPs: 10, against 33, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the committee. Vote 75 MPs: 5 against 55, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 45. Vote 88 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 6. The importer's proposal for art. 45 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u740	Under art. 46 The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u741	Please vote on the proposal of the importer for art. 46. They voted 83 MPs: 79, none, abstention 4. The importer's proposal for art. 46 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u742	Under art. 47 has a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u743	Please vote on the text of the importer for art. 47. 88 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 10. The importer's proposal for art. Forty-seven is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u744	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u745	Please vote on the text of the importer for art. 48. Vote 88 MPs: 83 against 2, abstention 3. The importer's proposal for art. 48 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u746	Under art. 49 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in Annex No 4. Proposal of the National Representative Rositsa Yanakieva: In Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1 table to include row No 27 in column No 1 with the text of the Thracian companies in Bulgaria (in column No 2 of the same row) and the sum of 150 thousand. lv. in column No 3 of row No 27. The funds are necessary for the realization of research projects, publication of materials, organizing conferences and others. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group: In Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1 a new row 27 shall be created with the following content: "27." Union of Thracian Companies in Bulgaria 150.0. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which the Commission supports and is reflected in art. 1 and Annex No 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u747	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rositsa Yanakieva, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: 11 against 45, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group. Please vote on the proposal which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 5 against 58, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer art. 49. Vote 85 MPs: 68 against 5, abstention 12. The importer's proposal for art. 49 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u748	Under art. 50 has a proposal from the MP Durhan Mustafa: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments shall be made: In Burgas region: 1. Municipality of Aytos: (a) column 2 (b) in column 6 2. Municipality of Rouen: (a) column 2 (b) column 6 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Erding Hajrula: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments shall be made: In Kardzhali District, Momchilgrad Municipality: (a) in column 2 (b) in column 6 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In column 2, the number "Stolish Municipality" is replaced by the number "Stolish Municipality" and the number "Stolish Municipality" is replaced by "Stoll Municipality" and the number "Stoll City" is replaced by "Stoll City" and "Stoll City" is replaced by "Stoll City" and "Stoll City" is replaced by "Stoll City," and the number "Stoll City" is replaced by "Stoll City." The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following changes shall be made: 1. position District Blagoevgrad: - in row "Bansko', the number..5 641,4. in column 2 is replaced by the number.5 681,4............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - in row "Bell', in column 2, the number - in row "Blagoevgrad', the number s. in column 2 is replaced by the number s..28 078,1.... 905,2........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - in row "Goce Delchev', the number..13 234,6.. in column 2 is replaced by the number?13 434,6........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - in row "Gurmen', the number "six eight, six, six, six, six, six, six, six' is replaced by the number "six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, six, four, three, four, three, four, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, four, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, - in row "Cresna', in column 2, the number "Cresna' is replaced by the number "Cresna', in column 6 is replaced by the number "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by the number "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is the number "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R' is replaced by "R'. - in row "Petrich', the number..18 608,8. in column 2 is replaced by the number..18 708,8............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - the number of the number of the number of the number of the number of the Member States in column 2 is replaced by the number of the number of the Member States of the European Union, the number of the Member States of the European Union, the number of the Member States of the European Union, the number of the Member States of the European Union, the number of the European Union, the number of the European Union, the number of the European Union, the number of the European Union, the number of the European Union, the number of the European Union, the number of - in row "Sandanski', in column 2, the number "Sandanski' is replaced by the number "Sandanski', in column 6 is replaced by the number "Sandanski', in column 1 232, 7 is replaced by the number "Spanish', and the number "Spanish' is replaced by the number "Sandanski', in column 7 is replaced by the number "Sunanski', in column 6 is replaced by the number "Sunyanski' is replaced by the number "Sandanski', in column 7 is replaced by the number "Sandanski', in column 6 is replaced by the number "Sunanski' is replaced by the number "Sunanski', and the number "Sandanski' is replaced by - in row "Satovcha', the number "satvcha' is replaced by the number "satvcha' in column 2 and the number "satvcha' in column 6 is replaced by the number "Stovcha' in column 6 is replaced by the number "Stovcha'; - in row "Simitly', in column 2, the number "simitly' is replaced by the number "Simitly', the number "Simitly' in column 6 is replaced by the number "sift' and the number "240.2' in column 7 is replaced by the number "sixty-five-five-one-one-one-one-one-one'; - in row "Strumynynynis', the number "shrumynynis' is replaced by the number "shrumynynis', in column 6 is replaced by the number "shrumynynis', and the number "shrynym' in column 7 is replaced by the number "shrewymite'; - in row "Hadjidymovo', the number..4 505,7. in column 2 is replaced by the number..4 535,7..... 271,5.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - in row "Yakoruda', the number "synchronous' is replaced by the number "synchronous' in column 2 and the number "synchronous' in column 6 is replaced by the number "synchronous' in column 7 and the number "synchronous' is replaced by the number "synchronous' in column 7 and replaced by the number "synchronous' in column 7 is replaced by the number "Yakoruda' in column 6'; 2. position District Veliko Tarnovo: - in row "Polish Trumbes', the number "size 5090,3' in column 2 is replaced by the number "six 590,3' and the number "size 399,9' in column 6 is replaced by the number "size 1 819,9'; 3. position District Vidin: - in row "Belogradchik', the number - in row "Breed', the number "Brain' is replaced by the number "Brain' in column 2 and the number "Brain' is replaced by the number "Brain' in column 4 is replaced by the number "Brain'. - in row 4. Position Kyustendil District: - in row "Bobovdol', the number..3 081,3. in column 2 is replaced by the number..4 581,3. the number.305,3. in column 6 is replaced by the number..1 805,3. (The increase of funds is for reconstruction of plumbing in the square. Miner in gr. Bobovdol.) - in row "Dupnitsa', in column 2, the number "Dupnitsa' is replaced by the number "Dupnitsa', the number "Dupnitsa' in column 6 is replaced by "Dupnitsa' is replaced by the number "Dupnitsa'; (The increase of funds is for the construction of a new block of the municipal hospital "St. Ivan Rilski.) - in row "Cocherinovo', the number (The increase in funds is for asphalting the internal street network.) - in row "Kustendil', the number ".20 207,6' in column 2 is replaced by the number (The increase of funds is for completion of the project "Center for curing, long-term treatment and rehabilitation.") - the number of the row "Invested' in column 2 is replaced by the number (The increase of funds is for the replacement of plumbing in the village. Jeremiah.) - in row "Rilas', the number ".1 358,7' is replaced by the number..2 358,7'; the number..101,7' in column 6 is replaced by the number..1 101,7'; and (The increase of funds is for the project "Inner street network.") - in the row "Sapareva Banya', the number "Sapareva Banya' is replaced by the number "Sapareva Banya' in column 2 and the number "Sapareva Banya' in column 6' is replaced by "Sapareva Banya'; (The increase of funds is for the construction of a sewage treatment plant in the village. Resilovo.) 5. Position Region Montana: - in row "Berkovitsa', the number - in row "Georgi Damyanovo', the number - the number of the row......................................................................................................................................................................................... - the number of the row "Medkovets' in column 6 is replaced by the number "Medkovets'; - in row "Montana', the number "s587,0' in column 6 is replaced by the number "S588,0'; and - the number of the number of the order "Chiprevtsi' in column 6 shall be replaced by the number "170,4'; 6. Position District Pleven: - in row "Levsky', the number "six 106,5' is replaced by the number "six 106,5', the number "six 281,2' in column 6 is replaced by the number "six 281,2' and the number "sixty,5' in column 7 is replaced by the number "six 080,5'; 7. Position District Smolyan: - the number of the bank in column 2 is replaced by the number of the number of the bank in column 2 and the number of the bank in column 2 is replaced by the number of the number of the bank in column 6 is replaced by the number of the bank in column 7 and the number of the bank in column 7 is replaced by the number of the bank in column 6 is replaced by the number of the bank in column 6 and the number of the bank in column 7 is replaced by the number of the bank in column 7 is replaced by the number - the number of the number of the row "Borinos' in column 2 is replaced by the number - in row "Devin', the number..5 023,1. in column 2 is replaced by the number.023,1.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - in row "Dospat', the number - in row "Zlattograd', the number "synchronous' is replaced by the number "synchronous' and the number "synchronous' in column 6 is replaced by the number "synchronous' in column 7 is replaced by the number "synchronous' and the number "synchronous' in column 7 is replaced by the number "synchronous' in column 6 is replaced by the number "synchronous'; - in row "Madan', the number..4 932,2. in column 2 is replaced by the number..6 932,2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - in row "Sundayly', the number "Sundayly' is replaced by the number "Sundayly', in column 6, by the number "Sundayly', the number "Sundayly' is replaced by the number "Sundayly', in column "Sundayly', in column "Sundayly', in column "Sundayly' is replaced by the number "Sundayly', in column 6' is replaced by the number "Sunday', and the number "Sundayly' is replaced by "Sundayly' is replaced by the number "Sunday' is replaced by the number "Sundayly' in column 6'; - in row "Roozem', in column 2, the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied', the number "supplied' in column 6 is replaced by the number "supplied' and the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied' in column 7 is replaced by the number "supplied'; - in row "Smolyan', the number "Smolyan' in column 2 is replaced by the number "Smolyan', the number "Symbol' in column 6 is replaced by the number "S17 578,4' and the number "symbol in column 7' is replaced by the number "symbol' in column 7 is replaced by the number "symbolina' is replaced by the number "symbolina'; - in row "Czepelare', the number "six' is replaced by the number "six' and the number "six' is replaced by the number "six'; 8. position Sofia municipality: of row "Stolitsa municipality" (Stolish municipality) (in column 2) is replaced by the number "Stolish municipality" (in column 2), the number "Stolish municipality" (in column 6) is replaced by the number "Stolish municipality" (in column 6) is replaced by the number "Stolish municipality" (in column 2), the number "Stolish municipality" (in column 6) is replaced by the number "Stolish municipality" (in column 6) is replaced by the number "Stolish municipality" (in column 2) is replaced by (the additional means are to build a multifunctional sports hall in zh.k.a. Lyulin /10 000 000 BGN/ and for the construction of new kindergartens /6 000 000 BGN/). 9. position District of Sofia: - in row "Zlatitsa', the number - in row - in row "Samokov', the number "samokov', in column 2, is replaced by the number "Samokov', the number "Samokov', in column 6, is replaced by the number "Samokov', and the number "S271,0' is replaced by the number "Samokov' in column 7' is replaced by the number "Samokov', in column 6 is replaced by the number "Samokov', and the number "Samokov' in column 7 is replaced by "Samokov' is replaced by "Samokov' is replaced by "Samokov' in column 6'; 10. Position Stara Zagora: - in row - in row "Nikolaevo', the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied'; the number "supplied' in column 6 is replaced by the number "supplied'; the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied'; the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied'; 11. Position Haskovo District: - in row "Ivaylovgrad', the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied' and the number "supplied' in column 4 is replaced by the number "supplied'; - in row "Madjarovo', the number s. in column 2 is replaced by the number s. 1 392,0s. and the number "96,7s.' in column 4 is replaced by the number s..196,7s. - in row "Simeonovgrad', the number "sameonovgrad' is replaced by the number "sameonovgrad' and the number "six, six, seven' in column 4 is replaced by the number "six, six, seven'; - in row "Harmanli', the number "S7 972,3' is replaced by the number "S8 972,3' and the number "S7 975,1' in column 4 is replaced by the number "S1 975,1'; and - in row "Haskovo', the number 12. Position District Shumen: - in row "Shumen', the number "shumen' is replaced by the number "shumen' in column 2 and the number "shumen' is replaced by the number "shumen' in column 6' is replaced by the number "shumen' in column 2 and the number "shumen' is replaced by the number "shumen' in column 7' is replaced by the number "shumen' in column 6' is replaced by the number "shumen'; 13. Position Yambol region: - in row "Bolyarovo', in column 2, the number "996,1' is replaced by the number "-3' is replaced by the number "-404,0' in column 6 is replaced by the number "-515,6' and the number "-188,4' is replaced by the number "-3' is replaced by the number "-300,0' is replaced by the number "-3' is replaced by the number "-3'; - in row "Elhovo', the number..6 400,2. in column 2 is replaced by the number..6 462,7........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - in row - the number of the row "Tundja' in column 6 is replaced by the number "1 397,4'; and - the number of the row "Yambol' in column 6 is replaced by the number "Yambol' and the number "30,6' in column 7 is replaced by the number "40,0'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Nevin Hassan: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments shall be made: In Silistra region: 1. Municipality of Dulovo: (a) column 2 (b) Column 6, 2. Municipality of Glavenitsa: (a) column 2 (b) Column 6, Cost to be at the expense of higher collection of tax revenue. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rositsa Yanakieva and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 text.. Useful subsidy for capital expenditure 131 800,0 thousand. lv. to be replaced by a capital contribution of 161 500,0 thousand. lv. 2. To be performed related to c. 1 changes in the allocation of the amounts by municipalities in column 6 in the table of art. 50. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 text of the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State 2 066,835.9 thousand. The total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State is to be replaced by the total subsidy for the activities 2087,835.9 thousand. lv. 4. To be performed related to t. 3 a change in Annex 7 to art. The number 217 200,0 is replaced by 238 200,0. To be performed related to c. 3 and 4 amendments to the allocation of the subsidy by municipalities in column 2 of Annex 7. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments shall be made: In line "Slivo pole": (a) in the column Budgetary relations. 3 759,3 is replaced by 4 059,3 is replaced by 4 059,3 is replaced by the following: (b) in the column A total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State and the number supplied by the State is replaced by the number supplied by the State. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments shall be made: In line with Vetovo: (a) in the column Budgetary Relations (Budgetary Relations), the number s. 4 534,7s. is replaced by the number s. 4 (b) in the column?6. In total, the number sat 300,8s is replaced by the number sat700,8s. Costs to be at the expense of higher tax revenue collections. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u749	Statements? I won't. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Durhan Mustafa, which the Commission does not support. We vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 6, against 46, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal by the MP Erding Hajrula is not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: for 6, against 50, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov "the Commission does not support it. They voted 97 MPs: for 7, against 56, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 98 MPs: for 5, against 67, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP, Nevin Hassan, is not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 11 against 53, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal by Rositsa Yanakieva and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. Vote 88 MPs: 2 against 34, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Ferryhan Ahmedova's proposal, the Commission does not support it. They voted 98 MPs: 12, against 39, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 50 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u750	Article 51. Proposed by MP Erding Hajrula: In Annex 7 to art. 51 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In I, row Momchilgrad, column 7 "Custody" is replaced by "Mimchilgrad," column 7 "Custody" is replaced by "Mimchilgrad" is replaced by "Mimchilgrad" is replaced by "Mimchilgrad" is replaced by "Mimchilgrad" is replaced by 2. In II, row Momchilgrad, column 13, Cost to be at the expense of higher collection of tax revenue. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u751	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Erding Hajrula, not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: for 6, against 59, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 51 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: 92 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u752	The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Art. 52 to art. 54 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u753	Anblok, we vote. Vote 104 MPs: 97 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u754	Article 55. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: Art. 55 to be reported. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u755	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u756	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we offer art. 55 drop out. He simply repeats texts from the Public Finance Act, and reading it gives us the impression that there is almost no uncertainty about the budgets he represents. That is, the importers themselves are not sure that these budgets will be implemented. In order to eliminate this uncertainty, it is best for the entire article to be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u757	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs for dropping out of art. 55, the Commission does not support it. Vote 100 MPs: 8 against 63, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 55 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: 90 against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u758	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u759	We vote. They voted 93 MPs: 84, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u760	Article 57. Proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 57 the number..240.. is replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u761	I'm opening the debate. Mr. Chobanov! [[Radio in GERB and shouts: "Oooh!."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u762	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad I'm able to wake you up, as time is running out. [[Applause from GERB.]] However, the proposal is very serious. We propose to increase the quota for food vouchers by 60 million. This is a gesture to the business, which I believe even at this late hour the House will support. Thank you. [[Noise, laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u763	- What's the line? I won't. Any other comments in favour of Mr. Chobanov's proposal? I won't. The debates are closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: for 6, against 37, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 57 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 85, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u764	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer as Articles 58 to 60 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u765	We vote. Vote 96 MPs: for 86, no objection, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u766	Under art. 61 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), 1. in para. 1 the number 2. in para. 12 the words "for 2015' BGN 240 is replaced by BGN 240 for 2015 from 1 January to 30 June "BGN 252" from 1 June to 31 December "BGN 266" The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Stefan Kenov in art. 61 para. 1 is amended as follows: The average annual income referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be calculated as follows: 4 of the Family Aid Act for Children 2015 is BGN 400 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Rositsa Yanakieva in art. 61 para. 12 is amended as follows: The amount of the monthly additive referred to in Article 1 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 shall be determined on the basis of the methods set out in this Annex. 8d, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for Children 2015 is 255 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u767	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u768	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a change in art. The average monthly income referred to in Article 61 shall be related to the monthly income referred to in Article 61. 4 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2015. We offer from 350 BGN. Make it 380 leva. Our motive is that as of January 1st, the minimum wage is raised, as of July 1st, too. In our view, it is fair to raise the threshold by which family support is calculated for children.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u769	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please vote on the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 86 MPs: 10, against 43, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Stefan Kenov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 89 MPs: for 7, against 55, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Rositsa Yanakieva. The Commission does not support it. Vote 89 MPs: 3 against 35, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 61 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 80 against 5, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u770	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u771	Vote art. 62. They voted 99 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u772	Under art. 63 has a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev: Art. 63 is amended as follows: Art. 63. The annual amount of the state subsidy for one real vote received under the Law on Political Parties for 2015 is BGN 5 Realized economy to reflect in art. 1, para. 2, row 4 "Reserves for unforeseen and/or urgent costs' and the amounts proposed for the reduction to be drawn up as row 4.3. For pensioners with pensions below the poverty threshold for the same year in December 2015 for the payment of an additional pension (Christmas supplement). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u773	Statements? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u774	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! I realize that at the moment I allow myself to stir into the holy saint of the Bulgarian political elite, but I have to. The party subsidies in Bulgaria are absurd, cynical and ridiculous. This is not news. News will be if you now support my proposal or come up with another proposal with less reduction of the state subsidy for a given vote. for a vote in Bulgaria. The facts are as follows. What I am about to tell you now is from the statistics of the European Union. The poorest country in the European Union pays the taxpayers' money the most expensive party subsidies for its MPs. They are many times greater than those in a number of European countries. You'll hear them now. The average amount of the party subsidy in the European Union is 3.5 euros per vote for 2013. If you do not know, let me tell you, the richest European country Germany allocates 50 euro cents to the MP. [[(Single applause and shouts:.. ……]] Bulgaria allocates 5.5 euros. Given that the standard of living of the Germans is at least 20 times higher than the Bulgarian one, the party subsidies in Bulgaria are 10 times greater than the German ones. In Greece this year, the party subsidy has been halved and is now 60 euro cents per vote. In Italy, the government under the pressure of Grillo's party decided to gradually reduce the subsidy to its complete elimination. It was currently reduced from 4 to 2 euros. In the Republic of Macedonia the party subsidy is about 1 BGN. 11 times lower than the Bulgarian one. As you can see, the multiparty system there continues to exist. The big question is: what do our parties spend money on? And that's the big secret. In part, this secret was revealed by the former head of the Court of Auditors Mr. Valeri Dimitrov, who admitted that the state has no legal levers to control the way of money. In addition, as you know, parties are exempt from the obligation to spend their money by applying the Public Procurement Act to something extremely immoral. I don't think anyone would dare object to me. The height of the absurdity is a fact presented by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov himself, who admitted publicly that he holds the huge party subsidy of 100 million. lv. of a deposit in a bank to earn interest. Nothing illegal, of course. Except it's immoral. What will you do with this money, gentlemen and ladies of GERB?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u775	We'll give it to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u776	To tell you the truth, yes, you have to give it to the pensioners. This is going to be a really good deed, and I'm going to congratulate you on that. For 2013, the state budget paid to support the parties 45 million. lv. This is where the money can be taken for the fatal holes in the budget and first of all, of course, for the so-called thirteenth pension in Bulgaria. It's time to introduce that term if we don't want the street to introduce it. And I suggest that we do not go to the level of our Bulgarian brothers in the Republic of Macedonia, that we fall so low a lev for a vote. I propose that we accept the Italian model, and the Italian model is what I offer you 5 BGN. for a voice. I am telling you right now if you think my proposal is too radical, I would be happy to listen to your proposal. Provide an acceptable economy for you. I rely on your reason and believe that you will show it if not with a proposal for a lower subsidy for a vote, at least with your vote, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u777	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u778	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to thank Mr. Enchev for exposing one main point from our election program and I call on you to join and support the first part of his and our proposal, namely to reduce the subsidy to BGN 5 and in the second part we will, however, distinguish ourselves from him and I say that we will not support the direction in which these funds are being redirected. Let them stay as reserve in the budget. So I support this proposal and I urge you to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u779	You are proposing a separate vote on para. 1 the two sentences. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] To propose a vote, it must be stated that it supports the first sentence, but does not support the rest. It can't happen in one vote. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Simeonov's proposal for a separate vote on the first part of Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal from the second part. Voting mode. They voted 91 MPs: 25, against 11, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I vote on Mr. Enchev's whole proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 91 MPs: 18, against 38, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 63 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 81 against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u780	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u781	We vote. They voted 102 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u782	Under art. 65 has a proposal from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan in art. 65 the number "4,5' is replaced by the number "S5'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u783	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u784	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is to raise the minimum amount of the fiscal reserve from 4.5 billion to 5 billion. You know very well that government debt is increasing. You know that the fiscal reserve is seen as a buffer, as a protection, as a guarantee to creditors that we can pay off our debts. It is therefore normal when the debt itself increases, and the guarantee for it also increases. Enough debt is taken in the next year, enough will be taken this year, so that this minimum level is calmly covered. It matches the readings that were made. I suggest you support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u785	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. We're closing the debate, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group, the Commission does not support it. 88 MPs voted: 9 against 53, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 65 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u786	Under art. 66 there is a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov in art. 66 the number..24,5. is replaced by the number.23. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u787	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group, the Commission does not support it. 90 MPs voted: for no, against 57, abstention 33. [[Radio.]] The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 66 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 79 against 7, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u788	Under art. 67 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u789	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 96 MPs: 1 against 65, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 67 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 78 against 6, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u790	Under art. 68 The proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 68 the number..6,9.. is replaced by the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u791	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 97 MPs: 1 against 69, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 68 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 79 against 9, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u792	Under art. 69 there is a proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 69 drop the text as well as the International Securities and Derivatives Association's Base Agreement. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u793	I'm opening the debate. Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u794	Thank you, Madam President. Our proposal to reject this text is led by the understanding that public finances should be conservative and should not be allowed instruments that very often cannot be assessed as risk characteristics. From this point of view, such a proposal to put public debt and its management into swaps, derivatives, and so on, we do not consider it the most appropriate. Excessive expansion of qualifying debt instruments creates a risk to undertake speculative operations that are difficult to assess. Such a strategy is often seen when debt increases, but it does not always lead to good results. We therefore suggest that you judge this text very carefully and that it be removed, as its impact on public finances cannot be so easily assessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u795	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 5 against 60, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 69, supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 81 against 4, abstention 4. The text of the importer for art. 69 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u796	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 70 and 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u797	We vote on the text of the importer for Articles 70 and 71. [[Radio, noise.]] I also ask for silence in this Chamber, except to vote. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The importer's proposal for Articles 70 and 71 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u798	Proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs for a new art. 71a. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for para. 1 which is reflected in art. 100, and does not support the proposal for para. 2: During the current budget year, the Council of Ministers may approve the issuance of state guarantees under the Bulgarian Development Bank Act of 100 million. lv. to finance projects of producers from Northwestern Bulgaria, subject to state aid legislation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u799	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported part of the proposal.. The Commission does not support this part of the proposal by Mr. Mestan and a group of MPs. They voted 86 MPs: for 4, against 54, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u800	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u801	Please vote on the text of the importer for art. 72, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 4, abstention 5. The importer's proposal for art. 72 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u802	Article 73? a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 73: Art. 73. The maximum amount of the new state guarantees which can be issued in accordance with art. Art. 72, Art. 100, is 3.0 billion. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u803	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the version of the Commission for art. 73. Vote 85 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 4. The text of art. 73 in the version of the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u804	Articles 74 to 80 of the importing Commission supports the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u805	Please vote on the Anblock texts of the importer from art. Art. 74, Art. 80 included. 90 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 8. The texts of the importer as Articles 74 to 80 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u806	Under art. 81 The proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 81 drop the words of the municipalities and provide the necessary funds through optimization of the support funds of the institutions concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u807	Come in for a statement, Mr. Chobanov. [[(Noise and lines. (Laughter)]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u808	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is really serious and deserves attention. As I can see, no experience has been made in the budget towards fiscal decentralisation, which we have been talking about for so long. This is the experience we can make. The proposal reads: "State institutions that occupy municipal buildings will start to pay rent for these buildings." Which is perfectly normal when you use someone's property to pay rent. This would be an additional source of income, owned by the municipalities, because for their property, which so far is used free of charge, they will start to receive the funds necessary for their maintenance. I propose that we support this proposal and give an additional source of revenue to the municipalities that they very much need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u809	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. [[Noise and lines.]] - What's the line? If you wish to reply, Mr. Mihov, now is the time to implement it. There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 87 MPs: 15 against 40, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 81. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 10. The text of the importer for art. 81 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u810	Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 82 to Art. 85 The Commission supports the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u811	Please vote on the entries of the importer as members from 82 to 85 inclusive. Vote 92 MPs: 84, none, abstention 8. The texts of the importer as Articles 82 to 85, including, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u812	Under art. 86 The proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 86 after the word "Municipality" to be added to the national Chitalishtes, non-profit legal entities to the public benefit. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u813	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mrs. Ahmedova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u814	Dear colleagues, I know it is getting late, but I am asking you to wake up a little, because this is really very important not so much for us as the DPS, but for all community centers and non-profit entities. To make it clear, I want to read to you: Art. 86. The State Fund shall make payments for the financing of expenditure on value added tax for municipalities under approved projects under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 and 2014-2020 under the Operational Programme for the Development of the Sector Since the People's Chitalishtes and non-profit legal entities in the public benefit are separate beneficiaries, they cannot benefit in any way from the reimbursement of VAT from the State Fund of Agriculture and they fail to apply for these programmes, which is why I ask you to really support this article if you want and maintain the opinion that Chitalishtes and non-profit legal entities should be beneficiaries and to support these operational programmes. It is European money, so please support!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u815	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I am closing the debates and voting on the proposal made by the MPs Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 87 MPs: 17 against 37, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. And now I'm voting on the text of the importer for art. 86. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. The text of the importer for art. 86 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u816	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer as Articles 87 to 92, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u817	Please vote on the texts of the importer as Articles 87 to 92 inclusive. Vote 98 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 6. The texts of the importer as Articles 87 to 92 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u818	Under art. 93 The proposal of the National Representative Lutvi Mestan: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 93 to drop the text: "For the implementation of energy saving measures and The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u819	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 98 MPs: for 6, against 64, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 93. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 81, none, abstention 6. The text of the importer for art. 93 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u820	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u821	Please vote on the text of the importer for art. 94. 90 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 8. The text of the importer for art. Ninety-four has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u822	Article 95 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the text. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 95: Art. 95. (1) In case the provisions of art. 115, para. 1 and/or art. 36 of the Credit Institutions Act, at the maturity of government securities and/or interest on them, the special pledge shall be passed on to the claims on the government securities pledged by the bank to secure the holdings of the accounts of budgetary organisations. The funds shall be transferred to the account provided for the relevant bank under art. 152, para. 5 of the Public Finance Act, except in the cases under para. Two and three. (2) Upon agreement by the Minister of Finance, the funds at maturity of government securities and/or the interest on them shall be transferred to a special opening at the request of the bank under para. 1 her account in the Bulgarian National Bank and are blocked in favor of the Ministry of Finance. (3) If the bank has not made a request for the opening of the account under para. 2, the funds at maturity of government securities and/or interest on them shall be transferred at the official opening of the Bulgarian National Bank for the purpose account of the relevant bank and shall be blocked for the benefit of the Ministry of Finance. (4) For the purposes of applying art. 96, para. 10-16 of this Law and of Art. 152 of the Public Finance Act the funds of the accounts under para. 2 and 3 shall be considered as collateral under art. 152, para. 6 of the Public Finance Act. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u823	Quiet, please! Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 95. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 84, against 5, abstention 6. The Commission's editing of art. Ninety-five has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u824	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 96: Art. 96. (1) In the case of banks declared bankrupt, the funds available at the date of the bankruptcy of the bank concerned on the accounts and deposits of the budgetary entities subject to freezing under art. 152, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act, are transformed into making the Ministry of Finance and are reimbursed to the budgetary organizations in leva at the expense of the funds of the central budget in the Bulgarian National Bank, according to para. Two-seven. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be reimbursed at the expense of the central budget through the budgets of the senior authorising officers concerned by a budget, such as: 1. for the constituent budgets of the state budget to which Article applies. 15 of the Public Finance Act, a limit is laid down in the system of electronic budgetary payments for reimbursement of funds from foreign accounts and accounts from the European Union at the expense of the budgetary relationship with the central budget; 2. the recovery of the funds under para. 1 of the judiciary, social security funds, municipalities and their sub-departmental authorising officers shall be made by translating the amounts of the central budget of the budgets of the senior authorising officers concerned with a budget; 3. the recovery of the funds under para. 1 of the state universities and of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences shall be carried out by translating the funds from the budget of the relevant senior authorising officer with a budget at the expense of his budgetary relationship with the central budget and placing an additional limit in the system of electronic budgetary payments; 4. the recovery of the funds under para. 1 of the authorising officers with a budget under art. 13, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act, except for those under point (c) 3 shall be carried out from the central budget by translating the amounts to the budgets of the senior authorising officers concerned by a budget; 5. the ushers with a budget under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act shall be reimbursed to their budgets by translating the amounts of the budget of the relevant senior authorising officer with a budget at the expense of his budgetary relationship with the central budget and placing an additional limit in the system of electronic budgetary payments. (3) In case of means under para. 1 of a budgetary organisation shall be held in separate bank accounts for the European Union funds recovered under para. 2 such funds under the budget of the budgetary organisation shall be transferred to the corresponding accounts of the European Union funds to the serving banks. (4) In case of means under para. 1 of a budgetary organisation shall be held in separate bank accounts for foreign funds to be recovered under para. 2, such funds under the budget of the budgetary organisation shall be transferred to the relevant foreign funds accounts of the serving banks, unless the budgetary organisation decides to pay the obligations of those foreign funds directly from its budget, without transferring the amounts to a bank account for foreign funds. (5) The operations under para. 1, para. 2, p. 2-5, para. 3 and 4 shall be reported in the part of the financing of the budgetary balance. (6) Where necessary, payments from the budgets of the authorising officers with a budget under the State budget, social security funds and budgets under para. 2, p. 3-5 at the expense of their budget funds under para. 1 The limit in the system for electronic budgetary payments shall be fixed, updated and adjusted in accordance with the general order of art. 132, para. 2-4 of the Public Finance Act. (7) In the application of para. 2-4 amounts to be recovered may be recovered from the central budget of the budgetary organisations concerned temporary interest-free loans as well as those resulting from the application of art. 159, para. Art. 12-14, Art. 160 and 161 of the Public Finance Act obligations to the state budget of authorising officers with a budget which are not part of the state budget. (8) The bank under para. 1 provides the budgetary organisations with information on the balances of their accounts and deposits at the date of bankruptcy. This information may be provided by the bank directly to the relevant senior authorising officer with a budget, provided that it provides a list of its sub-departmental authorising officers with a budget containing the name and EIC/BULSTAT of the budgetary organisations concerned. (9) For the purposes of applying para. 1 and 8 the relevant budgetary organisation or its senior authorising officer shall specify with the bank the correct amount of the funds under para. 1 of the budgetary organisation in the case of inaccuracies, incomplete or other errors in the information under para. 8. (10) The value of the collateral transferred under the full order of the Minister of Finance under art. 152, para. 9 of the Public Finance Act is compared with the amount of the claim of the Ministry of Finance under para. 1 applying the following order: 1. the funds of the account under art. 152, para. 5 of the Public Finance Act; 2. the funds of the account or the accounts under art. 152, para. 6 of the Public Finance Act; 3. State securities under art. 152, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act; 4. State securities under art. 152, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act; 5. Long under Art. 98; 6. The collaterals under art. 152, para. 8 of the Public Finance Act. (11) In the case of an excess of the value of the collateral above the amount of the claim under para. 1 to the bankruptcy table shall be returned to the excess amount of the collateral corresponding to the excess according to the order under para. 10, and/or cash according to art. 152, para. 9 of the Public Finance Act within 10 days of the expiry of the period determined pursuant to para. 14. (12) If the value of the collateral is less than the amount of the claim under para. 1, it shall be reduced by the claim by the State participating in the insolvency proceedings of the bank as an unsecured creditor and being represented by the National Revenue Agency under art. 3, para. 1, t. 10 of the National Revenue Agency Act. (13) For the purposes of applying para. The amount of the collateral referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) shall be equal to the amount of the collateral referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 152, para. 2 - 8 of the Public Finance Act is calculated at the date of the bankruptcy of the bank, determined by the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank according to art. 152, para. 8 and 13 of the same law. (14) An act of the Council of Ministers shall set a deadline for reimbursement of the funds of the budgetary organisations under para. 1 of the central budget, which may not be longer than three months from the date of bankruptcy of the bank concerned and the manner in which the recovery of the funds takes place. (15) In the event of maturity or repayment of interest on government securities and other debt instruments which have passed under the full authority of the Minister of Finance under art. 152, para. 9 of the Public Finance Act, the amounts paid are in favour of the central budget. (16) In the event of bankruptcy of a bank and in the execution of art. 152, para. 9 of the Public Finance Act The Bulgarian National Bank: 1. hand over to the Ministry of Finance all government securities to the relevant bank in default, blocked as collateral under art. 152, para. 3 and 4 of the Public Finance Act; 2. personally transfer to the central budget the funds from the collateral referred to in art. 152, para. 5 and 6 of the Public Finance Act in full. (17) The Minister of Finance shall give instructions on the application of para. 1... 16...............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u825	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 96 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 98, against 4, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u826	Under art. The Commission supports the texts of the importer for art. 97 and 98 by importer. 97 and art. 98.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u827	We vote. Vote 113 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u828	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish art. 99: Art. 99. (1) In the order of art. 142, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act may be granted temporary interest-free loans through accounts from the European Union for the financing of payments to the budgetary organisations responsible for projects co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund of the European Union under which financial corrections are imposed. (2) The amounts to be recovered under the temporary interest-free loans under para. 1 may be intercepted in accordance with Article 1. 106 of the Public Finance Act. (3) In the case of non-refundable loans provided under para. 1 interest is due under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u829	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 99 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 113 MPs: 98 against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u830	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish art. 100: Art. 100. Within the current budget year, the Council of Ministers may approve and propose to the National Assembly issuing state guarantees under new external loan agreements of the Bulgarian Development Bank under the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, up to the currency equivalent of 1,0 billion. lv. subject to State aid legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u831	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new article. 100 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 101, against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u832	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. By § 1, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u833	We are voting on the Anblock name and § 1. Vote 110 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u834	Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs for § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. The senior authorising officers with a budget by 31 January 2015 shall submit to the Council of Ministers a reform programme in 2015 in the relevant sector, which shall also include measures to optimize staff costs up to the amount of those established under art. 4 " 47 of the Law. " The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u835	Are there any speeches on the proposal of Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs to create § 1a, which the Commission does not support? There are no speeches. I am voting on this proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 26, against 32, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u836	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 19. Under § 2 and § 3, the Commission shall support the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u837	We vote § 2 and § 3. They voted 109 MPs: 97, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u838	According to § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u839	We vote § 4. They voted 118 MPs: 106, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u840	In paragraphs 5 and 6, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u841	We are voting on paragraphs 5 and 6. They voted 106 MPs: 91, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u842	Paragraph 7 - Proposal of the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u843	We vote § 7. They voted 109 MPs: 97, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u844	Paragraph 8? a proposal of the MP Kiril Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u845	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 8. They voted 111 MPs: 99, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u846	Paragraph 9? a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 9, t. 2 cancels the letter (s), the text of the letter (s) becomes the text of the letter (s). 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u847	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 10, against 57, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 9 by importer, which becomes § 8, in the numbering of the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 106, none, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u848	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u849	We vote. Vote 120 MPs: 106, against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u850	Paragraph 11? a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 11 t. 4 is out. 5, 6 and 7 become respectively t. 4, 5 and 6. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u851	Statements? I won't. I am voting on Mikhail Mikov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 118 MPs: for 7, against 83, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 11 by importer, which becomes § 10. They voted 119 MPs: 111, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u852	Paragraph 12 "A proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 12 t. 3 is out, t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u853	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mikhail Mikov's proposal "The Commission does not support it. They voted 108 MPs: for 2, against 85, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 12 by importer, which becomes § 11. They voted 121 MPs: 110, none, abstention 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u854	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on limitation of payments in cash (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1 the word "supplier" is replaced by "suppliers." 2. Article 2 shall be inserted in Chapter 2. 4a: Art. 4a. (1) Budgetary organisations may withdraw cash from their bank accounts only for payments for which, in the specific circumstances of the activity, it is practically not possible to carry out them through payment and, exceptionally, if there are imperative objective reasons. (2) Cash-paid funds that have remained unused shall be recovered in due time from the bank accounts concerned, except in exceptional cases where there are necessary objective circumstances for their storage in cash for subsequent payments. (3) The cash collected by the budgetary organisations shall be paid in due time to their respective bank accounts. (4) Direct expenditure from the cash fund of the budgetary organisation shall be applied only exceptionally or where, due to the nature of the activity, the application of para. 1 and 3 is practically impossible. (5) The heads of the budgetary organisations shall specify and ensure the implementation of para. 1 s 4 by introducing the relevant control activities in accordance with art. 13 of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. (6) In case of non-compliance with the requirements of para. 1-5 Ministry of Finance may apply the measures under art. 132, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act. (7) The Minister of Finance shall give instructions on the application of para. 1-6.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u855	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 12 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 117 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u856	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u857	We are voting § 13 and § 14 on the report. They voted 107 MPs: 100, none, abstentioned 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u858	Proposal by the National Representative Angel Naydenov for new paragraphs: ????????????????? The Minister of Finance, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, may make changes to the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2015 on behalf of proceeds from the sale of properties and unnecessary weapons, equipment, ammunition and property reduced by the relevant costs of their realization by increasing the cost of capital expenditure for the acquisition and maintenance of weapons and equipment. ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 of the Public Finance Act (Obn., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 4 shall change and acquire the following content: For the purposes of this paragraph, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. 2. 6. Paragraph 9 shall be inserted: In the case of State aid, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u859	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Angel Naydenov's proposal to create new paragraphs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 13 against 78, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u860	Proposal by the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph: ????????????????? In the Deposit Guarantee Act in art. 18, para. 4 t. The Council of Ministers shall be replaced by the National Assembly and shall be replaced by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u861	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u862	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I know we're all tired, but this is very important. [[Noise and lines.]] First, I want you to step away from the idea that someone from the DPS is offering this thing. I would remind you that when we voted on the update of the 2014 budget, there was a very big dispute with regard to this change. It is in the Deposit Guarantee Act and in art. 18, para. 4 t. 2. Then we replaced the words of the National Assembly with the Council of Ministers and gave extraordinary powers to the Council of Ministers to decide instead of the National Assembly. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's motives were that we had to because we had to act expressly and that is how we have to do it. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, I call on your group to vote as you did then because if you are now voting backwards, be assured that I will accuse you of hypocrisy. [[Noise and disapproving lines from PF.]] I call you to reason because the limitation of the rights of the National Assembly, the delegation of rights to the Council of Ministers is something that we should not allow ourselves, because the National Assembly is the authority that must take decisions under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u863	- What's the line? I won't. Other Members of the Parliament do not wish to take part in the deliberations. We are voting on the proposal by Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: for 25, against 56, abstentions 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u864	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for new paragraphs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create new § 15, 16 and 17: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 118 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 8 words for the purposes of their independent economic activity shall be deleted. 2. Paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3. In para. 11 t. Six is canceled. 4. They're creating an al. 12 and 13: Where the revenue authorities find that a final distributor carries out sales of liquid fuels from a commercial establishment and does not have stationary underground fuel storage tanks or ground-mounted tanks, they shall immediately notify the relevant competent authorities to take action on the infringements detected. (13) Alinea 12 does not apply to sales of liquid fuels for river and sea transport purposes. § 16. In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 195, para. 6 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the words the term "juridical person" shall be added and the "state and municipalities" shall be added. 2. A t is created. 4. "4." the interest income on a loan on which no bonds are issued and on which the State or municipalities are committed. § 17. In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 37, para. 1, t. 3 shall be added at the end, with the exception of interest on bonds or other debt securities issued by the State or municipalities and admitted to trading on a regulated market in the country or in a Member State of the European Union or in another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u865	I put to the vote paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 in the version of the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u866	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. In the Law on Special Bets (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 3, para. 4 is finally added as well as with regard to the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund when providing the loans it uses.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u867	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to create a new § 18. They voted 109 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. There is a proposal from the MPs Miho Mihov and Ianko Yankov to create a new paragraph: ????????????????? The Minister of Finance, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, may make changes to the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2015 at the expense of proceeds from the sale of properties and unnecessary weapons, equipment, ammunition, and assets reduced by the relevant costs of their implementation by increasing the cost of capital expenditure for the acquisition and maintenance of weapons and equipment. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u868	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Miho Mihov and Mr. Yanko Yankov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 11 against 66, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u869	A proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs is being created new paragraphs 8, 9 and 10: ................................................................................... In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) shall be created art. 22b: supplied benefit for income not exceeding the minimum wage Art. 22b (1) Natural persons may benefit from tax relief for income not exceeding the minimum wage when both the following conditions are met: 1. the person has acquired during the year only income under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1; 2. the income acquired during the year by item. 1 shall not exceed 12 monthly minimum wages for the year concerned. (2) In income under para. 1, t. 2 shall not include additional monthly wage for acquired service and professional experience for the year concerned. (3) The tax relief under para. 1 is the amount of the income tax payable under para. 1, t. 2, except for income under para. 2 acquired during the year. (4) The circumstances and conditions under para. 1 shall be declared by the person in the annual tax return under art. 50. § 9. The Minister of Finance, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, may make changes to the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2015 on behalf of proceeds from the sale of property and unnecessary weapons, equipment, ammunition and property, reduced by the relevant costs of their realization, increasing the cost of capital expenditure for the acquisition and maintenance of arms and equipment.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • § 10. In the Public Finance Act (prom. DV, No. 15 of 15 February 2013), in art. 26 the following changes shall be made: 1. Al. 4 is amended as follows: For the purposes of this paragraph, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 5-9. 2. A new para is being created. 9. ?????????????????????? 4 shall not apply to the proceeds from the sale of property and surplus weapons, equipment, ammunition and property realised by the Ministry of Defence. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u870	Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u871	Thank you, Madam President. [[GERB lines.]] My fellow Members, yes, I know, and that is precisely why I am going to make a procedure to end the debate and look at it tomorrow, as this is a proposal... so that I can take you back to understand exactly what you have done. This was a proposal by which you have damaged the poorest people in the country by removing their tax preference in the return of taxes, arguing that this is how you will secure your budget. Because today you had the great ambition to ruin your budget by 82 million and because then the president had to do things that were not by the book, so in order to prevent this from happening again, I am making a proposal to end the debate, because we are tired enough in this House already. [[(beeping loudly: ……]] and I do not think that absolutely all MPs can take him sober, especially colleagues from the back to the right. If you think this is going to be the way to accept the state budget and actually debate on some serious and responsible issues, Madam President, and do it tonight at one and ten and thus manage, think that this will get him nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u872	A counteroffer? In essence, Mr. Alexandrov made procedure under art. 52, para. 2, p. 3 to put an end to the deliberations. Isn't that what you said? End of debate. There's no such thing... You are proposing an end to the debate, but we are not in a debate procedure, as the rapporteur must vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] We're not in debate mode, which is why I can't put him through it. We had a vote on Mr.... In fact, Mr. Mikov's text has been reported, and you have suggested that there be no debates, and it does not wish to speak... [[Replication by National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] But you didn't say that. Come over here one more time and do the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u873	No, the debate will not end. Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal the application of colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria to be discussed, discussed and voted tomorrow. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u874	Please, here are your regulations, read on which basis you want... Mr. Alexandrov! Make a procedural proposal under the Rules of Procedure. Here are your lyrics, because the same way...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u875	I'm just gonna sit here and watch the lyrics, and I can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u876	But here, I give you the Rules, look at them five points are, choose one and propose, I will duly put it to the vote. Enjoy one of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u877	Okay, fine, I'll go through them, but the point is...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u878	But now here, there's five points!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u879	Okay, so you think we should vote on this right now because it's the most important thing in the budget that we can accept? [[Reference between the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov and Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u880	Give you a break to understand what you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u881	If you'd like to take a break, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u882	Last, quote at which point you want the basis!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u883	Art. 52, para. 2, p. 1 - Abort the sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u884	Thank you. I shall put to a vote the procedural proposal made on the basis of art. 52, para. 2, p. 1 to terminate the sitting. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Vote 126 MPs: 15 against 107 abstentions 4. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u885	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I hope you really understand what we are doing, at least on this point. This is in no way moving in the right direction. If you think it's a movement for the poorest to pay the most, given that today you voted for yourself... Yes, I am doing a re-voting procedure because I do not think that this House is sufficiently aware of the importance of the texts that must be issued in full majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u886	Colleagues, please keep quiet, I can't hear Mr. Alexandrov. It's a re-voting procedure. I'm putting his motion to adjourn. Please vote. You won't be able to vote, Mr. Alexandrov! Vote 127 MPs: 19 against 107 abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Are there any speeches on the proposal of Mr. Mikov and the MPs? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u887	Thank you, Madam President. As the proposal is formulated, together with paragraphs 9 and 10, even if I wanted to support the first paragraph, there is no way, as the rest of us are trying to change the Public Finance Act, but we simply do not have that right. So there's no way I can support the app like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u888	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs 8, 9 and 10. The Commission does not support them. They voted 129 MPs: for 16, against 97, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Chukolov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u889	Madam President, I appeal to you with a warm appeal. I want you to realize what time it is right now. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I want you to understand in this Chamber what's going on. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u890	Please, no lines from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u891	Madam President, my strong appeal to you is to stop this sitting, you, sole president of the National Assembly! [[Noise and lines. Revelations: "Eeeeeee! "]] You know perfectly well that the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria in one and twenty to be accepted just like that, on a sad note, is simply unacceptable. Colleagues told me that at the moment in the chair of the National Assembly the alcohol had run out simply because the groups were distributed... [[(Radio.) Loud noise.)]] And you guys are all messed up... [[Sighs:.]] You drunks accept the National Assembly's budget, that's unacceptable! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u892	Mr. Chukolov...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u893	Don't let me get in here. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'm telling you the way it is. [[Laughter]] We have no right to do this farce. Half the plenary room is a bit of a treat, so to speak delicately. [[Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Eeeeeee! "]] Here, by reaction you can judge it when you say something... [[(Loud noise and lines. (Laughter)]] Well, they're animal here... [[Loud noise.]] You see what it's like! Alcohol doesn't forgive, as my grandfather used to say. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Madam President, my appeal to you, my appeal to you, my request to you is: stop this farce! Let's save it for tomorrow. They'll sober up the coworkers. [[noise and lines]] They'll have their wits, their minds, and they'll be able to vote adequately. This is my request to you. I hope you'll satisfy her. Thank you. [[(Loud noise and lines. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u894	If there was not a decision adopted a few minutes ago with a request for termination of the sitting, on which a request for a plenary vote was given in the reverse sense, I would have reasoned on Mr Chukolov's proposal, but since the plenary of the National Assembly has spoken, I do not believe that any single person chairing this meeting may have a stronger will than the will of the people's representation. [[Applause on the left. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u895	Proposal of the MPs Borislav Borisov and Rositsa Yanakieva for a new paragraph: ????????????????? In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) the text of the repealed Article shall be restored. 22b of the current law, namely: Art. 22b (1) Natural persons may benefit from tax relief for income not exceeding the minimum wage, where both the following conditions are met: 1. the person has acquired during the year only income under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1; 2. the income acquired during the year by item. 1 shall not exceed 12 months of minimum wages for the year concerned. (2) In income under para. 1, t. 2 shall not include additional monthly wage for acquired service and professional experience for the year concerned. (3) The tax relief under para. 1 is the amount of the income tax payable under para. 1, t. 2, except for income under para. 2 acquired during the year. (4) The circumstances and conditions under para. 1 shall be declared by the person in the annual tax return under art. 50. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u896	Statements? Mrs. Yanakieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u897	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! We are at the end of the adoption of this most important law for 2015. I believe that we really need to realise what this is about as a vote. The text on the recovery of art. 22b of the Social Security Code is clean, no other texts are attached to it. We are talking about giving opportunity to the poorest in Bulgaria - those who receive income up to 340 BGN. have the opportunity, notice, in the following financial year, to request the reimbursement of the tax credit on their monthly remuneration. I propose that we really vote on this text, which will enable people to have some albeit a small breath of air. The funds are not so much, and they will not fully affect the 2015 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u898	This proposal of the MPs Borislav Borisov and Rositsa Yanakieva literally reproduces the proposal of the MPs Mihail Mikov and a group for editing of art. 22b for § 8, which we just voted on. [[Reply from MP Petar Chobanov.]] The two texts are identical, one to one, and we have adopted a decision rejecting the offer of such a paragraph. It should not be repeated in the report, we should vote on it at the same time, but since it is later reported on precision in the transcript I will put it to a vote, but I say that this proposal has already been rejected in plenary. Voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: 24, against 66, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u899	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov and a group of MPs for a new paragraph: ????????????????? In the Defence and Armed Forces Act in art. 13 the following changes are made: 1. para. 4 is amended as follows: The contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to international operations and missions is at the expense of the expenditure part of the Ministry of Defence's budget and, where necessary, the additional costs of doing so outside those established for the current year, at the expense of the state budget, through the budget of the Ministry of Defence. 2. The previous text of para. 4 becomes para. 5. §... In the Public Finance Act (prom. DV, No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new paragraph 9 shall be created: supplied by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence shall not apply to the proceeds from the sale of property and surplus weapons, equipment, ammunition and property; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 4 is amended as follows: For the purposes of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3], laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3], laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u900	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly with whom you have just been introduced by the rapporteur. The Commission does not support it. The vote is 124 MPs: 23, against 58, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u901	Proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov for a new paragraph: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107a Labour Code is created a new para. 20 containing the following: (20) The employees working in the public administration shall be entitled to representative and uniform clothing under conditions and by order designated by the Council of Ministers for those working in the service. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u902	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Haytov's proposal, the Commission does not support it. They voted 126 MPs: 32, against 54, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u903	The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 (prom., D.V., No. ...) shall be created art. 100: Art. 100. (1) In the order of art. 142, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act may be granted temporary interest-free loans through accounts from the European Union for the financing of payments to the budgetary organisations responsible for projects co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund of the European Union under which financial corrections are imposed. (2) The amounts to be recovered under the temporary interest-free loans under para. 1 may be intercepted in accordance with Article 1. 106 of the Public Finance Act. (3) In the case of non-refundable loans provided under para. 1 interest is due under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u904	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 19 in its version of the report. They voted 123 MPs: 106, against 5, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u905	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u906	We vote § 20 on the numbering of the report in favour of § 16 by importer. They voted 122 MPs: 109, against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u907	Paragraph 17. Proposal of Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. The Act shall enter into force from 1 January 2015, with the exception of § 19, which shall enter into force from 1 December 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u908	Statements? I won't. We vote. Vote 117 MPs: 104 against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u909	Annex 1 to art. 6, para. 4. There is a proposal by Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs, namely: In Annex 1 to art. 6, para. 4th, c. 1 For the support of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities abroad and the priests working abroad in the field of the suma "Supreme" the number "Sv. Georgy Zografs in Sveta Gora (Aton). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u910	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Vasil Antonov and a company which the Commission does not support. They voted 115 MPs: 17 against 65, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of Annex No 1 to the importer. We are voting on Annex 1. They voted 115 MPs: 99, against 8, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u911	Annex 2 to art. 11, para. 4. Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex 2 and Annex 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u912	We are voting on both applications. They voted 123 MPs: 109, against 6, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u913	Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 4 which is tabular on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u914	Statements? I won't. I am voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of Annex 4 according to the Commission report. The same proposal is tabular and cannot be read to you, but is essentially a version of the Commission. We are voting for Annex 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 109, against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u915	Annex 5 to art. 49, para. 2, Annex 6 to art. 50, Annex No 7 to art. 51, Annex No 8 to art. 54, Annex No 9 to art. 82, para. One, they're all imported. The Commission shall support the text of importers for Annexes 5 to 9 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u916	The Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov wants the floor. [[GRUNTING BY GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u917	Wait till we vote! Or he wants the floor before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u918	The Minister can ask for the floor at any time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u919	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll take the floor before you vote, because then you'll be in a hurry to leave. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I just wanted to say a few words to you in a nutshell. Today we focused on the debate on numbers and there is a risk of losing meaning.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u920	He's lost.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u921	The point of drawing up this government was to bring the state back within normality, stability and predictability. I thank all the MPs who are in plenary right now. I also thank all parliamentary parties. I also thank the parties that formed the government because it guarantees stability. Behind the philosophy of the budget are not just numbers. It guarantees not only the unblocking of EU funds. It guarantees not only the maximum possible social balance in society. It gives perspective, and perspective is important because times in the world are difficult. There is a perspective and state functions will be implemented in 2015, perhaps with less resources, but this means more effectively. Maybe not everyone is satisfied, but in this Chamber, in order to give, we must take from this same society, from all of us. I have no claim that this is a good budget. This is the possible budget and gets better, it's up to all of us. I also thank those parties that are currently absent from the plenary. Sometimes, if you're not convinced of your arguments, that's a position. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-12-19.u922	There are no statements on the apps unless some other minister wants to tell us something. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I'm putting an anbloc to the vote apps with numbers from 5 to 9 including. They voted 116 MPs: 106, against 4, abstention 6. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] The proposal was adopted and adopted at second reading the State Budget Act for 2015. Since, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly for extraordinary plenary sitting on Saturday, 20 December 2014, with an opening hour of 9.00 is with one single point, the second vote of the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 will continue, and this point I have just said that we have already voted because of the lack of subject will not be held such an extraordinary meeting. [[crowd cheering and cheering:]] In accordance with art. 43, para. 2 The National Assembly is on vacation from 22 December, Monday, until 10 January 2015. On the basis of art. 44, para. 1 I call the National Assembly to a session starting on the first Wednesday following the expiry of the calendar days of the declared vacation. 9:00 a.m. by program that will be announced in advance. On 12 and 13 January the meetings of the Standing Committees. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[(Ringing. (Applause)]]
