ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you are aware that the weekly programme has been exhausted in its legislative part. Therefore, on the basis of art. 49, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I will make proposals which will accordingly be put to the vote by the Parliamentary Assembly to include items on the agenda. However, earlier by Decision No 1370-NS of 12 November 2014 Central Election Commission on the basis of art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code has declared as elected Member of Parliament in the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region of Sofia, Hristo Georgiev Gajev, Esc............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please, the Quaestors, invite Mr. Gajev to the plenary room for the taking of the oath. Mr. Gazhev, come to the stands and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u3	Congratulations! [[Congratulations newly elected MP.]] With a letter in my letter. No 45400-344 of 12 November 2014 submitted by Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs is requested on the basis of art. 107 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to hold a hearing of the Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov and the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Sotir Tsatsarov. The hearing is about Philip Zlatanov's stolen notebook. It is explicitly requested on the basis of art. 49, para. 5 the hearing shall be included as a point in the National Assembly's programme. The request is for item one for Thursday, but for the reason that we did not have a plenary sitting yesterday, I accept that the request for inclusion is being maintained as point one in today's plenary session. Before putting it to the vote, I must make the following clarification. In accordance with art. 8 of the Constitution, state power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. In this context and on this basis, the Constitutional Court ruled by its judgment No 5 of 1995 in Constitutional Case 3 of the same year, where it notes that in view of the separation of the authorities within the meaning of art. 8 of the Constitution in the circle of persons in respect of whom the National Assembly or the relevant committee may oblige an official to appear and answer questions, the President, the Vice President, the Constitutional Judges and all magistrates should be dismissed. Therefore, a decision which, as a practice, is also followed in subsequent ones of the National Assembly, I believe that, although requested by the Prosecutor General, I would violate the Constitution if I were to offer you a similar item on the agenda. I therefore propose to you as the first item on today's agenda regarding this request to hold a hearing of the Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov, with the hearing concerning the stolen notebook of Philip Zlatanov. Please, voting mode. Vote 186 MPs: 106, against 74, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u4	Mrs. Chairman, I'd like you to re-vote. I think it has not become clear in this House whether we are voting on the proposal not to include the Prosecutor General's hearing or the motion against the point in principle. So I'm asking for a re-vote so the coworkers can navigate. [[Laughter and shouts: "E-e-e-e-e! on the left."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u5	Mr. Lazarov, I think I have made it very clear that I put to the vote the proposal to include the hearing of the Minister of Interior Mr. Vuchkov as the first item. It's a re-vote. Vote 186 MPs: 94, against 81, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u6	Madam President, given the huge interest involved in this matter, we at the attack want to propose that the hearing be transmitted on national television and national radio. [[(Noise and lines, calls from BSP LB: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u7	Is there a reverse offer? I won't. I put the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 185 MPs: 124 against 36, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. On the basis of art. 49, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure I propose that the proposal of the MP Mr. Miho Mihov be included as a second point to fill in the composition of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance - the election of Mr. Kiril Petrov Tsochev as a member of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance, I explain, in relation to the departure of Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, who was a member of this Commission. I put to the vote the proposal that this be point two in today's programme. Vote 173 MPs: 168 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. And the final proposal for inclusion in our legislative programme today as point 3 is the application registered with me. No 420-00-10 of 12 November 2014 to associate professor, Dr. Orhan Ahmedov Ismailov, member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. I shall put to the vote the inclusion of this application for early termination of participation in this committee. Vote 169 MPs: 143, against 10, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Honourable MPs, at the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, its members united around the idea of holding an extraordinary plenary session in relation to the drafts submitted by the Council of Ministers: amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision on the basis of art. 44, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 18 November 2014, Tuesday, at 11:00 on the following agenda: 1.First vote on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014, importing the Council of Ministers. 2.First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, importing the Council of Ministers. Voting mode, please. Vote 185 MPs: 173 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Two messages. I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 12 November 2014 have received seven requests from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, with whom it is proposed to the National Assembly to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions, respectively to continue the criminal proceedings, in relation to the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Dimitrov, Iliya Iliev and Volen Siderov. By my letters to the Members of the National Assembly, the same have been notified of the requests received and given the opportunity to get acquainted with them together with the attached documents. In this regard, six written consents from the MPs have been received so far, as follows: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, three copies, Georgi Svilenski, Ilija Iliev and Dimitar Dimitrov, on the requests from the Prosecutor General. At the same time, the same were sent by letters to the Prosecutor General, with which he was informed of the consents of the Members of the National Assembly, applying and certified copies of them. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence informs the National Assembly that by his order he has authorised the sending of a formation by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to the servicemen for participation in joint preparation, teaching of a training polygon The provisions of the law shall be notified to the relevant competent State authorities. Following the election of the Permanent Committees of the National Assembly, the notification will be made available to the relevant portfolio committee. Quaestors, is Minister Vuchkov in the building? We're expecting him any minute now. As soon as he gets in, I want him in the courtroom. While we are waiting for Minister Vuchkov for his hearing, I suggest we vote on the proposal. COMPLETION OF THE CONCESSION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR BUDGET AND FINANCIALS. Before that, I present to you a draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly R-E-S-E: He elected Kiril Petrov Tsochev as a member of the Temporary Committee on Budget and Finance. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I can't see. I hereby put to the vote the draft decision proposed to you. Vote 162 MPs: 156, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I've been informed that Minister Vuchkov is on his way. I suggest a t. Assoc. Dr. Orhan Ahmedov Ismailov for termination of his term of office as a member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, at his request, to vote on him. Order No KV-411 of 11 November 2014 of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, with which on the basis of Art. 108, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 19a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 23, para. 6 of the Law on Administration appoints Orhan Ahmedov Ismailov as Deputy Minister of Defence, with a basic monthly salary indicated. In this regard, I suggest to your attention: A service project DECISION terminating the powers of a member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 7, p. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army... The Financial Supervision Commission HAS DECIDED Ends the powers of Orhan Ahmedov Ismailov as a member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the draft decision presented to you? I can't see. I have made a mistake in reading the grounds, so I repeat them in the context of the decision: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 7, p. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army HAS DECIDED Ends the powers of Orhan Ahmedov Ismailov as a member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Voting mode, please. Vote 159 MPs: 141, Against 9, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: HEARING THE MINISTER OF INTERNAL WORKS VESELIN VUCHKOV WITH REGARD TO THE REFUNDED TEPHTER OF FILIPP GOLDANOV. I remind the Members of the National Assembly that the same is for a reason art. 107 of the Rules. Paragraph 2 says that when the hearing is initiated, the proposer shall make a presentation of the questions within five minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly on the issues subject to the hearing within 10 minutes, Minister Vuchkov. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, and the MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each within two minutes. The hearing person shall answer after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall be entitled to express their views on the response of the persons heard within five minutes. On behalf of the importers, Mrs. Tasheva will develop the issues to Minister Vuchkov. Please turn on the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in April 2013, Deputy Prosecutor General Borislav Sarafov and Prosecutor Roman Vassilev gave a press conference with slides to which they displayed the content of pages of the Commission's reporters for establishing and avoiding a conflict of interest, Philip Zlatanov, from which it became clear that the Commission was used as a bat against political opponents and internal party dissidents of the ruling GERB party in the previous term and that this was done under the instructions of a person with initials I.F., which in turn acted on the instructions of individuals with initials B.B. And C.C. After the scandal broke out, which, by the way, the two accusers said it was nothing more than a trade with influence, Chapter twenty-sixth of the Penal Code, MP from GERB Party with initials I.F. He had to leave both parliament and the party so he wouldn't stand in the spotlight and irritate the people. A little later, if I use the vocabulary of the I.F. in question. This is the one to get hurt, another to be delayed, another to be accused of having a conflict of interest without any, and President Plevneliev to be protected, although there is a signal of conflict of interest against him, so, after all this scandal, both prosecutors are hit. This is the case with the prosecution, so the monitoring prosecutor is asking for the President of the Committee on the avoidance and establishment of conflict of interest for a conditional sentence. Thank God, the first instance washes the face of the Bulgarian judiciary [[GERB noise and lines]] , giving him an effective sentence of three and a half years for hiding a signal of conflict of interest with President Rosen Plevneliev and at the same time came up with a conflict of interest decision of his councilwoman Dimana Rankova, although he did not warn her about it. Of course, the defense appealed because no persons were questioned, initialized and already identified in the public mind. The defense also wants a handwriting analysis and a graphical analysis of the originals of the two notebooks of the black and red, of the Philip Zlatanov in question, whose aim is to see whether the notes are led by the same person and whether this person is the defendant. On September 25th, it seems to me at the end of September, the appeals court starts.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u9	What's the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u10	The defense wants, first, the graphical expertise, and, second, to question the persons Iskra Fidosova, Boyko Borisov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Rosen Plevneliev and Tsetska Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u11	Huh?!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u12	The next case is scheduled on October 16th.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u13	You got one minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u14	I know I have one minute. On September 30th, with an investigative decree, the notebooks were presented to a criminalist, Stefan Benchev, from the Institute of Crime of the Ministry of the Interior, to make the expertise. On October 16, he didn't do it. We don't have any forensics. Therefore, the cases are postponed until November 20th. On October 29th or 30th, an investigator required them from him. On November 5th he goes to wear them, but on the boulevard of Montevideo, that is, close to the investigation, they somehow disappear. He did not immediately warn the investigation that the file with all the documents had disappeared plus the notebooks in the case in question. Moreover, the CSI is not going to inform the police that he was the victim of a theft. He only goes the next day and says his bag is missing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u15	Ask Mr. Wuchkov the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u16	I ask the question to Minister Vuchkov: first, what investigative actions have been taken against the person Stefan Benchev, which clearly acts in the interest of the five persons I have listed? If the notebooks weren't lost, the danger of facing their former employee on November 20th would be quite real to them. We have an interest here in thwarting the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. For an answer there is the word Minister Vuchkov. [[National representatives of GERB want a procedure in the manner of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I will try to respond quite correctly and precisely with regard to the request for a hearing, formulated just now, following strictly legal and constitutionally defined powers from the point of view only and only as head of the interior ministry, because for better or for worse, the Ministry of Interior cannot answer the most important and major questions on this extremely interesting case, which clearly represents an outstanding public interest, including in the last 4-5 days. So what I could do in front of you here is share only the information that is available in the Interior Ministry, mostly the chronology of these few hours and days from the beginning of the week and, basically, what has happened as an application for an assault on a car in the Sixth District Police Department of the Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs. The question you asked just now, Mrs. Tasheva, I can hardly combine with my constitutional powers in the sense of answering that. I think that such a question should be discussed a little later, during parliamentary control, what investigative actions have been taken against a specific individual, why expertise has been appointed in this case. Just because the investigation on which the expert proved to be material evidence is not being conducted by the Interior Ministry. I would like to make an important adjustment that the expert in contradiction with what you just said, Mr. Benchev. I think this has been clarified in his numerous public appearances over the last few days. When I found out about this case on Monday late in the evening from a media publication, on Tuesday morning with a media participation in the National Television, the first thing I immediately wanted to clarify, calling the Director of the NICC, this is the Institute of Criminalism and Criminology at the Interior Ministry, is whether this is an employee of the Ministry of Interior, because also employees of the Ministry of Interior, especially those who work in the NIKK, can be represented in the quality of individuals, not only in criminal cases, but in all kinds of cases, only there they appear in their role not of employees of the Ministry of Interior, but in their role as individuals who have special knowledge in the field of science, art or technology. In this case it turned out that this is definite, then because the Director of the NIK to the Ministry of Interior knows Mr. Benchev because they were colleagues, this person was a longtime employee of the Interior Ministry. In 2007, he left his State Service in the Ministry of Interior because he acquired the right to a pension due to the age of 60. That's an important clarification. In this sense, this is not an employee of the interior ministry. I think this is a good thing in this case, in order for the Ministry of Interior to protect itself from any speculation on the subject. I will read very briefly to you, I will not take up much time, a summary of what was given to me last night by the Sixth District Police Department of the SDVR. I can only read it. I cannot speak for myself because the information on the specific application, as well as on the pre-trial proceedings, the legal proceedings conducted, the information on the cases under way about the notorious notebooks "Zlatanov" is not contained in the Interior Ministry. It is contained in various units of the judicial system of prosecution, investigation, court where there are pending criminal proceedings. On 5 November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 November 2015 to 25 November 2020 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). I read the reference from the Sixth Regional Management of the SVR at 4:20 p.m. in the operational part 112 by Stefan Georgiev Benchev with the corresponding CNN, which says he found that one of the tires of his car was flat. Then he left the car parked on the street by the bus stop, where he wrote the Buzema, and went to look for a vulcanizer to repair his flat tire. After returning he found that the back seat of the car lacks a bag with documents and the sum of about 200 leva. [[Laughter in BSP LB]] . Benchev is asked an additional supplementary supplementary question: Benchev was invited to the Sixth Police Department to make a statement in writing about what happened, after which he stated that he could not leave his car with a flat tire, should call a repatrac and will come to the Sixth Police Department on the next day "November 6th." In the conversation, I quote the consultation from the Sixth Police Department, there is no mention of missing physical evidence, with its duration being 3 minutes and 47 seconds. For the case on 6 November 2014 at the Sixth Police Department of the SDVR Stefan Benchev submitted an application with the respective EGN. No 49048/2014, according to the description of the Sixth Police Department, in writing the report states that the amount of 180 leva is missing, notebooks type of the calendars, personal documents, documents for the car with the relevant state control number, experts of the SRS (I guess this is the abbreviation of the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office) and a flash drive. On November 10th, Monday, the Sixth Police Department received a fax from the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office with a reg. No 29 of 10 November, requiring a copy of the above file, as well as a reference to the operational search activities carried out so far to identify the perpetrator. In the fax, there is no reason to quote the reference of the head of the Sixth Police Department for his request and no additional information has been provided. The documents requested were made available on the same day. On 11 November, we are all witness to this, including myself, the news that in the case of the theft cited above is criminal evidence in a case of very high public interest. The documents on the file were immediately reported to the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office (SRS) and with the order of the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office on 11 November a pre-trial procedure was initiated with the relevant application number for the description of the Sixth Surgery SDVR with the relevant prosecutor's number against an unknown perpetrator for a crime committed under art. 194, para. 1 of the Penal Code. This is the unqualified, basic composition of the theft of other people's moving goods. On 12 November 2014, a letter was received from the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, I repeat, on 12 November a letter from the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office requesting the pre-trial materials with this application number on the description of the Sixth Police Department. The pre-trial proceedings were brought by hand to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office and, upon its surrender, the city prosecutor verbally ordered that any operational and search activities in the specific pre-trial proceedings be suspended until the establishment of an internal organisation. I can assure you that at present the pre-trial criminal proceedings regarding the theft of Mr. Benchev's car is located in the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u19	We are moving on to the possibility of MPs from the parliamentary groups asking questions to the hearing person. On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group? There aren't any. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u20	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand the lullaby with which the discussion goes. I also understand the reluctance of colleagues from GERB to come to such a hearing at all, but nevertheless I believe that we owe both as a national representation and as a minister, you, Minister, owe some explanation to the Bulgarian society. You have given one answer purely clerical, but I think there is also a political moment in all of this. I believe you will not deny that this issue has also been discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, so the answer should hardly be expressed in just a pure statistic, mechanically presented to the MPs. I have a few specific questions for you: Are there any copies of the notebook in question on any other carrier? Does the Ministry of Interior have access to these transcripts? I would like to ask what is the responsibility of the expert in this case? One question: Do you personally know the person in question? Why is the gentleman in question still at large? He walks all over the TV and gives conflicting explanations. By the way, he gave a slightly different explanation than what you read about what forced him to get away from the car, but I will not go into these details. Do you foresee a lie detector procedure with the person in question? After all, why does the Minister of Interior learn from the media what happened to one of the most discuted documents in the country? With regard to chronology, do you think it is normal for the prosecution to learn four or five days after the incident?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u21	Time's up, Mr. Zafirov. You have one question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u22	I'm gonna use one more question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u23	So far, it's at least two or three. For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u24	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, even if I have a great desire to answer some of these questions, I cannot, because I have no information. I couldn't possibly have one. You asked a specific question............................... were any copies contained in the book in question..................................................................... I wouldn't know. This is a matter of specific pre-trial proceedings. There is no way for the Interior Minister to know about specific pre-trial proceedings, by the way, there are over 200,000 in the Ministry of Interior per year, whether there are any copies or not. This is really something that I want to say to you, not just me, as a minister, every Home Secretary. What was there, what wasn't there, I don't know, because the Ministry of Interior wasn't conducting an investigation into these books. As I told you earlier, these investigations are entirely in the patrimony of the judiciary. As far as I know from the media, some of them are in a judicial phase, some of them are in a pre-trial phase. Do I know the expert face? Frankly, when I saw him on TV yesterday, I have no memory of ever working with him because I was an investigator, but that was 18-20 years ago. I've been an investigator for about two years, and I've recruited numerous experts. I have no recollection of using it as an expert face. I can honestly tell you that I don't know that face. If I've ever really appointed an expert in my role as an investigator, that's another matter now, but I really don't know him or any immediate contact. Why wasn't he questioned? I'm telling you again, I set up the timeline, all the pretrial materials are at the Sofia City Attorney's Office. From statements at the Supreme Judicial Council and in the media, I understand that pre-trial proceedings will take place in connection with the notorious theft, not even by an investigative officer, even if I understand it, not by an investigator, personally by a relevant prosecutor. He will carry out immediately the investigative actions, he will assess the monitoring prosecutor from a district or city prosecution, within an objective, comprehensive and full investigation, which investigative actions will be carried out. I cannot say here whether the Ministry of Interior officials will be questioned as witnesses or in other qualities, whether the Mr. Benchev in question will be questioned and in what capacity, nor is it my role to make accusations, nor to make suggestions. I'm also going to ask you to protect the interior ministry from any preliminary interpretations of this matter. Have the D.A. run that background check. She's out of the Ministry of Interior, and thank God she is, to find out what the truth is about this case. Will this face be invited to a lie detector? I can't answer you any other way than before. The prosecution's assessment is what investigative actions should be carried out. By the way, such investigative action is a lie detector in Bulgarian procedural law, and in almost the whole world there is no such thing. Why do I know the media? I answered at the very beginning. Here is a very important question: whether the Interior Ministry, whether the DVR, in particular the Sixth Police Department, until the information came out on Monday night, if I am not mistaken, in the media space, knew that in this particular case with the applicant Mr. Benchev this is about these physical evidences. This is a key issue. So far, from all the information I have on phone 112, the consultation of the Sixth Police Department and the SDVR, I understand that the Ministry of Interior so far did not know at all, they were not informed that this is the notebook of Zlatanov. And I have no reason not to trust my colleagues at 112, the SDSVR and the Sixth Police Department. I just have no reason not to trust them, and I really do beg you not to interpret any information in advance. These are the answers to the questions I've been asked so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u25	Are there any questions on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. Next up is the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group? No questions asked. The next largest parliamentary group is that of the Patriotic Front. I won't. Next up is the BBC group? No questions asked. The attack group is in order. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u26	Mr. Minister, after consulting and consulting forensics, I can assure you that popping a tire, as they claim, is a classic crime scheme to remove the driver. It can be faked very easily. We don't understand what this criminalist is, retired at this point, who, first of all, leaves such valuable evidence unsupervised. [[IN ENGLISH]] Second, it slows down to signal...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u27	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u28	Third, even on the 6th, when he goes to the Sixth Precinct, he doesn't say he was the victim of a theft, and the police don't go looking for them because of it. In other words, he acts as if he were deliberately or not obstructing justice. My question is: who ordered the expertise to be done by this pensioner, since we have an entire Institute of Forensics? Who authorized Zlatanov's notebooks to be taken out and given into the hands of a person who is by no means the greatest capacity, nor the most loyal specialist in this area?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u29	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Tasheva! I cannot know, as Minister of Interior for specific pre-trial proceedings, not led by employees of the Ministry of Interior, but by the prosecution and investigation, who appointed the specific expert who has special knowledge in the relevant areas of the PPC. I can only interpret to you publications from the media you know, from yesterday, from that day, but it's just a guess. I don't want to sink into a swamp of confusion. As far as I know, there was a trial that was in a judicial phase, from it at the beginning of the year, separate materials, which led to a court proceedings and probably where the expert was appointed. But why was it done? Whose judgment is it? Why was this particular expert chosen, why wasn't it given to some officer of the Ministry of Interior at the Institute of Forensics and Criminology, I just don't have an answer to that question. But really, however curious, interesting and indicative this case is, I would like, if possible, really briefly to say a few words on the big issue of forensic expertise. As always, when a very big screw-up happens, we think of a very big problem. If we try to solve it in advance... Last year, I had an up-to-date question with the Minister of Justice, if you recall, on the subject of judicial expertise, and as Deputy Minister, I have repeatedly discussed it, including by letters to the Supreme Judicial Council. There's a huge mess with forensics. This is known by all practicing lawyers, and not only by the physical evidence which is provided to property persons. It is about the administration of the entire process... how to become an expert, who meets the requirements, who lists them on the respective district courts, who pays the costs? Can the Ministry of Interior pay 6 million? lv. A year for expertise? Who's watching out for the qualifications? Shouldn't there be a separate feather in the state budget on the subject of judicial expertise and so on. Suddenly, when it becomes such a big screw-up, we think of this very big problem. So I hope from this particular case, which I also want very quickly to clarify, to make changes to legislation and to the organisation, so that there will be no more such screw-ups on the subject of judicial expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u31	And now a question from the ABB Parliamentary Group. No question. Moving on to the second round of questions. Mr. Lazarov, come in from the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u32	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! This topic has been discussed since last year. There was a special committee of inquiry that took a long time to deal with it. From the report's and from the debate in this Committee, what became clear as an objective fact is that the members of the Committee of Research had not been familiar with the book or notebooks in question. They hadn't seen them. Whether it's one, two, three or four, I don't remember, I wasn't a member of this Committee of Polls, but it was still very much debated then, public suggestion was made. Meanwhile, according to information from the media, pre-trial proceedings, one of them has passed in a judicial phase, there is also a conviction. I do not know whether in the reasons, the court has pronounced and discussed the notebook, or other facts and circumstances of the Commission's activity, as to what I am aware of the reasons for delaying or stopping files. I think it was rather referring to the second facts and circumstances and that there was another pre-trial procedure. Now, on the occasion of the theft or withdrawal of this physical evidence or this physical evidence, two notebooks, we understand from the media, again some people want to make suggestions in society, and at the beginning of the hardly formed responsible government at a difficult time of the Bulgarian state in the need for an update of the budget, in the absence of money in the Health Insurance Fund, in the case of the suspended funds. Who is interested in taking advantage of this fact? On their questions you will recognize them, dear colleagues. Instead of dealing with the important, current issues in society! Two weeks ago it snowed, no money for snow-cleaning, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u33	What's the question, we couldn't figure it out?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u34	Yeah, yeah, I'll ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u35	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u36	He'll be normal. My question, Minister, is: do you have any information on what type of tyre thefts in this region where this incident occurred? Are such thefts such a way to steal items from the car when a tire bursts, and if you have information, did the penetration occur by breaking glass or in any other way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u37	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Lazarov! I do not have similar information about types of crimes by individual chapters of the Penal Code on a specific territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and even [[single laugh at GERB]] in the capital city are they common, what is the intensity, what is the mechanism of committing the crime? I couldn't possibly have her. Now I had to imagine the political cabinet at 9:30. Unfortunately, all the media were there and left, probably disappointed by my behavior. But I have to report here. There I wanted to share with the media explicitly, and now I will share it with you that I will push a clear line between political and professional leadership. When it comes to specific crimes, specific manifestations, I will ask professional leadership to build a relevant media and strategy and to give more information to the public. I have a lot of other work to do with the implementation of legislative changes, regulatory changes and policies. In this particular case, however, Mr. Lazarov, I have explicitly ordered the Director of the SVR to create such an organization as to provide absolutely complete assistance to the Prosecutor's Office, which conducts an investigation for theft under art. 194, para. 1 of the Criminal Code.. not qualified ordinary composition of theft. All operational and search activities to be carried out, to provide full outside procedural assistance to the Ministry of Interior, to seek the opportunity to detect camera recordings. The very same day, by the way, the Director of the SDVR informed me that relevant actions had been taken supposed witnesses and so on. I hope, like everyone else, that this physical evidence will be found so that it can contribute to clarifying the objective truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u38	A question from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mrs. Maya Manolova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u39	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! According to the public reading, the mystery of stealing Zlatanov's notebook minimizes not only the penal process against Philip Zlatanov. This mystery practically exonerates his guarantors, the persons who have ordered who is to be hit, who is to be postponed, who is to be filed. In this way these persons become untouchable, there is no way against them successful criminal proceedings can be carried out, because although it is controversial whether this notebook was evidence in Zlatanov's case, it is clear that this physical evidence would be primarily in a case against the persons with the initials I.F., Zv. Zv., B.B. Therefore, the moment of disappearance of this notebook is no accident. This is the moment when these persons.. the guarantors of who is to be hit and who is to be placed in power. This is also the explanation of GERB's carelessness towards this topic of trying to divert it, to neglect it. This is also an explanation of the passivity of the Reformation Bloc MPs, the Patriots and others associated with the new quadruple coalition. [[noise and lines]] because they, as they entered the government, lined up right next to these persons to the guarantors of Philip Zlatanov. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Therefore, my question to you is: have other criminal proceedings been initiated besides against Philip Zlatanov, and has this expertise been assigned to these criminal proceedings? As you will surely escape this answer with round statements, I will also ask you something in particular that is already within your competence: which persons have been informed about the appointment of the expert in question, namely this expert, and what actions have been carried out by the Ministry of Interior to invade the criminals, the autojambazies, the rest of the criminal contingent in Ovcha, and in the Sixth District Government? To ask you simply: how many arrests have you committed, how many people have you committed to really show that you are looking for the perpetrators of this crime after the theft of that notebook? Otherwise, we will conclude that you are also involved in the people of the ruling quadruple coalition. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u40	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Because I see the great concern about the preservation and procedures that need to be made for the preservation of the evidence, I would like to make a proposal to the colleague who spoke and her concern to perhaps the other parliamentary group, which today caused this debate, to make a proposal for the preservation of the Kostinbrod ballots, because they may also disappear as evidence in the process. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u42	Personal explanation of Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u43	I didn't mention her.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u44	Your address is individualized enough, Mr. Tsvetanov. You have stated: the coworker, the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u45	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! For several days I have been watching GERB's attempts to slip away from this case, somehow divert attention, so that people forget whose initials were in the book in question. In fact, from the answer to your question, and as a result of normal legal logic, it is clear that there is one winner from the disappearance of this notebook...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u46	Who are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u47	...namely, the persons whose initials all Bulgarian citizens know appear in the book in question. Zv., B.B., I.F. [[Noise and lines.]] It's part of the face. These are the faces that now rule us. These are the people who came into power. [[(Reply from GERB: A Delyan Peevski?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] There is no way analogies can be made here with Kostinbrod, because, thank God, the ballots from Kostinbrod didn't disappear. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Your attempted crime, your manipulation with 480 thousand ballots [[Shouting from GERB: "E-e-e-e!"]] ready to be put into service, couldn't have gone through. Because there, unlike this case, is a lightning strike, so you couldn't cover the tracks of cooked manipulation. Unfortunately, the situation with the notebook is different and the expectation of all Bulgarian citizens is to take uncompromising measures against this, because this is not just Philip Zlatanov [[(Comments from GERB:]] Don't forget that! This is the meaning of the mystery with the notebook "to cover the last physical proof of the way GERB managed us." [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u48	That's an opinion, Mrs. Manolova. You have a personal explanation right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u49	This must be remembered because GERB are in power again! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u50	Thank you. [[Heckling]] Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, procedure in the manner of conduct. However, let us give Minister Vuchkov to answer the questions asked. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] You have the opportunity for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u51	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! As far as I am aware, the leadership of the National Assembly in the face of the President at the moment which is leading it is called upon to hold the meetings so that they will stick mainly to the topic we are discussing and not to make free compositions of any topics, including introducing some new procedures that may be in the future rules that GERB will adopt, will be there, but now they are not. Madam President, that is why my question is in the manner of conduct: what is the point of the Rules and exactly which procedure did the party-spoken GERB propose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u52	Mr. Ermenkov, when a Member of the National Assembly asked for the floor of procedure, as you are the last to do so, I or my colleagues who are holding the meeting have no way of knowing exactly what, as a procedure, will require a separate Member of the National Assembly. I can interrupt it in this case because the statement was very brief, but I gave enough time in the form of a personal explanation to hear the opposite opinion on the matter. So I do not take it strongly that I have violated the Rules of Procedure. Let us still give Minister Vuchkov an opportunity to answer the questions Mrs. Manolova asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, because I have heard lines from the Chamber of Non-formals, I will now say again: Investigational Secrets - well, yes, the investigative secret is not an accidental concept, so I would also like to stick to the separation of authorities, constitutional provisions, provisions of the Rules of Procedure and several decisions of the Constitutional Court. I would like to share with you that there are several decisions of the Constitutional Court, including accompanied by the annulment of texts by the Rules of Procedure of the Forty-First National Assembly, which provide what information can be provided even to MPs, even though we are a parliamentary republic. If it falls within the scope of investigative secrecy, not only cannot representatives of the Master's degree be called in and are obliged, although perhaps they should speak right now, especially from the prosecution, not from the Ministry of Interior, but cannot be provided with such an unimpeded and investigative secret, which is a concept of the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The questions that you have asked me, in general, took place in the following: if I am wrong, please correct me and apologize in advance: have pre-trial proceedings been initiated against persons who have been informed that this person is an expert in the Zlatanov case? Oh, yeah? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Against the warrants in the notebook? [[BSP LB.]] Well, you, if you're the Home Secretary, will you answer that question?! [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u54	Please don't engage in a personal dialogue. Mr. Ermenkov will pay attention to me again that I am violating the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u55	Okay, I'm not going in. How can the Minister of Interior answer whether cases have been brought against a certain person? Two hundred and forty thousand pre-trial proceedings are in Bulgaria. Can I know? In addition, you perfectly know that in the Zlatanov case this is publicly known, regardless of some interpretations yesterday in the media, the Ministry of Interior has not conducted an investigation. The investigation has been outside the Ministry of Interior since March 1995. The case was led by an investigator. The investigation is an independent structure of the independent judiciary, under the direction of the Prosecutor's Office, a investigative department of the prosecution, there were judicial phases, there were other pre-trial proceedings, but was not led by investigative police officers from the Ministry of Interior. That's what I can say at this point, as Home Minister. It's pure chronological. I'm not a fan of conspiracy theories, and I don't trust them. On the 5th it seems that the incident of the theft occurred, on the 6th he stated in writing at the Sixth Police Department, a week ago last Friday, here on the 7th, we were elected ministers at the will of the supreme representative authority. I can very easily say: "This is not my problem. " On the contrary, I want to establish the truth in this case, but I urge you not to use as a victim and not to transfer responsibility to the employees of the interior ministry. [[Reply from the National Representative Maya Manolova. Applause by GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the people who were listed in the notebook as "struck" or fixed, at the hearing in the Commission itself it became clear what technology was and what were the ways and models to be hit or fixed different people, namely people who are internal party opponents, people from political opponents from other parties, people from the judiciary and people from the local authorities. You saw from the hearing what people themselves said. [[The plenary includes Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and Minister Ivelina Vasileva.]] These people, this model, this technology qualified it in a way that has become publicly known, namely as fiction, colorfulness or struggle. [[Voices: "E-e-e!" by GERB.]] That's how they qualified him. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Mr. Lazarov, there are shorthands, you can get acquainted with the shorthands of what the Committee of Polls was doing. This work of the Committee of Polls is in the Stenograms themselves. Mr. Minister, your answers leave us with the feeling that the Ministry of Interior does not depend on anything. My question to you is: what are you going to do, as a minister, and the Ministry of Interior, so as not to remain in society the sense of the return and reconstruction of those models that I have been talking about? Thank you for your attention. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Before answering Minister Vuchkov on the basis of art. 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which: The Members of the Council of Ministers shall be entitled to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. They can take the floor whenever they want it. The President of the National Assembly may determine the time during which the ministers speak on a specific issue. You have the floor, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just an hour ago, the European Commission officially said in a letter to Bulgaria that it welcomed the positive steps taken by the Bulgarian authorities to improve and strengthen the management system under the Operational Programme. [[Applause from GERB.]] I quote: The payments to Bulgaria under the Operational Programme "Environment" are being received, which is excellent news for the Bulgarian economy, but also for the future of cooperation between Bulgaria and the European Commission. I guess in the style I heard, you expect me to say that thanks to us this happened. We've really worked really hard these days, but... [[Laughter and excitement in DPS]] I came to tell you that thanks to all of you, thanks to the will of the Bulgarian MPs to have Parliament, to have a government, to have a cabinet, to be here together and that Europe saw that there is a normal functioning Parliament and democracy in Bulgaria, 800 million people enter the Bulgarian economy and this is due to all of you who are here. [[Applause from GERB and the Reformation Bloc.]] That is why I came to thank on behalf of the government and colleagues the details later in the couloirs, Tomislav Donchev on the tribune will say them with Minister Vasileva, but I have come to thank you personally that thanks to the fact that Parliament is here that you are here, there are 800 million in Bulgaria's accounts. [[Applause from GERB.]] That we did, at least they can't say that MPs didn't earn their salaries. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and Minister Ivelina Vasileva are leaving the plenary room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u60	Mr. Vuchkov, now you can answer Mr. Karadayi's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me answer Mr. Karadaye. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Karadayi, I do not know if it is being heard, your question was too general for the future policies of the Ministry of Interior, not in the specifics of the hearing for which I have been invited here. Today we would have presented our intentions for reforms in the Interior Ministry in more detail, because we need a few more days, however, to take account of what has been done so far. I would like to tell you that the state of the Ministry of Interior is extremely worrying from the budgetary point of view of the deficit at the end of the year is 213 million. lv. This depends on all the policies, whether these obligations can be covered or not. Reform without funding is simply not being carried out. I want to assure you that I rely very much on legislative changes, without the risks of opposition, without unnecessary drama and politicisation, and this is preceded by in-depth public discussions. I very much hope there are arguments to be met. There is no need for the Ministry of Interior to have its own eavesdropping and tracking service, but it should also be considered whether the DANS should have one. The natural environment of BOP is in the interior ministry. It is necessary to restore the principle through a competition to grow careers in the Interior Ministry and to strengthen trade union activities. These are briefly the policies that I would like to follow, but only after the legislation has changed. I could answer that question, I don't know if it pleases you or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u62	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this week the co-chair of the Reformation Block Mr. Radan Kanev, at the same time Chairman of the DSB and the main coalition partner in the country's governance, announced publicly that they were subject to strong corruption pressure in the appointments of the second Echelon to the executive. We at the DPS welcome Mr. Kanev's valor to give publicity to these severe vicious phenomena in Bulgarian political life. In addition, we recall that according to the Penal Code, the tendency to corruption through trade in power is a serious crime that is punishable by imprisonment. We also recall that the duty of every Bulgarian citizen, especially when he is empowered, is not to conceal a crime, because the concealment of such a serious crime is also a serious crime and is also punishable by imprisonment. That is why we expect Mr. Kanev, after saying that he will also say that he will fulfill his obligations under the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, by addressing the competent authorities, which persons, economic circles and everything they have put pressure on reformers in the appointments in the second Echelon of the executive. First of all, this information is due to the Bulgarian society to be aware of what interests they are trying to surround the new government. If detailed data is not published, we will assume that these statements of Mr. Kanev are merely an imitation of transparency. Because the main motive with which the reformers claimed power and now 23 MPs have seven ministers is the battle with the backstage. Your half-assed thesis, Mr. Kanev, without specific names leaves you in the shadow of the backroom. Get out of there! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u64	You have the opportunity to give an answer, Mr. Atanasov, on behalf of the parliamentary group to Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I do not know why on this topic today we have called the Interior Minister, because as far as I have information these notorious notebooks....................I do not know how many they are, they have never been available to employees of the Ministry of Interior, they have never been stored in the Ministry of Interior. Since I immediately see your inquisitive look, I will tell you that these notebooks have always been stored in a safe at the DANS. Why didn't you from Ataka call the chairman of the DANS to explain where these notebooks were stored? [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u66	There was a theft.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u67	Now let me tell you something very important. Today's Bulgarian government was established on 7 November 2014. This act happened on November 5th. 2014 and on November 6th this Mr. Benchev complained about the connection. But I want to tell you something else. In a Bulgarian electronic website called "Factor" on 17 October 2014. 20 days earlier, it is stated that most likely the notebooks were destroyed and disappeared. Did anyone take a look at that then? Whom should we be asking about this question, the minister who was appointed on November 7th? In order not to bore you any more, I would like to ask Mr. Minister a specific question. Mr. Minister, you have stated that this expert was an employee of the Ministry of Interior. I would like to ask you here to answer the question: what positions has Mr. Benchev been through over the years at the Ministry of Interior and was he an employee of the Sixth Administration of the notorious State Security? [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary group of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u68	For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u69	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Atanasov, I don't have a personnel report on the face and I can't read to you his career development. All I know is that he was finally an employee of the Research Institute of Crime and Crime, in some of the departments. In 2007, due to the age of 60, he left. I just wasn't prepared with a personnel report, I didn't know that's exactly the kind of question I'd be asking. Regarding whether he was an employee of State Security, yesterday I saw similar publications in the media. But since the Ministry of Interior under the leadership of Mr. Tsvetanov and I, as Deputy Minister, have submitted the entire archive under the Ministry of Security 1 100 000 active units, to the responsible Committee on Files, all documents under the State Security have been submitted to the Commission on the files chosen by the Bulgarian Parliament. You could make such a request in the hearing procedure, for example, for her work this year or on another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u70	Question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u71	Honourable President, honourable Members, Mr. Minister! Personally, I find it extremely uncomfortable that the Bulgarian National Assembly should waste so much time on nonsense. Once. A second time, if I have to go into the rhetoric of a lady who brought the patriots into what, I think there is no more responsible and more patriotic behavior to think about your people, about your country and to do everything possible in these difficult times to provide funding for the state, to provide external funding for European funds and hence to provide jobs. If I had to get into this rhetoric, the answer to which for almost everyone here it is clear that it will receive by a prosecutor's decree that there has been a crime committed by an unknown perpetrator and in two months it will be terminated, it is clear to everyone, but should I ask such simple questions to Mr. Minister of Interior, again I say, if I had to enter this rhetoric, and ask him, for example: Dear Minister, don't there happen to be initials in this notebook of Vol? Sid, M.M.'s. and, for example, whether Vol did. Sid. In this notebook, he wasn't involved in the gold finger cashing scheme?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u72	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u73	Were there initials, for example,...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u74	Please do not deviate from the subject of a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u75	...to other people like that? Because every normal person knows that when initials exist, there is no practical evidence. The second thing. I should ask you, again, if I am entering this rhetoric, giving myself the clear idea that the investigative secret cannot be broken, that the loss of time today cost you to solve much more serious issues of the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, Madam President, Dear Minister, I do feel very uncomfortable today, because I would like to ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u76	Time's up, ask the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u77	Do you have any information as to whether the person concerned has ultimately received the relevant notebooks in due order? Because there was no record of him ever getting those notebooks. There's talk of calendars, I don't know what you are, but not notebooks. If you have such information, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I expect a response from Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u79	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u80	I gave you the word, so they'll do the procedure afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u81	Mr. Bajraktarov, I can't provide information because I don't have any information on how physical evidence has been transmitted to the expert. In principle, there is such a practice in pending pre-trial proceedings and in the pre-trial phase when an expert is appointed with a specific task, to provide written materials, other documents, evidence and no evidence in the case, that the person concerned may answer the specific question in the light of his or her ability and expertise which he or she has in a particular area. Here many of you have probably worked in practice and know that this is happening. Perhaps there is some other missing physical evidence that has been provided to the expert to draw some expert conclusion called the expert conclusion. Now, was the assessment concretely correct? If it was an officer of the Ministry of Interior, I could talk. Although when it comes to criminal proceedings, a political figure as a minister should not talk about specific criminal proceedings, even if the investigating officer is an officer of the Ministry of Interior. Because this is criminal proceedings under the authority of the prosecution. In this case, was he an investigator, was he a prosecutor, considered that the expert should carry with him these important physical evidence to form an expert conclusion. Whether this could otherwise have happened, whether these researches of the expert could have happened in the investigative service itself or not, this was a matter of specific assessment by the governing public authority of the pre-trial phase. Dominus litis. This is the prosecutor, or the investigating authority, in this case the investigator. I don't know why it was done that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u82	Mr. Chukolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u83	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. We're looking at an extremely serious subject. That's why we asked for this hearing. Here the people's representation should be informed of an extremely serious topic. Madam President, my procedure is as follows. I ask those who are speaking, the people who are involved in the debate, just to remind them to speak on the subject we are discussing, not to make honest lies here, from this tribune. In the past, the Forty - Second National Assembly had a special committee that dealt with this notebook, looked at this notebook and the names that were recorded there. There are no initials anywhere in this notebook. Sid. There may be a V.C., but this must be Valeri Simeonov, because this committee is being called upon.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u84	Please, Mr. Chukolov, you proposed and I accept your request to follow...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u85	Therefore, Madam President, I ask you, first of all, to observe from this tribune not to lie, the MPs who speak, not to lie, and...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u86	... for a continuing theme and if you had heard carefully, I made a remark about deviating from the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u87	...and secondly, the debate should be on the subject we are discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u88	I reacted in due course before you requested such a procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of... Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u89	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I ask you, in the form of a procedure, not to allow statements by colleagues who identify and confirm their manipulative, conjunctural thesis. We have repeatedly stated the following: colleagues, we have not seen the book. A colleague from the BSP since then admitted where and with whom she was going to watch this notebook, but we didn't see the opposition, we didn't see the book in question, notebooks and so on. Please also call a minister, colleagues, take some care to at least focus your questions relative to the material competence of the ministers. Do not show to all viewers of the National Television and listeners of radio rude ignorance of the Constitution, of interactions between authorities. What are you asking the Minister for? What did you read to him about the motion of the cases you know in some way? How can the Minister answer you about the movement of cases?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u90	Please don't call from the scene. [[Executing noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u91	I'm very tempted to answer that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u92	Mr. Kirilov, get your head in the game.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u93	I'll keep the good tone, though. I'm asking you to do the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u94	Mr. Kirilov, I accept your procedure in the manner of conduct as an expectation of you and not a small part of the MPs to call on the plenary of the National Assembly for correctness in the dialogue. You know that under the rules, the President does not have such an opportunity until critical remarks have been addressed to him in the manner of conduct. I take the opportunity that Mr. Kirilov just asked me to remind us to stick to the request for the hearing on the particular occasion on which it was admitted by a deliberate decision of the National Assembly. Question from the next largest parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. I won't. From Attack?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u95	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand the Prime Minister's undisclosed nervousness. That's the guy with the initials B.B. in the notebook.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u96	Mrs. Tasheva, I'll take your word for it if you speak beyond what I've given it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u98	You have the opportunity to ask Minister Vuchkov a question. That's why he called on Mr. Chukolov just now to follow strict rules. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u99	Yeah. May I continue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u100	I didn't interrupt. [[Laughter at BSP LB and at Attack.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u101	I am referring to the speech of the Prime Minister, who interrupted the hearing to shower Parliament with harsh compliments. I also understand your coalition partner's uncouth experience of diverting attention from the fact that, according to Deputy Prosecutor Sarafov, we have a serious crime of influence.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u102	That's your problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u103	We want to clarify who deleted, who destroyed the physical evidence of this crime, because for everyone, it is clear to the entire Bulgarian people that Philip Zlatanov is only the fuse. Here the effort is made to limit the judicial search to this fuse only for this! Unfortunately, the judicial search would lead to persons occupying the peaks of statehood in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, Minister, you've heard us, you've seen us. You fell from somewhere, as if you were not then Deputy Minister of Tsvetan Tsvetanov. At all, you are in an unrestrained vineyard, and here we are, poor man, torturing you. You couldn't distract, and you deepened your suspicions that this whole flat tire thing was staged...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u104	Would you like to ask your question? You have ten seconds for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u105	...is a staged crime in order to justify the disappearance of the physical evidence of a group of five people occupying the peaks of power for their trade with influence. That's why I want to help you, to give you a hint. Come on, because you're wondering why we invited you, we invited you because this is where the Institute of Crime of the Ministry of Interior, his employee, is involved, and he's under your hat.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u106	Mrs. Tasheva, you are in question mode, not attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u107	And second of all... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u108	Mrs. Tasheva, stop for a second and listen to me when I talk to you. You are in question mode, and you take essentially what you will have a few minutes later. Your time for questioning is up. I'll give you a chance to ask a question, one question. You have this time from me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u109	Since the Attorney General has not responded to our invitation, Minister, I would like to ask you: what requests from the Prosecutor's Office has received so far in connection with the disappearance of the physical evidence in the case of Philip Zlatanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u110	Thank you. For an answer, Minister Vuchkov, if you understand what you are asked, you can answer. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u111	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Tasheva, to your question of what requests from the DVRA in relation to the notebooks in question, I could say, as I quoted at the outset, on the relevant date all the materials on this file for the alleged theft by Mr. Benchev were seized by the prosecutor. Right now, the entire investigation is being conducted by a prosecutor. If there are requests to the Ministry of Interior to carry out any investigative or extra-trial actions, the Ministry of Interior will provide them unconditionally. But specifically what signals from the prosecutor's office were given to the Ministry of Interior or not, I couldn't say. I suppose no signals have been issued yet, but if they are issued, I am sure that the staff of the Ministry of Interior will meet the prosecution's expectations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u112	Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure relates to the fact that I see many colleagues here, especially Mrs Tasheva, are trying to accuse institutions, state institutions, of things that they have no bearing on. It is understood that the Ministry of Interior in this form, with this leadership, has no practical involvement in examining this notebook. But I'd like to remind Mrs. Tasheva of something else...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u114	I need you to do the procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u115	The procedure is not to make accusations without going factually to the facts. And these are the following. This notebook has been examined by the last Parliament by a special committee. There were two notebooks known to be black and red. [[Noise and lines.]] It's known that only one notebook was seen. And the other, in which there was the only full name spelled "D." Peevsky hasn't been seen. This name subsequently appeared on some websites, you can even tell in what light this name is written...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u116	Mr. Andreev, you can share these facts with the MPs when you are concerned about the answers of Minister Vuchkov. In the specific procedure, when you have remarks to me about how I lead the meeting, you have the floor to make a comment to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u118	Mr. Kazak, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u119	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Here, we have just witnessed abuse of right, abuse of the Rules of Procedure, in the form of a procedure in the manner of conduct, statements are made on the ground, defending those, quite often manipulative. Madam President, instead of inviting the Members of the National Assembly to comment on you, you should make a remark as you have authority under the Rules to Members of Parliament who abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u120	Didn't you hear me, Mr. Kazak, that I did? You didn't hear me. Before that, I explained that this is essentially a relation to the answers of Minister Vuchkov and there will be an opportunity in the 5 minutes that follow as part of the procedure, to inform us of his opinion. Having asked the word in the manner of conduct, if there is a remark to me, make it. And then Mr. Metodiev correctly said that he would take an attitude. Meet the transcript of what I said to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u121	You should have said, "I'm making a statement."
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u122	And we'll get to punishment, colleagues. It's okay. [[Radio.]] A question from the ABB Parliamentary Group? I won't. We move on to the last part of the procedure by the MP on behalf of a parliamentary group, within 5 minutes to the response of Minister Vuchkov. You have the floor, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The truth about this notebook may never be understood and established, as those who dealt with it carried out, of course, a political task. For one simple reason, there can be no parliamentary committee to deal with a problem and not have the full evidence regarding what it is dealing with. It is publicly known, thanks to the e-mail sites, that the notebooks were both black and burgundy. Very interesting committee, which was chaired in the last parliament by Mr. Kiril Dobrev and which spent 50 thousand. lv. of the Bulgarian taxpayer, what conclusion did you come to? And why then officially, when this commission communicated to the Bulgarian citizens about the initials B.B., Tsv. Zv. And I don't know what it is, he missed the only clear name he has written. It's in this notebook. You all know that. And it is in its inherent quality.... with regard to Bulgartabac................................................................................................ How long will we not answer the question in this Parliament who is who? Because there, in this notebook is also the answer. And we, as Bulgarian MPs, are obliged to tell the whole truth about the model. I am very surprised that people and my friends from the DPS are shy about the extraordinary influence of this person, a beneficial influence for the development and ascension of their movement. Because, gentlemen of the DPS, people like Mr. Delyan Peevski led to the comic situation DPS to read: Delyan, Paul and Slava. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u124	The way you're holding Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u125	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, here again, the same person is dramatically violating the procedure, and you silently let him sit in his seat without commenting on him as a sanction provided for in the Rules of the National Assembly for deviating from the procedure......................... did not ask any specific question to the Minister, but allowed himself to make only naked statements, manipulative statements and frank slanders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u126	Mr. Kazak, this way I will wait calmly for you to sit in your seat, because the people representative who spoke before you is not in the mode of asking questions, but to take attitude. And he took into account facts that are related to the subject of today's hearing, and these are notebooks or notebooks. Unlike him, I don't know their number or their colors. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u127	Madam President, dear Minister, to tell you the truth, I had forgotten what it was like to be in power and to hold a meeting. Believe me, you've done everything you can to water this debate. They wouldn't let funds out of that door, and they would come out of this door, and it wasn't the bad state security that stole notebooks... And I don't know with this ghost that you put in your parliamentary group that's haunted by State Security and day and night, how we're gonna get through this term. But it's just a lyrical deviation. Dear Minister, I don't see why you should be angry that you're here. No matter how many books the Bulgarian public should know: these books, apart from the prosecution, no other institution has seen them. We've all worked on the xerocopies and the slideshow that the D.A. delivered. If they were in the DANS, in which case, where they were placed, this only knows the gene. Atanasov, because no one but him has contact with such superiors. But, Minister, please don't be angry because the public needed your hearing. If I'm not mistaken, it's about stealing physical evidence. Who's in charge of stealing in this country? The Ministry of Interior. The only thing you should have said to the Bulgarian public after you found out about this theft is what actions the Ministry of Interior took, how many people have been inoculated, how many have been detained, how many apartments have been checked? Since I have not heard this information, I am aware that in these five days the Ministry of Interior has done nothing to solve this theft. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u128	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Opportunity to be treated on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, from what we have heard today, it is clear that nothing depends on this matter from the Ministry of Interior. At least I got that impression with that attitude. I don't know, Mr. Methodiev must have been working...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u130	Method Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u131	Methodie Andreev, thank you, he must have worked in detail with the notebooks and notebooks. But so far, it's been claimed by this tribune that no one has seen them except the D.A.'s office. We've worked, as before I've been said, with the xerocopie that we've been provided with, as well as the slide show. The suggestion, the lie that there was a single name written, you must have seen them somewhere, but there were other names in the xerocopies. And the claim that a single name has a completely written name is not true, it's a lie, it's a suggestion. Because there is a name called Plevneliev. It's all written there. We saw this from both the xerocope and the slide show. From this point of view, I will return to the principled question: what has been seen in this committee and is found in the stenograms of the victims of the committee clearly and precisely gave a model of governance, a model of residence of power. And this model of being in power is not good. We all appreciated it and we all see it. The main concern and task, including the National Assembly, is not to allow such models to be repeated. From this point of view, it is necessary, in any case, quite calmly, in principle, to get acquainted, to take attitude and to cross attempts of this kind for such a model of governance in our homeland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u133	Mr. Karadaye, I'm not trying to manipulate and not tell the truth. What has been officially written as a result of the verification of this committee is clearly written "Plevneliev". I ask another question: why didn't I read any notebooks that were written in full? Peevsky, didn't come out officially in the result of the National Assembly's inspection?! That's why I'm saying $50,000 has been spent. lv. most likely to hide that name!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u134	Who's behind the website?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u135	Mr. Radan Kanev has the floor for attitude on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u136	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I will try to hold this speech fully within the debate. The debate may not have been unnecessary. I voted against holding it with the idea that it would not be necessary. Now that it's been held, my opinion is that maybe it wasn't unnecessary. The significant public interest and significant doubts concerning the disappearance of these notebooks have been revealed, however many. And these are doubts that the Bulgarian society should have heard. It is clear to all of us that this is a subject with a continuation. Unfortunately, not with a continuation where the prosecution and the court have to, but with a continuation in the media and in the public domain. The serious doubt, or at least the serious ambiguity, whether it is a domestic crime or a crime of a very serious nature, from the field of organised crime will worry our society for quite some time. If it is a domestic crime, it raises some questions and they are questions of a technical nature which can be solved fairly easily legislative. If this is about deliberately withdrawing this physical evidence from the expert at a very critical time, then it is about a very serious breakthrough in Bulgaria's national security! What Mr. Metodi Andreyev and General Atanas Atanasov carried out is not to be ignored. There were publications that this notebook would disappear long before the power was changed in Bulgaria. There was a clear match between these publications and the first publications related to Mr. Delyan Peevski's name in the book. There was a clear connection with the moment of the election of the new government, which was immediately before his choice, when he was already clear, that is, when it was coming. On the basis of the data that were exported by the questions of the MPs and on the basis of the answers of Minister Vuchkov, neither can these serious doubts be dissipated nor fully confirmed. However, we can share and support the concern of Minister Hristo Ivanov, who said that this may be a very serious problem for the Bulgarian administration of justice, which may be repeated in other cases. I stress, if it is not a domestic problem, of course, it is a breakthrough in Bulgaria's national security. And here the connection to the belongings of the expert from which the notebook disappeared with the State Security services is not at all a cause for irony and laughter, although we can always laugh. But for 25 years this laugh has become quite bitter, as such coincidences become quite common. This notebook, the investigation into it, is a very serious matter related to heavy abuse of power. Doubts about his disappearance show, and to me this is the main conclusion of today's debate that without a very serious reform of justice, without a very serious reform in SANS and without a very serious reform in the Ministry of Interior, abuse of power in Bulgaria will never be revealed. I assure you that all the criminal data that has come to me will be in due order brought to the knowledge of the competent authorities. But our previous experience has led me to the serious concern that nothing on the part of these competent authorities will follow because it is a question of abuse of power and without a working DANS, without the working Ministry of Interior, without a working prosecution, and by working...................................I understand very clearly independent from political and mafia influence, there will be no result. The case of belonging to the political governance of State Security of the person in question, a retired officer of the Ministry of Interior, shows something else. These reforms necessarily include a strong element of lustration of the employees of the DS. Thank you. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. For attitude on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Minister! My attitude towards this debate has somewhat expressed it, but what has really become clear from it? In fact, it became clear that someone had seen the notebooks, and another had not seen them, a third had seen them on slides, a fourth had seen them on the xerocopie, and another said that they were only in the prosecutor's office! In other words, what is the whole simple, simple story of this debate? There is an old sentiment: Give the people bread and spectacles. However, you gentlemen on the left, since you could not give bread to the people, have now decided to give it a spectacle. [[Radio and lines on the left.]] Among other things, it did not become clear from these debates: if there are these notebooks, personally, I am not convinced that they exist at all. [[Laughter]] , whether in the color burgundy, blue, or I don't know what color, whether in these same notebooks, as I understand the debates here, the whole truth has been brought out, or just selected certain initials to enter precisely, to strengthen the element of the spectacle? It did not become clear whether it really existed in this notebook the initial. Peevsky. If I ask again, the initials don't exist. Sid. [[yelling from... Attack.]] and are they not at all described in this same notebook when it comes to influence with power and schemes, the ways of cashing in support of power, called by the people of Golden Finger?! That's what didn't come out of the whole thing! We are obliged to react when we place one such debate on an institution such as the Ministry of Interior. The only thing the Interior Minister should ask himself is: how and how will he react to the identification of perpetrators of a crime if there is such a crime at all? Again, I have to go back that no one here has shown an official document that the person in question has ever received these notebooks in due order and from who received them. Moreover, these doubts of mine are reinforced precisely by the information sent to the media more than a month ago that the notebooks had already disappeared. Interesting, isn't it? But I say again: there is no problem to use the action in Bulgaria, and it is even easier than a group there, in the corner, to the left [[(Calls ……]] which suffers from some other such illusions and is probably where other passions depend on the KGB hold them. [[Elevator bell dings]] But how can I talk about people like that... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u139	Talk to facts, not conjecture.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u140	I am expressing my attitude, my dear lady.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u141	The attitude is to the minister's response, not to the behaviour of the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u142	It is pointless to conduct such debates, to broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and to take valuable time from the National Assembly, which is paid by taxpayers. Let me explain. Thank you. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u143	The attitude on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is welcome, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u144	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We, from the Democratic Parliamentary Group, are sitting in the central part of the plenary and slowly and have listened carefully to the opinions and attitudes of the other Members. Our attitude is as follows: yes, the debate was put on a very important and important topic, but our opinion is that in the course of the debate itself he was freaking out, there was no substance talk, there were unjustified political attacks, including personal insults. It seems to us that the National Assembly has not been chosen for this matter! Our opinion is that we need to work on important, essential things, to come up with correct and concrete solutions, because we are really sent here to do something positive, something constructive! In fact, many important things have not been said at all. Watching from the tribune, I see that in fact in every single parliamentary group there is a former investigator: colleague Ninova, from BSP left Bulgaria, is absent; colleague Notev of the Party Ataka. Mr. Peevski is also an investigator, perhaps some forget; Mr. Atanasov is a former prosecutor. It is important to say that we actually commented on two criminal proceedings. The first is already in a rousing phase of the process and for us the big question is whether the Court of Appeal will confirm the first instance after there is no such important evidence which is an integral part of the material in the case. And secondly, I believe that Minister Vuchkov accurately and clearly explained what the Ministry of Interior has done with regard to the theft carried out on the territory of Sofia Directorate of Interior. Our opinion is that we really owe the employees of the Internal Office. In the course of the upcoming debate, our opinion is that instead of blaming without reason, it is right to focus on the poor material and technical base, on the incomplete composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u145	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" Mr. Chukolov has five minutes to express the group's attitude towards the answers of Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We wanted this debate to happen because in this notebook there are actually a lot of secrets, a lot of connections, a lot of things that must become clear to the Bulgarian public. In this notebook are involved politicians, magistrates, mayors, municipal councilors, the president even. This notebook actually made me think that I was talking about it around this November 10th. All these secrets that have been happening in the country for 25 years may actually be in this notebook. A lot of things are becoming clear. First of all, how is this one assigned to Philip Zlatanov, this gentleman? It should be clear that Philip Zlatanov is a shot of GERB, naturally. His mother is the secretary of GERB, an elder in Pernik, the head of the water water service - Pernik, in 2010 has become one. The then Minister of Regional Development Rosen Plevneliev signed her the order to become one. After that, this name is mentioned in this notebook, Rosen Plevneliev writes not to bother. Here's a conflict of interest. Zlatanov himself, when he was elected, he declared: I will be a professional, I will work according to all European norms, I will not allow any political abuse in the work of the Commission. Well, you didn't! And on the work of the Commission itself, and then when that notebook came out. By the end of 2012, there was a report which summarized what the Commission had done until then. There was just a woman caught in Tarnovo for the reservation, who made some kind of deal. A signal then to this Commission and to the then, to the former then President Parvanov, about his hunting adventures. She didn't look at anything. Signals to many, many other politicians. They haven't been examined. When the prosecutors went to a press conference to announce that she had found this notebook, then they said: "This is the main evidence. You remember those slides that then represented the prosecutors who were tasked with this task. That was their basic evidence back then. And now, these days, we understand that this evidence has disappeared. Well, of course we'll have such a debate, we'll ask the Minister for a hearing. We wanted to invite Mr. Attorney General to introduce us to what the D.A. is doing. Of course we want to do this. It must be clear to us MPs, I remind you again that this book is also about politicians. Here, in this Chamber, 50 parties are represented in this National Assembly! Fifty parties! Of course it has to be clear. But the D.A. must have had other tasks, another immunity to take down, didn't respond to that. What we found out from Mr. Vuchkov is that the ball is in the D.A.'s office. And so far, the prosecution, at least by what you said, Minister, has not entrusted the SDVR, the relevant departments of the Interior Ministry to carry out certain actions, to find records and so on. About the fact of this disappearance. Well, this gentleman with this notebook, doesn't he realize what he's carrying? Of course he does. It is natural that a former police officer has this experience and reacts to a situation. That a driver told him that the tire fell asleep, as he confessed, when he parked the car on one side, he went for a bit of a nap. It's a little needy, what's that?! What's that? As one fellow Member says: "Is this normal? " He has gone for a little bit. If you'd gone on another type of need, we might have thought about where the notebooks went. [[Radio.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this debate must continue, this discussion must continue. In general, the work of the Interior Ministry, the prosecution, of the court on this subject should be taken into account in the public eye. The media should be watching for this. I summon you from this tribune. This notebook, Philipgate, what do we call it, it'll always be right. It's a transition gate, that's what this is about. And here, with regard to the parliamentary groups, who takes what attitude, and the Bulgarian viewers, I hope, many things have become clear. And there is nothing to be shy about as if we are now entering this National Assembly somewhere abroad, from space and we are not aware of what happened in Bulgaria. Clearly, IF, as you say, is Iskra Fidosova, not Irina Florin. It's clear that C.C. is Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who is currently standing in the place of Iskra Fidosova, where she stood before. Clearly, B.B. is Boyko Borisov, who stood right here and tried to divert the topic naturally by an old number as you can. Here, come out for a personal explanation of both Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Boyko Borisov, and swear by your most expensive. For you, the most expensive thing is power! Swear it's not you. [[Single applause.]] About the Patriotic Front, Reformation Block. What about the Patriot Front? Was it a conflict of interest that your group's leader...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u147	Mr. Chukolov, didn't you call me to pay attention when the speaker deviates?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u148	Was it a conflict of interest that your group's brander as chairman of the Municipal Council... I'm talking about conflict of interest, ma'am. He as chairman of the Municipal Council in Burgas makes a deal on terrain and buys something that is not his business.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u149	But you are in a procedure for dealing with the answer that Minister Vuchkov gave. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u150	Dear colleagues, don't! [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Tsacheva, I understand you're defending the Patriotic Front. Don't do it! It's not in your best interest!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u151	I am fulfilling your request, Mr. Chukolov, to strictly follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u152	My request is that you let me finish my sentence, not interrupt me. [[Loud noise and lines.]] That's what I'm gonna lock up with, fellow Members. Keep an eye on what happens to this case, this notebook, the people involved in this case. Follow and simply the answers will be very, very indicative. I hope you have eyes to see the answers and see the truth. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. The attitude on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group is not desirable. With this, the hearing procedure for the Interior Minister Mr. Vuchkov has been exhausted. Let's thank him for the answers we've received. Rest till 11:30. We continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u154	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, as well as the ministers who will take part in today's parliamentary control. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 7 November to 13 November 2014 A question came in from: - National Representative Manol Genov of Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, on the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water towards municipalities with built OSOV for their management and operation until the conclusion of a contract with the Association of VIK and the regional operator. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 21 November 2014; - National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on justification for the increasing price of electricity. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 21 November 2014; - National Representative Metodi Andreev to Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, regarding information that at present the Ministry of Military Information did not submit more than 33 000 archive units to the Commission on the files. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 21 November 2014. Mr. Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov, Minister of Interior Mr. Veselin Vuchkov and Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski should take part in today's parliamentary control. They're asked questions. Mr. Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, will be the first to respond on the National Assembly's website to a question by the National Representative Yavor Haytov concerning the implementation of the Order of the Minister of Defence No. OH - No. 455 of July 2014 containing the definition of the terms, conditions and organization for the assembly of military formations 54990 "Vratsa." Before Mr. Haytov developed his question, a written request was received from the National Representative Volen Siderov, who asked that the answer to his question be postponed to the Minister of Defence concerning the purposes of the visit to the Republic of Bulgaria to the Supreme Commander of NATO in Europe General Philip Breedlaw. For respectable reasons Mr. Siderov cannot participate in today's meeting, so Mr. Minister, you will answer only Mr. Haytov's question. We're listening, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the House! For the record, "Javor Haytov," elected MP from 6. Multi-mandated Vrachanski constituency. Dear Minister, in December 2010, in a meeting with more than 150 servicemen in the hall of unit 523380 in the town. Vratsa, then Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria Anyu Angelov announced a final decision to close the unit. The closure became a fact at the beginning of July 2012. All this caused extreme resentment in the public in Vratsa and the region. I can tell you that for the first time, I saw about 10,000 people protesting and resenting the fact of closing this unit. About two years later, the order of the Minister of Defence was issued in my question, namely Order No. OH - No 455 of July 2014, which lays down the terms, conditions and organization for the assembly of military formations 54999. Vratsa. Please, Minister, report what is the course of the order and what are the deadlines within which a military unit will start functioning again on the territory of Vratsa Municipality? What is the total number of servicemen who will perform their duties on the territory of the city unit? I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u156	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. For an answer Mr. Nenchev, Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u157	Dear Madam President, Dear Ministers, Dear ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Haytov! I will not go into details, as the case is well known, I will only recall the chronology. In 2010, a decision was taken by the Defence Minister to close the mechanized battalion in Vratsa. On 19 June 2013, a decision was proposed at a meeting of the Defence Council to restore the dissolved battalion. Financial estimates were also made, according to which the restoration of infrastructure in the area amounted to 13.7 billion. lv. [[Reply from BSP LB: "Million leva! "]] Million leva, excuse that aim to restore infrastructure in the area. In July of the same year, an organization was established by order of the Minister of Defence to assess the possibility of forming a separate mechanized battalion. With a subsequent order a report has been prepared with a road map. The activities, deadlines and responsible structures for the formation of the unit. A decree of the Council of Ministers of 21 January 2014 established the formation of a separate mechanized battalion with dislocation in Vratsa and a number of 250 people. An act of the Minister of Defence of 1 July 2014 laid down the terms and conditions for the completion of the military formation in Vratsa. What's the situation today? First of all, I would like to stress that, as regards human resources, the formation of personnel of the unit and preparation in accordance with the prescribed deadlines, the order of the commander of the Land Forces has been issued, with which 128 soldiers have been reassigned. The remaining 44 vacant posts are proposed to be announced in the supplementary registers for 2015 under Order No 0X 730/8.10.2014. A procedure will be launched immediately after 1 January 2015 for the acceptance of 35 servicemen who have graduated from civil, secondary or higher schools in the country or abroad. The assembly of the battalion with the required eight employees will take place on 1 December this year. The material and technical conditions for the operation of the battalion and, above all, the repair and construction works to be carried out are not materially secured by Budget 2014. According to the original plan, the construction and repair works should have been completed by now on 1 December 2014 and the unit should proceed to its tasks later. The reasons for this delay in the process are: lack of funds not provided for in the budget and later its design, which was not planned properly in the first half of 2014. The public procurement schedule related to construction and construction services was violated. Under the only procedure that has been carried out, a limited procedure under art. 3, para. 2 of the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor with subject "Design and exercise of the author's supervision of the site "Restructuring and completion of the military area 1144 " the city of Vratsa. As a contractor of the order was chosen PRONO Ltd. with an offer price 299 thousand. £400.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u158	Mr. Nenchev, I apologize, but the three minutes that have been laid down by the Rules of Procedure have expired. I gave you one minute more. In the back, you will have the opportunity to develop your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u160	I pay attention to the parliamentary secretaries in preparing the ministers' answers to closely monitor the provisions of the Rules of Procedure at the disposal of each minister for an answer. Line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I'm taking the floor for a line so that you have an opportunity in your duplicate to further develop the answer. I want to tell you that this unit is important not only for the Vratsa municipality. It is also important for the whole of the Northwest because, as we all know, in recent years, this is the area where there was the least investment, unemployment was the largest, migration, unfortunately, also struck most of this region. I am pleased with your answer that this is being handled, although slowly and methodically. I was impressed that several times you mentioned that material and technical and financial security was not at the necessary level. I would like to assure you that personally, I and our entire parliamentary group will support your ideas and proposals regarding the budget your office will receive next year. Please note, in all your actions, that the Northwestern region is not only Vratsa but Vidin and Montana need special care. I expect to hear from you that not only 250 people will be employed in the unit, as you mentioned, but at least 500-600, because I have had the opportunity to see whole towns with kindergartens, with dining establishments, emerge at NATO military bases around the bases themselves. So this is economics, this is the revival of the entire region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u162	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. A hole, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u163	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Haytov, thank you for understanding. In a nutshell. After this, it will be difficult to commit to a specific answer to my question for the period in which this could happen. The conduct of public procurement for the contractor of the site requires specific deadlines laid down in the law. You know that very well. I can now state that, in the case of funds provided for by you in Budget 2015, and in compliance with the time limits under law, action will be taken to comply with the order cited above. I would like to assure you, Dear Mr. Haytov, that this unit will continue to exist the way it is intended. I also understand the people of Northwestern Bulgaria, for whom there is a military formation in Vratsa is also important in view of the upcoming winter and possible force majeure circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u164	Right!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u165	I can assure you that if there are any such cases in this winter, the Bulgarian Army is ready to respond in due time and carry out its mission in this regard. Today, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time I appear before you as Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria. Allow me to wish you health and success and as MPs I wish you to be guided by the interests of the people! Thank you. [[Applause from BDZ and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u166	Thank you, Minister, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u167	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! GERB is in power again. Once again, we face the danger that Parliament will become the aid of the government of Boyko Borisov. Once again, the thinking that the people's representatives are idlers and idlers is coming back. The beginning of this process of debasement of Parliament is set with the preparation of the new Parliamentary Rules. For the first time in 25 years, a parliamentary majority has allowed itself in the rules on the activity of the new Parliament so unceremoniously to restrict the opposition, to provide comfort for itself and for its ministers, to touch on principles and norms that are at the heart of modern parliamentaryism. The right to parliamentary control shall be restricted. The legislative activity shall be restricted. Practically limited the possibility of parliamentary monitoring of independent regulators and judicial bodies. The parliamentary debate is limited. It limits, ladies and gentlemen, active parliamentaryism and continuity between parliaments. Because: - For the first time, a ruling majority is reaching out to the opposition's right to propose bills for inclusion in the weekly programme. The legislative work is expressed not only in the preparation and submission of laws, but also in their discussion and vote in plenary. Therefore, by limiting the possibility for our bills to be discussed in plenary, you are limiting our legislative activity. - For the first time, the ruling majority allowed itself to reduce the speaking time of MPs. Obviously, you don't need time to speak. You will not expose and listen to arguments, you will simply press the buttons as you have done before. But we are here to defend with arguments the interests of those who have sent us to Parliament. - For the first time, the ruling majority legitimizes the absence of the Members of the Chamber. The empty room during parliamentary control is the most irritating view for Bulgarian citizens, but with the new parliamentary rules you legalize and encourage it. It is true that we are all guilty of parliamentary carelessness during Friday's control, but instead of fighting this outrage, you of the ruling majority are encouraging it with new rules. - For the first time the ruling majority is reaching out to parliamentary control of this fundamental power of parliament to monitor the actions of the executive. The obligation of the ministers to respond orally and publicly to the Bulgarian citizens You make an exception and the written answers prepared by officials in the offices as a rule. We will take this attack against the main power of parliament before the Constitutional Court, because the ministers are obliged to respond from the parliamentary stand and we will provide it to the citizens. Branite Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and your ministers with an umbrella against MPs asking uncomfortable questions. According to the new proposals in the Rules of Procedure, a MP who disrespects Prime Minister Borisov or a minister will be removed from three plenary sessions and sanctioned with several hundred leva each. What are you really afraid of, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling quadruple coalition? What are you protecting your newly elected ministers from? From awkward parliamentary questions? From arguments? From the debate in plenary? Or the fact that we will behave like you, GERB, in the previous parliament, that we will boycott that we will run away from work, that we will destroy the authority of the institution? We didn't do it, we don't do it, and we don't do it! Didn't you say until yesterday that you cared about Parliament and that you would restore trust in the institution? Is this how you will work for Parliament's authority by reaching out to established parliamentary rules and trying to silence the opposition? In fact, such behaviour on the part of GERB is not surprising, it is expected. The creation, the reconciliation, the consensus was for a while until you made a government and settled in power. The masks quickly fell, you're the same, you haven't learned anything, you haven't changed anything. But you gentlemen of reformers, patriots and others accompanied by the ruling coalition, didn't you want transparency until yesterday, didn't you? Yesterday you wanted control? Transparency and control wanted the people who had gone out to the streets. Is your compromise the price of power? I declare this Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria to be a warning to all MPs who do not follow the preparation of the new parliamentary rules and to all Bulgarian citizens for the preparation of the assault against parliamentaryism, against established principles and rules of parliamentary democracy. We're doing this because we're a responsible opposition. Because it is the work of the opposition in the democratic state to control the government, so that they represent well the interests of those governed. It is also the task of the opposition to give alternatives and better options for solutions that you can take advantage of if you want. And we ask: with all these restrictions and restrictions governing the quadruple coalition, what are you running from? If you're running out of control, you want out of control. If you're running from debates and you don't want alternatives, then you only want to hear your own voice. Being opposed is an institute whose great purpose is to deter power from temptation. Otherwise, there's one step from freedom to despotism. Don't cross it! We all remember what despotism looked like in Boyko Borisov's first term. I really hope you remember how it ended. Because when the eggs fly to Parliament, don't call me. I won't go out for you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova, for sharing your concerns about the work of the Temporary Commission in plenary. I must make it clear to viewers and listeners not to get the wrong impression that there are rules made. It has not submitted a report to be reviewed by the plenary due to the Commission's incessant disputes so far. So I believe that your conclusions are premature, Mrs. Manolova. Not for anything else, you're leading your parliamentary group on. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u169	): Dear Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Even demagogy must have its limit. Excuse me, to fail the state, to screw up the budget, to start making South Stream so that the whole European Commission can talk about Bulgaria as the country that violates all European rules, all the principles of transparency, almost somewhere in Russia is prepared Bulgarian legislation on this occasion, and you can say that you are the symbol of transparency and to accuse others that they have hardly been, excuse me, it is classical but very insolent demagogy. To stop European funds in your time, key programs that are important to Bulgaria for farmers, for whom not, for thousands of companies, for thousands and hundreds of thousands of citizens, in your mandate to have failed a key bank and you to have done nothing, and in this situation to explain how you are almost better and others violated the principles of transparency, excuse me, colleagues, but it is not fair. You know, little by little, in order for this Parliament to have a real debate, demagogy must still be limited and you must be a little humble from the BSP. Yesterday on the Budget Committee, I saw some signs of humility. In the beginning, you started the debate the same way again. They blew the budget, came to the Budget Committee and asked: what happened? There was almost no Oresharski office until yesterday, with which BSP and DPS, you know, had nothing to do with it, almost they didn't know him, they didn't know who Oresharski was and they didn't carry any guilt and responsibility for everything that was going on. You can't do this anymore! As for transparency and accountability, dear Mrs. Manolova, we will do our best, as we have always done for Belene, when you were a symbol of opaqueness, we took out the truth; as we did for KTB you were a symbol of opaqueness, we drew the truth; as we did for South Stream. So the way we've worked all these years, we're going to keep working the same way, but this demagogy is starting to come in too much. By the way, speaking of a quadruple coalition in power, we see a triple coalition in opposition, which, if you ask me, is much more disturbing between BSP, DPS and Ataka. It is curious that BSP, DPS and attack together managed, and now BSP, DPS and Attack are in opposition together. That is, together in power, then together in opposition. So I'm asking you to be more correct, to be more honest, to be more precise, to tell the truth. Excuse me, to have caused all the damage to the country with the South Stream, to have made Bulgaria, excuse me, for a bad example in every European country for the way in which the past government of BSP, DPS and Ataka ended everything under the South Stream and now to say that you want transparency, you who hid everything and damaged the image of Bulgaria in front of the entire civilized world is ridiculous and unfair. I would like to conclude with the following: we will work for real transparency, for real accountability, we will do everything possible in the new majority of governance that has been made in the past, not to repeat itself and really have more control with this Parliament over the government, the civil society over the government. You know, this demagogy doesn't work for you either. You don't need it anymore, and you don't need it. So I call you today from this tribune: a little humbler, a little more honest, because otherwise, otherwise, if you drive it this way, we are most pleased if you challenge us, we will constantly bring out all the failures of the Oresharski office and repeat them to you. [[Noise and disapproving lines on the left.]] We're gonna take them out all the time, no worries. But, sorry, the question is: is it fair that someone who has led the state to a very difficult financial situation who has failed in every important priority, now to come here and say that there is no transparency. I'm sorry, is that fair? Can you believe people like that? Absolutely not! Finally I will tell you this: we will seek the dialogue even with you, we will try to work with all MPs, but it will not happen in this unfair way, it will not happen with this heavy demagogy. There must be dialogue and indeed, when you ask a question about something that can be changed, it can make Bulgaria more transparent, control over the cabinet better, then you will also get our support. [[(Applause and cheering) Bravo! Bravo! " by GERB and RB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u170	For a personal explanation, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u171	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Actually, the demagog isn't me, it's you! [[(Loud noise and screams: (E-e-e-e-e-s)]] In fact, I am talking to you about the parliamentary rules, about the behaviour of your MPs in the adoption of the new parliamentary rules, and you are talking to me about the lain snow. I am hesitant to accept that you have not been informed of the shameful support your MPs are making for undemocratic proposals, for proposals that restrict both parliamentary control and transparency and parliamentary debate and legislative activity in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u172	You're lying, Mrs. Manolova. You're lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u173	But somehow I can't accept that you haven't been informed. Rather, this is a consequence of the fact that the reformers were overpowered at the beginning of the new cabinet! And I don't get it. Aren't you embarrassed by the people who were on the street and who you were together with from the company you were in? Don't you find it embarrassing that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that we have made together with the NGOs...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u174	It's a personal explanation! Do not discuss the work of the Temporary Commission, the Rules have not been tabled in plenary, not discussed, not voted. You deceive the Bulgarian society that such norms have been voted on!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u175	...we've been working with, are you currently commenting on? Madam President, with this statement, I would like to prevent the adoption of the most undemocratic...
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u176	But you haven't stopped making statements about these matters! This is your assessment, Mrs. Manolova. You have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u177	...rule in parliamentary history for the last 25 years! To signal both MPs and citizens. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u178	You did it. I do not expect, on behalf of the Reformation Block, each one to take a personal explanation of the accusations that have been made to you. Can we continue with parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u179	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u180	Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u181	Next is a question by the National Representative Velizar Enchev to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, regarding Bulgaria's attitude to the Transatlantic Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States. Mr. Enchev, you have the opportunity to develop your question within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u182	Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues, honourable representatives of the Bulgarian media! During your last meeting with US Ambassador Marcy Reese, you supported the transatlantic trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, which is one of the most controversial in relations between Brussels and Washington. Moreover, there is no full consensus in the European Union on the agreement and many countries reject it as a disadvantage and, most importantly, as a question of European legislation. As authoritative European experts point out, this agreement represents several trade agreements which, for the most part, are concluded secretly, opaquely between the European Union and the United States of America. In your words, however, Mr. Minister, the transatlantic trade investment partnership is important not only because of an increase in jobs and growth, but also from a geostrategic point of view. However, according to the EU trade unions, the agreement will deepen restrictions in the social sector, cut wages, close jobs in order of industrial and agricultural sectors. Recently, the European Union has acknowledged that this partnership can cause new unemployment, as employment rules will align with those in the United States, where it is no secret, labour standards and trade unions' rights are much lower than in the European Union. Among the objectives of this agreement is not only the dropping of customs duties between the US and the European Union, which, by the way, will generate serious losses for national budgets, but will also confer great privileges on transnational companies. And if they sign a contract, these privileges will satisfy the appetites of such companies as Chevron, who want to develop shale gas in Bulgaria and Romania, as well as the appetites of the powerful transnational company Monsanto, which is among the world's leading producers of GMOs - genetically modified organisms. However, the biggest threat of the transatlantic trade agreement is the impact on democracy, as the main objective of the agreement is the introduction of a dispute settlement agreement... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, I'm gonna graduate. In view of what has been exported here, I would like you to formulate the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this agreement and it is also important to know whether you share the fear that if Bulgaria signs the agreement without serious remarks and requirements, we will be the victim of foreign corporations, which will put under the subordination not only the national business but also the state itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u183	Mr. Mitov, you have the opportunity to respond within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u184	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! First of all, I would like to thank you for your question. It is very important and clarifying and discussing the subject will be more and more happy to be present in the street space. In response to the specific question, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs follows the official Bulgarian position presented at the meeting of the Council of the European Union in the format of Foreign Affairs and Trade. It was originally formulated and adopted by the previous government by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 April, 12 June, 16 October 2013, as well as 26 February, 30 April and 8 October 2014, with the competence of the Ministry of Economy. Bulgaria, together with the other Member States of the European Union, taking into account the need to increase economic growth in the European Union and strengthen the strategic partnership with the United States, supports negotiating a single, ambitious and comprehensive transatlantic trading and investment partnership, the so-called CTAs. You are focusing on doubts and concerns about the future partnership, but you are not questioning the need to negotiate, are you? It is natural for such a large and complex agreement to have doubts and controversial issues. These contradictions should be overcome precisely during the negotiation process. The best way for Bulgaria to protect its national interest is as a member of the European Union to actively participate in the negotiations with its positions. Bulgaria has done this and will continue to do so in the future. In my conversation with the Ambassador of the United States, I have supported not the agreement itself, which is not yet there, but the conduct of constructive negotiations between the European Union and the United States on its conclusion. That's what I support, nothing more. The main objective of the partnership is to increase trade and investment by deploying the unused potential of the transatlantic market. We see this agreement as an important part of the European Union's overall strategy for opening more market opportunities for European exports, in particular for Bulgarian exports. When negotiating trade agreements with third countries or international organisations, the European Commission shall submit recommendations to the Council of the European Union which authorises it to open the necessary negotiations. These negotiations shall be conducted by the Commission. The European Commission shall report regularly to the Member States and to the European Parliament on the course of negotiations. The decision to conclude trade agreements shall be taken by a qualified majority of the Council of the European Union. In order to ensure maximum transparency and awareness of civil society and business for the course of the TTI negotiations in October 2014, it was decided to make the mandate for EU negotiations public. The Bulgarian side supported this decision, which is an important step in eliminating the concern of possible americanisation and lowering standards in Europe. Earlier in July 2014, an agreement was reached between the European Union and the United States to open reading rooms in American embassies in the capitals of the Member States of the European Union in which access to the specific texts of partnership was granted. These have already been found in Brussels and we expect a similar opportunity to be given to us in Sofia very soon. Bulgaria's position is that as negotiations progress, ensuring access to specific texts will be important for Member States' awareness and for protecting adequate positions on sensitive issues. At the same time, we share the concern about the leak of information from the negotiations. Such cases must be prevented without creating further obstacles in the work of the administrations of the Member States. I very much hope, Mr. Enchev, that I will be able to develop my answer yet, because it is important if you have a line, of course. Just one word for GMOs. As regards goods with genetically modified organisms, I would like to clarify that the basic legislation of the European Union on GMOs is not included in the negotiating mandate of the European Union and will not be changed following negotiations on the trade agreement. The Bulgarian position on this issue remains unchanged. Bulgaria does not support admission to the market and cultivation of GMOs in the territory of the European Union. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u185	And right!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u186	Mr. Enchev, opportunity for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u187	Mr. Minister, I do not hide that I am satisfied with the last words in your reply regarding the prevention of GMOs on the Bulgarian market. But let me update my question in the form of a replica, as you yesterday gave a new topic in the public-political life with your statement that it is possible, because of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, because of the state ISIL..........................Ilyamian state, a new Cold War. On this background, my reply to you is as follows: is it because of the position expressed by you yesterday for a possible new Cold War such a statement will not become an alibi and in the name of Euro-Atlantic solidarity Bulgaria unreservedly to accept the unfavorable version of the current Transatlantic Partnership Treaty, which version, which the behavior of the Bulgarian government will damage the Bulgarian business, agriculture, ecology and, of course, I would put in the first place the trade union rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u188	A hole where you can answer the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u189	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, just one clarification I will make in my statement yesterday because it was largely misinterpreted. What I have said is that one of the risks to Bulgaria is geopolitically, not only in front of Bulgaria, but in front of the European Union, it is a similar geopolitical stagnation that we can possibly formulate as a new Cold War, that is, such opposition. We all hope it will not come to such a scenario, but it is a risk and no one can deny it. You know well the geopolitics and the development of the situation in Ukraine and you know that this is a possible risk and Bulgaria should speak it and put it in front of it. We all hope it doesn't come to that. From then on, the future partnership between the European Union and the United States is based on common principles and shared values that are compatible with the principles and objectives of the European Union's foreign policy, including the protection of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy, international security and the rule of law. Currently, the markets of the European Union and the United States are highly integrated, with the majority of tariff restrictions being reduced. The main challenge of the negotiations is overcoming non-tariff restrictions. As impact assessments show, the maximum benefits of the agreement are expected to be derived precisely from the removal of regulatory obstacles. This will be mostly in service to small and medium-sized enterprises. They will gain access to EU and US markets, which will contribute to creating new jobs and economic growth. The risk of an increase in unemployment exists, but this would be due to economic and financial factors rather than due to trade liberalisation. For example, Bulgaria's accession to the European Union did not have a negative impact on employment in our country. One of the objectives of a future agreement will be respect for international standards in the fields of environment, employment, consumer protection which comply with the laws of the European Union and of the Member States. The negotiating mandate of the European Union aims to prevent national standards being lowered in areas of social and social importance, such as environmental protection, public health, labour, security, defence, cultural and linguistic diversity. Member States will retain their right to introduce non-discriminatory measures in these areas. I would like to stress that, unlike some Member States of the European Union, which do not have bilateral investment contracts with the United States and advocate the position that the dispute investor. State should not be part of the agreement, Bulgaria has concluded a contract to protect investment with the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u190	Thank you. To you there is another question from the National Representative Magdalena Lambova Tasheva about the organized and announced week before that vandalized events of a group of bullying citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany who reached the border, cut up the old klon and tried to cut up the new impeding facility on the break with Turkey. Please, Mrs. Tasheva, you have the opportunity to ask the question and I remind you that it should be within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You saved me half a minute reading the question itself. I would like to say that on the site of the hooligans, unidentified persons with German passports, a scheme was also provided for the incoming Muslim aliens from Turkey to cut the wire fence. [[Shows schematic.]] They actually wanted to do a show, a demonstration with huge bolt cutters, flexes and metal cutters where, at which points, in which units. Here's how IKEA explains it on its schemes. [[shows diagram]] so as to destroy a facility that is closely related to Bulgaria's national security, for which the Bulgarian taxpayer paid over 7 million. BGN to defend itself in that section, which was most accessible to Turkish traffickers. Therefore, since we do not know who these persons are, we do not have the list of people who on two buses on Saturday versus Sunday between ten and two and ten in the night crossed Sofia from the Lion Bridge on the Constantinople Road we saw them and filmed them and left for the border. I personally saw that they were accompanied by six police patrols. Four walked to both buses and two others a little further back. A few questions arise here. As they reached the border, they cut up the old klon, which still performs wonderful animal health functions and protects our country from smugglers. They cut themselves, took pictures of themselves cutting, then they were allowed to go 200 meters away from the new remodeling facility. Those of you who were at the border, you know that there even a dump is difficult to reach. How they got there I don't know, but in primetime BNT served their PR for free, they picked up, yelled there something, picked up their scissors and flexes, that is, they made their PR, they gained worldwide fame, then our police, as appointed to perform the functions of a maid, led them to the border with Greece, where, of course, they were immediately disabled. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u192	Mrs. Tasheva, please state clearly the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u193	My question to Daniel Mitov is: Mr. Minister, what steps did you take on a note or any other inquiry to the German state that allowed its citizens to vandalize along the border of Bulgaria with Turkey, along the border of the European Union with the Islamic world? Did you call the German ambassador? We know that he very much likes to walk especially on your happenings and performances, he loves performances. What have you done to prevent a second repetition of this abuse of Bulgarian national security?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u194	Mrs. Tasheva, thank you your time is up, I warned you. Thanks for asking. Mr. Mitov, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I will limit my response only to what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done on a case which will be fully and clearly presented to the Bulgarian public by the media and factology, as fully as possible in the response of my colleague Mr. Veselin Vuchkov, to a question by your colleague Mr. Desislav Chukolov. I would only point out that the fact that you have a question differs from what was actually established in the case by the competent Bulgarian authorities, including in the part concerning the specific day of the case........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs established in a timely manner the preparation of an action of two non-governmental organizations based abroad, which is intended to take place at the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is also an external border of the European Union. At this time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs established direct cooperation with the Ministry of Interior as a competent office until the final conclusion of the case of the day. Thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Interior, specifically of the Directorate-General for Border Police, there have been no incidents, disturbance of public order, as well as unauthorised entry of participants in the border crossing, near the line of the state border and the area of the constructed engineering obstruction facility. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has undertaken all efforts and implemented all diplomatic instruments at its disposal, including contact with the embassies in Sofia of the countries of which they have arrived in Bulgaria to participate in the action. As a state member of the European Union and a country with established democracy and rule of law, Bulgaria and in this case demonstrates that it respects the right of each person to express his opinion freely, whether he is a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria or not. In this sense, the action of foreign citizens in Bulgaria was treated as an expression of certain views in the territory of a state... a member of the European Union in which all rights and freedoms are guaranteed, including the right to freedom of speech and expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u196	Thank you. Opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u197	Mr. Minister, the old klon is cut. We saw him on TV, they were filming each other. The old klon is cut by this crowd of gaming or vandals, if you like, who express their opinion with pliers and flexes. Thus, an opinion on the territory of the European Union is not expressed. It is clear that you are looking for a way to justify them, that is to say you do not perform the functions that put the Constitution and the laws of Bulgaria in foreign policy, to defend the national interest. You protect other interests, which, of course, does not surprise me at all. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u198	Mr. Mitov, an opportunity for a douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I have already said that some of the elements in your question differ from what was actually established in the case by the competent Bulgarian authorities, but I will let the Minister of Interior clarify these details with you, I will not go into any more specifics. I told you that we have taken all necessary diplomatic action and efforts with the tools we have to come into contact with the countries whose citizens have been involved in the action. It's done. We have protected the Bulgarian interest as it should as a state.. a member of the European Union and we will continue to do so. Be sure of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u200	Thank you, Minister Mitov. That's the end of the question for you. We are moving on to questions to Mr. Veselin Vuchkov, Minister of the Interior. The first question is from the MP Ivan Todorov Dimitrov concerning cells of radical Islam in the territory of several areas. Please, Mr. Dimitrov, develop your question within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u201	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In recent months, we have seen a number of publications about permanent radical organizations. It is clear to all of us that particularly dangerous are they in the regions of Silistra, Razgrad, Targovishte and Shumen. There are whole settlements where the Bulgarian language is not known to them. It is a public secret that emissaries roam these places, offering poor families to help them, but their help is in this: to send their children on a trip to Turkey. They'll get it if they follow the right path in quotes. A number of publications appear in national and local media, for more and more frequent raids of sects such as "Suleymangilar", "Nurgilar", "Nikshi Bandi", "Bozkurtlar", and others. Today, in the territory of these areas listed above by me, and in the whole country, there are people who say they are members of the "Bozkurtlar" or "The Grey Wolves" and that they have their symbols in their homes. This organization is considered terrorist even in Turkey, and today in Bulgaria there are emissaries who campaign for it. In this regard, we from the "Attack" ask: What do the services do in order to protect the state from potential sneaking and recruiting individuals who aim to spread and involve individual masses of the Bulgarian population in the confession of radical Islam and associated terrorist acts?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u202	Thank you for asking Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Vuchkov, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, regarding your question regarding cells of radical Islam in the territory of several areas, I present to your attention the following information. The collection and analysis of such intelligence information from external and internal sources is primarily the competence of the intelligence and counterintelligence institutions of the Republic of Bulgaria. I can therefore answer you only within the competence of the Ministry of Interior. Of course, there is also a connection between the interior ministry and this serious issue that you are asking, mainly in relation to the so-called migration policy, in which, of course, the Ministry of Interior has a commitment, even though the Agency for Refugees is outside the interior ministry. Migration Directorate at the Border Police Directorate General, as it is under the current law, conducts administrative control over the country's migration flows. In view of these flows, the State Agency of National Security, the National Intelligence Service, the Military Information Service at the Ministry of Defence have prepared a joint plan for coordination of the work with regard to the risks and threats to the Bulgarian National Security. An organization has been established for timely inspection of individuals in the informational arrays and, if necessary, the international exchange, which functions quite intensively. Analyses are constantly being conducted to assess the risk of a terrorist threat. Legal measures shall be taken to counter the criminal activity concerned when such intelligence is received by the abovementioned institutions or their accidental establishment by the Ministry of Interior operational and search services. In the implementation of a Decision of the National Operational Headquarters on crisis management, resulting from increased migratory pressure, such headquarters functions continuously in the country's territory, specialized police operations for the identification of illegally staying persons shall be carried out. In relation to the risk of potential penetration of recruiters in order to conduct terrorist activities, the Border Police is constantly preventing the control of external borders. In addition, I have a question on this occasion and I will have to answer it shortly, the detention places and accommodation facilities of foreigners are at Border Police, as well as at the Centers of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers are held with foreign nationals, jointly by officials of the State Agency of National Security, the National Intelligence Service, the Military Information Service at the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency for Refugees, in order to establish the reasons, reasons and intentions for their stay in the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u204	Thank you. Opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u205	Thank you. Mr. Minister, for the next time today you are giving extremely insufficient answers, not only to me, but also to colleagues who have previously asked questions. Since then, all internal ministers have assured that they will work on the issue that they will reduce the risks, but alas. Even at your time, the attack at Sarafovo airport took place at GERB in the previous term. I think I'm right. I hope that this time you will work more conscientiously than your fellow partymate, work on things not to happen such attacks, not to stand the Bulgarian in fear and wonder where some bomb, some explosion or something like that will come from. I apologize very much, but everyone assured that everything would be calm, that enough measures had been taken. But, alas, there are more and more such cases, there are more and more such signals. People don't talk anymore, they start talking. It's not like old times! We from Ataka Party, when we talked about it, everyone said: "You're crazy, it can't be like that, there's no such thing. On the contrary, there are such things and you are all witnesses here. Mr. Minister, we at Ataka will assure you that we will follow things even more closely and we will not stop asking such questions. We're not gonna stop making sure your performance is in place.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u206	Thank you. You have an opportunity for a duvet, Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Dimitrov, your question has been asked specifically, in writing and, of course, today by the parliamentary tribune what are the services doing? However, I would like to clarify a major anti-terrorism commitment, of course, not universally and comprehensively, but the main Ministry of Interior does not. You can track him in the form of parliamentary control. He's been very atrophied. I'll admit that with regard to intelligence services. The main anti-terrorism commitment is concentrated at the SANS, of course, together with the Ministry of Interior and many other institutions. Not that I have to run away from the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior has a strong commitment, especially in the context, as I said just now, of the migration processes to the country, but whether in the context of parliamentary control or in the form of some hearing in the committee it is an important issue and it is not at all to be underestimated, by the way, even in view of the upcoming changes in legislation. As we know, there will probably be a change in the Ministry of Interior Act in the SANS Act. For the first time in Bulgarian history there will also be a law on intelligence services. There will be changes, but they should not lead to a concussion of the services, especially in counterterrorism. They should be carefully assessed so that this continuous dislocation of functions, especially between the DANS and the Ministry of Interior, does not lead to a weakening of our capacity to fight, including against radical manifestations of some religious denominations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u208	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. Next question to you by the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov about reading literally, the beastly torture with a chainsaw in the village Malko Gradishte. Here you are, Mr. Chukolov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u209	Thank you. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Just a few words to say. According to the Ministry of Interior Act, the Ministry of Interior is taking care of national security. The Commission for Control of SANS and Special Services has not yet been established, so we ask you this question, as well as colleague Ivan Dimitrov. About the question I'm asking you. As you know, last week, I asked Prime Minister Bliznashki this question. The question concerns what happened in the village of Malko Gradishte, Haskovo. What happened out there? Typically, unfortunately, a scene that happens in many Bulgarian villages - elderly people are attacked and tortured until they tell where the little money is hidden and those who attack them then take the money and the police look for them, unfortunately, often unsuccessfully. This incident impressed the Bulgarian public with the exceptional manifestation of cruelty, with the fact that these elderly people were dragged. The old woman's scalp was severed. They were scared with a chainsaw on to tell us where their money was stashed. Then I asked Mr. Bliznashki the question, stressing that we must get an answer and there must be some retribution, must do as the office prime minister so that he can find these people. I gave him advice, I advised him, "Turn around Haskovo region, establish them, find them." Like, when a face gets shot, the whole police force down the street, let's focus this resource they have in Haskovo and find those criminals who did this. He told me that such an action was undertaken, a large-scale search party was underway. My question to you, Mr. Vuchkov, is: is there a result of this search? Have these criminals been identified? What would you do if you had any idea, a strategy, the ministry that you run how to do so that these elderly people who are really forgotten by a state, by a ministry and unfortunately, by their children, have some security at these old years, which at least we as a society owe them.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chukolov, I will not read the information written in advance by the administrative directorates of the Ministry of Interior because the case has become known to the entire Bulgarian public, who presented to us some pathetic scenes of violence. I have no contribution to the need to start working on more speedy operational and search services, including the Haskovo region in the municipality of Lyubimets, where the incident took place. There has been some development of the case since yesterday, so I would like to inform you without revealing details, because the disclosure of details will only prevent the disclosure of the truth and the bringing of potential perpetrators to justice. Thanks to the work primarily of Haskovo colleagues, of course, there was some help from the national level, was found and one of the mobile phones was found, as well as another moving item that was stolen during the incident in the home of the elderly, in a pawn shop. This was done with investigative actions under the supervision of the prosecution. This happened last night. There are individuals who have been identified who have taken the item in question to the pawnshop and are identified, and are detained. There's a case-by-case investigation going on right now. So I very much hope that the perpetrators of this ugly crime will be brought to justice. The accident is severe enough, so it's worth giving him, of course, attention here. But more importantly, perhaps the other question is what efforts to take to limit at least this scourge, called "conventional, mass domestic crime," although these are not exact criminological terms. Whatever we're talking about, it's about a stronger police presence again. People just want to see more uniformed police in the settlements. This will be undertaken, although the Ministry of Interior has a very difficult financial situation at the moment.. more than 213 million old debts only, and in order to have more uniformed police officers, there must primarily be salaries for them. We are going to make internal restructuring.Civil employees do not need to stand in the offices, should be among the people. But there is one other thing that is very important: not just uniformed police, but there must be an effective investigation. This is done with greater training of police officers, better training of police officers, more forensic technique and work with traces of the PPC to bring the perpetrators to justice. Everything else is naked talk. I hope we can succeed on this mission, at least limit this scourge. If anyone promises to liquidate him, they'll just lie. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u212	Would you like a line, Mr. Chukolov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u213	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're getting closer to the perpetrators of this atrocity. You say yes, such presence should be provided in small villages. This is ours, an attack, an insistence from 2005. We insist on it, we have offered various initiatives................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Everything to be legal, clear and clarified, no shady areas where these voluntary squads become something none of us want. In the village of Malko Gradishte until recently had and collected money to give a private company to protect them. Tomorrow night there's a community meeting where people will decide again who can spare how much to hire some security guards to stay in the village. It's like... there are movies both American and Japanese about it. Is this where we brought Bulgaria, to use a cliché with the most police per capita, to make sure that we can't protect our elderly parents? In the last term, Minister Jovchev had initiatives in which he sent the police into rural areas, saying he used them. You said that the term wasn't the right one, conventional crime and so on, it's gypsy crime, so let's face it. Go and ask the people there, they will tell you about these loggers of gypsy origin. They terrorize the elderly, not just in this village. If it were only in this village, we would do something else, but this is all over Bulgaria. Prepare a comprehensive concept, pass the Law on Volunteering! Let us give the opportunity for those who have the right to defend themselves to really have that right. Accept our amendments to the Penal Code of Inescapable Self-Defense. Then you'll see how very abruptly things will change. It's just that when the perpetrator knows that when he comes in, he may not come out of this house alive, you'll see how they stop these derbys and how things will suddenly change. We from Ataka have introduced these bills, amendments to the laws. My request to the representatives of all parliamentary groups is that when the bills enter the plenary, they support us.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u214	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u215	Just three things, if I may, very briefly? First of all, you mentioned volunteering. This isn't about the Law of Volunteering. It is about institutes which eliminate the public danger of a necessary defence and extreme necessity. Yeah, maybe something needs to change in these criminal justice institutes to enable people to defend themselves against attacks a little more qualitatively. However, this is a topic that needs to be discussed in more detail in order not to make any mistake. Secondly, you mentioned the huge number of police officers in Bulgaria. I am most responsible to tell you that this mass launch of the thesis that Bulgaria has the most police per capita is simply false. In 2010, the state number of the Ministry of Interior was first released. When doing such comparative and legal analyses, especially from foreign countries, which are constantly telling us what to look like Bulgarian institutions, we need to know what content we are putting into the concept of police. A police officer in Bulgaria is one thing, in other countries is another. There, for example, do not include gendarmerie, because there are no gendarmes in many countries. There are no border police in most countries. Not to mention the fire department that it is outside the structures of the Ministry of Interior in many countries. Suddenly our criteria carry him there. No, there are not many policemen per capita in Bulgaria. It's a delusion. For this reason, the financing of the Ministry of Interior is not as big as it is believed. Here I expect support when we discuss the budget update, at least to pay off the debts for this year that we have inherited, including because of the new Ministry of Interior Act; and a little more meaningful funding for next year, because otherwise nothing will happen, especially with regard to this strong migration pressure, where money is also needed. And thirdly, lastly, you mentioned, there is a National Security Program that has been launched by the previous government for several months. By the way, it is funded by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It's completely out of order. People were selected on the territory of the country, and not by the mayors, although they should control them during the day, but by the district governors. So what do they do?! They put on green T-shirts, where a person will think at the very first moment that he writes "DANS" and this is the National Program "Secure" of the Ministry of Labour. They don't do anything because no one controls them. By bicycle they go to the final house or outside the village, the evening can eventually come back. That's what all the mayors in the country I've been to will tell you. It's just a waste of money! So we'd better give it to the professional police so we can have more peace. Sorry about the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u216	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. There is a second question from the MP Desislav Chukolov concerning the action of German activists at the Bulgarian border. We're listening, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u217	Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My colleague from "Attack" (Attack) Magdalena Tasheva asked Foreign Minister Mitov on this issue what Bulgaria is up to in terms of our foreign policy. I will ask you what Bulgaria has done with what is happening here, inside Bulgaria. As you know, German radical activists organised on Facebook, generously assisted by German taxpayers and NGOs, come here, enter Bulgarian territory with the intention to go to the Bulgarian-Turkish border and destroy it, to destroy the barrier that we have been talking about since the issue of these illegal aliens was raised. We were talking about making a fence, as there is in Greece, Spain and elsewhere, a fence to prevent this free movement. However, they from Germany decided to come here to Bulgaria and destroy this fence. It's like having a Bulgarian think about going to Germany, cutting, shoving, diving, and doing some shit?! And they come here, in Bulgaria, which is clear, it has been warned, we from the air of the TV station "Alfa" we talked and said that such a thing should not be allowed; they are coming to Bulgaria, heading towards the southern border, claiming that they have travelled for 50 hours see what a huge effort they have made! They come here and naturally, yes, the Bulgarian police there stop them. The information we have is that it has come to a tearing of police panels by these German activists. The information is from Channel 1, Bulgarian National Television. I'm going to quote something exactly from BNT's website: it's come to shoving, trying to get behind the cordon from different countries and torn police panels. Therefore, my question to you, Minister, is: how many of these German radical activists are detained here in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria because they have allowed themselves to behave this way?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chukolov, in response to your question, I will inform you of the following. Indeed, on the line of international police cooperation, but not only on its line, including through information from Bulgarian MEPs, we received information at the end of last week about the intention of a group of activists from a non-governmental organization to visit the Republic of Bulgaria in order to conduct a planned protest action under the motto. This information was received in the Ministry of Interior and written by Mr. Dzhambazki, MEP, Member of the European Parliament. On November 8th, around 22.00 p.m. at the border crossing, Kalotina is entering the territory of the country two buses with a total of 95 people, of which 85 people from Germany and the other 10 from different nationalities, including journalists, representatives of the Center for Political Beauty and Combat Group against inhumanity. They are also informed of the legal provisions regarding their stay in Bulgaria and the actions they can carry out. Of course, they are informed that they are not entitled to enter the special protection zone of the border strip without special permission from the competent authorities. They are eligible for entry and residence in the territory of the country, so they are guaranteed the smooth movement. By 1:00 on November 9th, the buses with activists arrived in the area of the village of Golyamo Dervènt. This reported to me personally the Director of Border Police who was there. In my opinion, there was no need for a higher-level supervisor to go there than the interior ministry. The information, of course, flowed and reflected in the Bulgarian media. A conversation was held by police teams on the ground with the leaders of the event and was mainly explained to them that they were not allowed to enter the border without special permission. They didn't have that kind of permission. An official police notice of non-entry into the border line was issued on the group's approach to 247 border pyramids. After further clarification that they will not be admitted to the engineering-obstruction facility that was built, the participants withdraw to the village of Golyamo Dervènt under constant supervision of police officers. By 18:00 the buses set off in the direction of the Bulgarian-Greek border, which the Greek border authorities were informed of in due time. They're going to the wall between Greece and Turkey, but if they got there, I can't tell you. I should point out that there have been no reasons and reasons for the arrest of persons all the time, because this is your question of how many persons have been detained. There was no need at all, because I was following the question of using physical force and assistance from the employees of the Ministry of Interior. There was no rifling of pagons, despite the spread of information in the public domain. They're just warned they won't step foot in the border zone. After a few pictures, they head for the Bulgarian-Greek border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u220	The line, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u221	Mr. Minister, it turns out National Television is lying. And other times, by the way, we've caught the National Television in violation, especially when it doesn't reflect the activities of Ataka. But this time, yes, National Television lied. What made me very impressed? They come to the Bulgarian-Turkish border, they don't get things, they go to the Greek-Turkish border. In fact, on the border of Christianity with the Muslim world. Some of the leaders of this group, yes, are German citizens, but of Turkish origin. And you can see how their desire to be gone is that limit they apply it. They want to practically cut the border, bring their media to reflect that. Why? Well, just like that, let the Muslim world, from the Middle East, enter Christian Europe with all sorts of elements. You remember the state of Islam, their categorical intention to make Europe Muslim. And they tell each other that openly and work on it. What are we doing here in Europe? We're doing gay parades. So, Minister, this fence must be built to the end and in no way should you succumb and bend to future such provocations.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary? No. Question of the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov concerning a decision of the Ministry of Interior for the establishment of a Center for the Accommodation of Illegal Emigrants or Arrest in the City of Ruse. We're listening to your question, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the House! In my reception room as a national representative and as a resident of the city of Ruse in my contacts with the Russians I found out that information had leaked that a Center or Arrest for the Accommodation of Illegal Emigrants would be established in Ruse. This information the Russians acquired from a statement by former minister of service Yordan Bakalov here at the National Assembly, on October 30th, when we discussed the migratory pressure on our country. I want you to know that Russian citizens, we, as a political party, will strongly oppose the creation of any kind of facilities in Ruse or near the city of Ruse. The danger on the streets and near the town of Ruse of foreign persons, lawbreakers, keeps the Russian public in suspense. The fears of the Russians and us, as a political force, stem from the fact that illegal immigrants, criminals come from areas of blood-stricken war, Syria, Iraq. Moreover, it is known that some of them have already gained combat experience in these conflict zones, and their goal is also to build sleeper cells of Islamic fundamentalism in Bulgaria. The Ataka party warns that the construction of temporary residence facilities even for the detention of illegal migrants is a real danger that these facilities will be located in national security sites, objects of national importance. In this regard, I ask you to answer: when and which location in the city of Ruse is intended to create such a centre, with what capacity? What funds will be needed by the Ministry of Interior to reconstruct the planned premises? What services of your ministry will take care of the security of the site in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u224	For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, in response to the question asked about the intention of the Ministry of Interior to create the Center for the Accommodation of Illegal Emigrants in Ruse, I will answer the following: the Ministry of Interior has no plans and activities planned to include the establishment of the Center for the Accommodation of Illegal Emigrants in the town of Ruse. This is a very important clarification. It's not about the center at all. I specifically checked the information, including with the help of local MPs. Indeed, on 22 October 2014 the Ministry of Interior held a working meeting with the management of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria................................. about this increased immigration pressure. And specific measures were identified to counter the channelling activity. During the meeting the district prosecutor of Ruse Mr. Georgiev raised a question about insufficient capacity of the premises for temporary accommodation of persons in detention on the territory of the city. This is not a differentiated approach, which is being held by a police authority in connection with any crime or that they are illegally crossing the border. These are classic police arrests for 24-hour detention. Inadequacy is found by the prosecution. In this regard, with a view to increasing the number of detainees, including illegal migrants, at the exit of the Bulgarian-Romanian border, in the new plan to implement the measures to increase preparedness for response and to the expected increased migratory pressure along the border, action will be put in place in 2015 for the reconstruction and repair of an existing premises in the building of the border police station in Ruse. And setting up a temporary accommodation for detained persons. In the performance of art. 73 of the Ministry of Interior Act illegal immigrants will be detained in a room for 24 hours, after which they will be accommodated in specialized homes for temporary accommodation of foreigners. They are in the town of Lyubimets, in Sofia and in the distribution center in Elhovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u226	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u227	Dear Mr. Vuchkov, it became clear that in Ruse there will be an arrest for illegal immigrants who crossed the Bulgarian border or tried to cross the Bulgarian border that broke the Bulgarian laws. It has also become clear that your ministry will not be able to cope with the migratory pressure, as you call it, and you are already predicting where to keep them. It's not preventative to stop them down at the southern border or at any other border. The Inner Ministry's inability to deal with the refugees in Bulgaria is evident. It seems that the issues of illegal immigrants serve political interest in the face of the now ruling parties, which are not only related to the sewerage in Bulgaria, but are related to many other criminal intentions. I want you to know that the political party "Attack" and the Russian public do not want any kind of object on Ruse's territory for the detention of illegal immigrants. And tell me, please, within 24 hours, how will you identify 30 people detained, for example, by Syria? How will you find out which of them is an extreme Islamist or with any other intentions is in Bulgaria? This issue, which we are currently raising from Ataka, is also the basis for a referendum in the city of Ruse, whether the Russians want to have on the territory of Ruse even arrest for illegally crossing the border, or trying to cross the border migrants. So this is the beginning of a series of questions that we from Ataka will ask to you and we will hold you responsible for you and your wards in the Ministry for who will be responsible illegal immigrants, except that they will be allowed in the future in Bulgaria, but they will also walk the streets at least in the most European city in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u228	A hole, Mr. Vuchkov? You won't use it. There was a question followed by the MP Georgi Kadiev, who he has postponed on purpose. We will now hear the question of the MP Miglena Alexandrova about exceeding the rights of officials of the Ministry of Interior on protesters citizens in front of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Mr. Minister, on 7 November this year before the National Assembly there was a protest against the formation of a new government by the parties GERB, Reformist Block and the two crutches - Patriot Front and ABB. The event was held by the country at the official entrance to the National Assembly. There were also activists of the party "Ataka" and many other citizens. The protest was peaceful. However, the Ministry of Interior officials exceeded their rights by exerting violence on spontaneously gathered citizens, including former MPs. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: has the case been checked? [[GERB lines.]] If so, what results did it bring?
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u230	Please, no lines. Minister Vuchkov's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, on 7 November, this was last Friday, when the new Council of Ministers was elected, during a plenary session of the Forty-third National Assembly in the area of the building was held unregulated mass event. About 350 protesters with stretched posters and flags block the movement of motor vehicles on one of the neighboring streets. Their attempt to create riots is limited by police cordon, with police officers preventing it from being torn apart without the use of physical force and assistance, I stress. At 10:00 last Friday, protesters head to the National Assembly's reception hall, being stopped by a police cordon and not allowed into the secure zone. At 10:20 p.m., the protesters begin to smash the cordon in order to tear it apart and invade the secure zone. This is not allowed without the use of physical force and assistance. Followed by actions that violate public order, throwing eggs at police officers, as well as some hard objects, such as bottles and handles of flags, on the building of the National Assembly and police cordons. There's damage to the uniforms of the police officers from the thrown eggs, and there's torn pockets. During the protest, violations of the Road Traffic Act were also found. On the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act a person has been detained, spotted throwing eggs at police officers, on which an act has been drawn to establish an administrative violation of the Anti-Little Bullying Act. Until now, the Ministry of Interior and the DVR has not received information about the excess of police powers in public order and traffic security before, during and after the illegal mass event on the territory of Sofia, around the parliament last Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u232	The line is Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u233	Mr. Secretary, you're lying. [[Laughter and shouts: "E-e-e-e-e" by GERB]] Because here in front of me is the last issue of the newspaper "Attack" [[Laughter at GERB]] And now I'm gonna show you pictures of cops hitting peaceful citizens who didn't do anything. Besides, I'll show you the wounds of these citizens. These are stoplights from the TV station, Alpha. We also have them on tape. If you haven't found out there's been police violence, we'll help you. We have recordings in the TV station Alpha. We will provide them to you. I'll leave you with the newspaper Ataka. [[Passing the newspaper to Minister Veselin Vuchkov. Single applause by "Attack."]] So check the case and do what you have to do. Otherwise, we at Ataka understand that you are continuing Tsvetanov's case and intend to turn Bulgaria into a police state. [[Reply from MP Vladimir Toshev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u234	A hole, Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u235	Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, no, I have no such intention of turning Bulgaria into a police state. There'll probably be protests. There's nothing to lie about. There has been before, there will probably be an essential element of any European democracy protesting citizens. But I beg, if I may, that police officers are not involved in this political intrigue. The police have had enough with the migration pressure and the security of protests all year around the National Assembly. Protests provoked precisely by a decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u236	Because of Attack!
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u237	However, if, since there has not been an alert in the SDVR so far, as even the alleged crimes, or administrative violations during this rally last Friday, please submit detailed ones.......................................................................................................... If you have evidence of crimes committed, as you claim in your question, by police officers, file them to the prosecution, not to me in plenary. If there are any other violations, they will obviously be administrative, there is even an Administrative Prosecutor's Office, a vertical structure, or even in the Ministry of Interior, to do appropriate checks, and not merely to claim that police violence was exercised last Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva's last question regarding the evidence reported stolen in the case against the former President of the Commission for the establishment and prevention of conflict of interest, Philip Zlatanov, has been withdrawn since we had a deliberate debate on this issue this morning. Mr. Vuchkov, thank you for participating in today's plenary day. Last question of Mr. Willi Lilkov to Minister Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, concerning the amount of fees for passing cars through. Please develop the question, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u239	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, honourable colleagues, Minister Moskovski! My question is related to the charge for passing cars through the Danube Bridge 2 and it consists of the following. At present, the fee for passing through the "Danube Bridge 2" in one direction for passenger cars is 6 euros and the revenue from the fees collected in one month in both directions is between 850 thousand and 1 million. $250,000. Euros. At the same time, the total amount collected from passenger car charges is around 50 thousand. EUR, which represents an average of around 5% of the monthly fee. At the same time, the crossing fee for the Danube Bridge 1 and Romania is 2 euros, and Bulgaria is 3 euros, which is three and twice cheaper, respectively, compared to the crossing fee for Vidin and Calafat. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: Firstly, does the Bulgarian side intend to put before our Romanian partners the issue of reducing the bridge crossing fee at Vidin and Calafat for passenger cars, I particularly stress Secondly, is there an opportunity when negotiating the new fees to raise the issue of preferential charges for passenger cars and buses registered in the territory of Vidin and the respective border Romanian area in order to stimulate individual and business travel between them, which are known to be among the least developing and, more precisely, backward regions in Romania and Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u240	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov, for that question. Mr. Minister, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, as you know, on the project for the construction of a cross-border road bridge on the Danube River at Vidin, the Bulgarian side is responsible for the design and construction of the entire bridge over the Danube River, including for resisting the Romanian coast. An Agreement was signed on 28 February 2013 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Romania on the establishment of a joint structure of the new combined road-rail bridge between the two sides of the Danube River between the cities of Vidin. On 14 June 2013, the shareholders' company "Danube Bridge" at Vidin "Calafat" was entered in the Trade Register with the city of Vidin and with the subject of activity "Management, operation and maintenance of the combined bridge." On the same date, the facility was put into operation. By Decree No 134 of 14 June, the Council of Ministers determined the amount of the fees for crossing road vehicles on the new bridge collected by the joint commercial shareholder company of the bridge operator. As the amount of crossing fees on..Danube Bridge 2 is determined by a decision of the two governments. The Bulgarian and Romanian, it is necessary to hold consultations between them on the possible reduction of these charges for the passage of cars in both directions. This would be possible after taking into account the way revenues from passenger car charges have been generated by the facility for the past year and a half of operation of the facility. Just for comparison, I can point out that at the nearly 60 years of the Ruse Bridge, the fees for cars were reduced by the Bulgarian side from 6 to 2 euros with the Order of the Council of Ministers of 2009 on the direction of Bulgaria.. Romania, while the fees for moving from Romania to Bulgaria were reduced by the Romanian side to 3 euros only in September 2013. During the past period, from mid-June 2013 to end-October 2014, the number of motor vehicles passing on Danube Bridge-2 in both directions is around 750 thousand and from the beginning of 2014 to November is expected to pass around half a million vehicles. The Bulgarian side has invited the Romanian side for consultations to discuss the percentage of investments invested by the two countries in the construction of the bridge and the adjacent infrastructures. We are currently waiting for a response from the Romanian side. We didn't get one for a date like this. At this meeting, it is also planned to discuss the possibility of making a proposal to both parties to reduce these charges for passing light cars along the facility in both directions. Regarding the specific question of the possibility of introducing preferential fees or discounts for the residents of the two districts of Vidin and the respective Romanian country of Dolge for registered on their territory motor vehicles, I can point out that such action can be seen as a discriminatory act, including because a large number of vehicles with Bulgarian registration in these areas are used by Romanian citizens avoiding the eco-taxes collected by the Romanian side for eco-automobiles. There's a big difference in the ecotaxes that get paid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u242	Line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u243	Thank you, Mr. Moskovsky. From your answer, I understand that you will put this issue in the forthcoming negotiations with the Romanian side, especially to reduce the fee for passenger cars. Therefore, thank you and I hope that you will keep me informed in some way, as I have made a commitment to the citizens of Vidin. Regarding the other question, it is not related to ecotaxes. I know that in order to avoid high charges, Romanian cars are registered on the territory of Vidin Municipality, but this is only about cars registered on the territory of Vidin and the respective Romanian municipality. I'd just be grateful if you could explain to me exactly what discrimination is going to be. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u244	It's a hole, Mr. Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Lilkov, on the first topic, I'm explaining why it's not an easy process. We have also stated in the election campaign of Party GERB that we will work hard on this case. The bridge was built with joint funds from the European Investment Bank, which are loaned funds of almost 100 million, and resources from ISPA. Therefore, so calculated the fees currently serve respectively the lending relationship between Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. A change in these fees must certainly be agreed with them, as well as with the European Commission. Of course, it's a question of analysis, of calculation and impact assessment. It should be weighed if the charges are eventually reduced, respectively it may increase traffic, it is a question of effective calculations whether the burden on the repayment of the loan funds that have been granted to this facility will in any way change in any way or another compensatory mechanism will have to be sought. Will the bank agree eventually, if these funds decrease, to reschedule over a longer period of time the payment of the facility? On the second topic, I think we will also find a mutual option in which people living in both regions will receive relief. I am ready for a proper discussion on this matter. The constructions of the Ministry, which are responsible for the work with this company, are open to a proposal and to discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2014-11-14.u246	Thank you, Mr. Moskovski, for participating in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question in this control. The next plenary session is extraordinary on Tuesday, starting at 11.00. The first item will be the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Health Insurance Act, and the second point will be the Law for amendment and supplement of the Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
