ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u1	As I announced at the beginning, allow us to continue the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after an extraordinary session has been concluded, which we have just completed. I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the decision I announced earlier. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Victory by Jelinčič nobles, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Franz Pukšič, Sam Bevk, Bogdan Barovič, Jožef Kavticnik, Franci Rokavec, Ivan Kebric, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Anton Partljič, Peter Levič, Alojz Peterle, Valentin Pohorec, Dorijan Marcič and Andrej Fabjan. Since we will also be present for the regular session, please press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. There are 44 of us present. I think there are more of us in the hall, so I would like to ask for this moment's attention to make the decision that is urgently needed. Next time we figure out the presence. There are 48 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. With regard to the 10th meeting of the assembly, I note that the following items of the agenda remain unfinished: - point 6, the proposal for a law on the safety of inland navigation, - point 9, the proposal for a feed law, - point 19, the proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of Slovenian ironworks; and - point 26, elections and appointments. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that those points be transferred to one of the future meetings of the Assembly. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the representatives of the groups of Members may present their views and the debate of Members is not possible. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Školč, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask, if possible, to take advantage of the opportunity that the leader of the parliamentary group has not decided or announced that, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask that we complete the point of election and appointment by appointing a judge who is ready to act, but we have not done this point, because that was the request of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group at the time; the other judges have sworn.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. However, this proposal, if adopted, requires at least that the services provide us with material so that we can decide on the proposal for a decision on appointment. In view of the well-founded proposal and the fact that we are at the 10th meeting of the assembly, I also invite the opposition representatives to join us if we decide and make a point of election and appointment in the 10th session. I invite the opposition representatives to join us because we're going to move on to break 26. It's on the line of day, it's on love and naming. Within the framework of the 26th agenda item, the assembly suspended this item on a proposal from the Socialist Party's Group before voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Zlata Schmidt Ipavec to the judicial function of the court to the judge's seat at the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. On this occasion, of course, I give the floor to the representative of the Socialist Party's Group because the representatives, although we have invited them to the meeting, are not among us, we will move to a decision on that motion for a decision, on a motion for a decision on appointment, on the election of Mrs Zlata Schmidt Ipavec to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 26th item of the agenda. The other proposals shall be forwarded to one of the following meetings. We are voting on the proposed decision to transfer the four points I have previously mentioned to one of the future meetings. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I also conclude the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much and good-bye.
