ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and are unable to attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Sašo Pece, Yuri Malovra for the afternoon part of the session, Majda Spending from 16.00 p.m., Feri Horvat for the start of the session, Anton Delak for the start of the session, Leopold Grošelj until 10.45 p.m., also Cyril Pucko and Ivan Bozič, Janez Podobnik until 12.00 p.m., Jože Tanko for the start of the session, mag. Zoran Gračner for the afternoon part of the session, Matjaž Švagan for the beginning of the session, Anton Partljič and Aloise Peterle. Since we will be able to determine the presence in the hall, I respectfully ask you to insert the cards. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask for your attention because we will be able to determine the presence of the Chamber. We're detecting a presence. There are 44 of us present. I think there's more of us in the hall, so once again I'd like to ask for your attention. Next time, we'll find out who's here. We're detecting a presence. There are 44 of us present. There's a lot more of us in the hall. Actually, we're 15 minutes behind schedule, which is certainly not a good example for us. In accordance with the rules of procedure, I have to stop work in 15 minutes. We'll continue at 10.27 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u2	Your Honor! May I have your attention, please? For the third time, we will determine our presence to see if we are in a position to make a decision. This is the third time we've detected presence. There are 63 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We have also invited representatives of the government, Mr State Secretary, to attend today's meeting, which I welcome very much between us. Today's continuation of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 18th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Security Contributions Act. The assembly will then move on to the 20th item, this is a proposal for a law amending the tax procedure law and then in order of order. So we move on to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Contributions to Social Security, Rapid Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Koncan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u3	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government has proposed a new law for two reasons in particular. First of all, it can be noted that the cumulative contribution rate for compulsory health insurance has been 13.25% for several years now, and this is an income that is guaranteed for all rights and injuries at work and occupational diseases. In the past years, this represented a fairly stable financial source of income for the normal operation of the institution, i.e. to provide financial resources for the exercise of all these rights by law. However, in 2000, and above all in 2001, there was a real increase in expenditure, which significantly exceeds real revenue growth, which led the government to propose an appropriate increase in the rate of contribution under this Act by 0.20 percentage points. This increased contribution rate will essentially increase the burden on employers, i.e. not workers, but employers, as well as the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. The estimated financial impact, which will be an additional source of income from the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, will be estimated at about 5.8 billion tolars. This is also in line with the amendment of the second law proposed by the Government, but this is on the agenda of the second meeting of the National Assembly. In doing so, we are also burdening these same employers with an amendment to the pay tax law, where the burden of employers is reduced to a similar extent. With this change or amendment of these two laws, which are substantively linked, the government is essentially merely structurally changing fiscal revenues to the benefit of the direct income of the health insurance institution in order to partially mitigate, I would say, this hole or deficit of the health insurance institution, which, according to one estimate of the institution at this time, is estimated to be at a weak 11 billion, according to forecasts by the end of the year if trends were similar to those of the past 10 months, to a weak 13 billion. The Government is therefore explicitly proposing that an increase of 0.20% of this rate of contribution should therefore be increased, as the parent committee has also concluded and adopted individual conclusions, so that activities for rationalisation in the implementation of the scope of the rights should be further accelerated within the institution itself, in particular to analyse the overall issue of the price of the medicinal products, particularly from the producer to the final consumer, so as not to simply fill the "bianco" in this way, in essence, with a cashier, without a critical assessment of whether all the incentives and all the envisaged real expenditure are actually higher. That is the point, and the government therefore proposes to adopt it quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, Mr France Cukjat will present the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u5	Your Honor! Of course, the bill aims to regulate and harmonise the expenditure and revenues of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, to reduce the deficit that threatens us. However, taking into account the situation created last year and this year, this is an increase in wages, a strong increase in drug expenditure, given that they have been radically irritated and, on the other hand, new, more effective medicines are being introduced, which are mandatory high-priced products, the introduction of value added tax, which has had a major health impact, a greater scale of health programmes imposed on us by demographic change, that is, the ageing of the population, since the elderly patient is five to ten times more expensive for the country than for health care than for young people. If all of this is taken into account, then we are at risk of last year's deficit of up to 3.5 billion medical bills this year, $12.13 billion. This change in the contribution rate, which is planned here, means some cosmetics, which in no way essentially solves the problem of the deficit that threatens us. On the other hand, nominal growth in gross social income is higher than nominal growth in the contribution rate. And according to the purchasing power of the inhabitants, if we compare the share of the purchasing power of the Slovenians, which we use for health care, with the share of the European population, their purchasing power, the share of this purchasing power that they use for health, we are on the tail of the scale, and we will be even more on the tail. The current contribution rate of 6.4% will not yet be corrected by this law. In fact, in the National Health Programme, we have set ourselves the task of reaching European comparable levels in due course, that is 7% of the gross social income for health. The proposal that we are given is irrelevant cosmetics, of course it does not mean deterioration, but it does not mean solving the basic problem of the health treasury, the problem that threatens us in this and in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Mr Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u7	Nice greetings to my friends and friends! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, good afternoon! First of all, I must point out that I am surprised that the Minister of Health does not sit in this Chamber. Apparently, he's not interested in medical bills. Therefore, I wonder whether it is important, on behalf of New Slovenia, to speak a word now, because the Minister is most responsible for the functioning of this area. I hope that he will join us and answer the questions raised. The law, which is in the process of adoption, tries to solve complications and problems with stored medical bills by 0.2%. The law is necessary, but what the Minister proposes is not enough. In the first sense, that is to say financial, and that is to say other things. The explanation of the law already states, the applicant states that this is all the result of a tight financing policy, as well as internal inconsistencies and insufficient management of operating costs. It's actually self-criticism. So it would still be necessary for the minister to sit down and tell us what this is all about and how he intends to solve these problems. The deficit in the cash register is, of course, the result of other things. Prices of pharmaceutical products are certainly a factor in this. The price of pharmaceutical products passes part of the budget value to the capital oligarchs. The healthcare system has a type of holes, it does not control the type of opportunistic costs that could and could be eliminated. They could be eliminated without affecting the reduction of the quality of services, by appropriate capacity allocation, with waiting periods, by reducing waiting periods, by using technology, by personnel, by employees. Apparently, the minister doesn't have time to deal with these things. The government and the government coalition were engaged in how to go to electrovetic reproduction, how to place condoms in schools, how to fairly distribute needles for drug addicts. This is clearly the central issue of the health system in this Slovenia. But the real problems are running out of time. And, of course, the money is running out. Still, even if we accept this, raising the rate, which will also burden business operations or individuals, we do not solve the deficit problem. It is obvious that this health treasury will take the same path as the pension fund, depending on the policy. By providing the necessary funds, the lack of funding from the budget, the responsibility for the system is increasingly transferred to the country, to politics. This also reduces the efficiency of the system. Clearly, then, what we accept today is just one drop. Once again, I ask questions from the Minister, who is still missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you. We have heard representatives of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to my apologies, on behalf of the Group of Members, no, on behalf of myself. [[...]] Does anyone else want to present the opinion of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give my word to Members and Members, the debate is limited to five minutes. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. The purpose of this law is the same as it is, and we have talked about this purpose quite extensively also on the working body which discussed the subject of this law as an interested working body - this is the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. On this working body, we also wanted to do what I think would be necessary, in this sense, which we find that this law does not solve. This proposal intervenes, the proposal of this law interferes with the state of record, which is present in one of the largest public cash registers or public funds, if we say so, in the Health Insurance and Health Service. The proposal is well-intentioned, but it does not resolve the visibility that is present in the healthcare and insurance system. The Ministry of Finance knows this well, given that it is an integral part of the budget that we are adopting, also the financial plan of the Health Insurance Institute and what is also happening this year in view of the non-equity situation. The funds provided by the revised rate of contribution are not, by any chance, those funds which would enable the health or health insurance institution to function in a stable manner in the sense of ensuring the same rights as they have been avoided and which are established in the system of insurance through the plurality of the health insurance assembly. Therefore, I am personally convinced whether it is good to hear or not about the electoral body, what this law proposes does not solve the health care situation, and it is reasonable to resolve it now, or whether this state council or this government will be forced to give new solutions, or any one that is forced to give new solutions in a very short time. I am convinced, in view of the emancipated system or established system in our healthcare and health insurance, that this measure is also unfair. We can't just burden one part of the system - it's employers. I understand that this rate of contribution that we are modifying is also small because, for a large proportion of the liabilities to users or to insurers, this is for all pensioners, the employer’s title is made public budget. That is why this rate is also reasonably so low and I also support it that it is not particularly large. However, I think that due to a fair approach to the system it is necessary to burden or increase the contribution rate for insurers in the same percentage. I think that such a measure would be at least as unilateral as it would be in this title. But I think I'd be fairer. I know that, for such and other reasons, the health insurance company will be further burdened day after day and sooner than later we will have to admit, the biggest consumer of health insurance services paid through the insurance company is this part of the segment of people in our society who are mostly older. And they're also the main pressure element on the money from the health department. So, given the 500,000 people and the health burden, it will be very soon to consider a certain burden on pensioners, a minimum burden. We, society as a whole, would say, have gotten used to exploiting the entire service system. And this service system also needs to be financially maintained. And you can't, I'd say, just two-thirds of the whole society, but society as a whole will have to influence it as a whole in solidarity and in the system as it escapes. I think we need to make changes in this law right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I listened attentively to the presentation by the Secretary of State, and I was very struck in his presentation by the fact that in the assessment of the Ministry of Finance, this is an appropriate increase. Of course, we all understand and he himself explained that it is not appropriate, because he only covers a small part of what we now know is the expected deficit in 2001. So we expect 5.8 billion. In fact, if trends are what they are, we know that they have appeared by the end of the year to be a deficit of 13 billion. So the first question is, how is this going to cover up? The Insurance Office will be in charge of where he will be in charge, how he will be in debt, and why this is a better solution than any other, why they have decided to do so. Then I would also like to point out that in our assessment of the situation, the government is proposing and saying that "from the second half of 2000 onwards, the monthly expenditure of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute exceeds the monthly income, which leads to a deficit," and here is the emphasis, "which cannot be covered by further rationalisation measures in health care but only by additional resources". Very interesting. At the beginning of this meeting, we asked Mr Prime Minister and asked him, among other things, about his personal position, and of course about the way in which we buy medicines and finance the pharmaceutical industry in Slovenia, as well as those abroad. You can review the magnetogram, Mr President has agreed that this is the right approach. Well, there's something else to be done. But what's interesting is that the government here tells us that it's impossible, just new resources. This is what we miss most in this proposal. The Health Insurance Office is funding part of the system, but where the real sector is, it is said, a real demander - this is the Ministry of Health. How our government works in this area; how can they say that nothing can be done, just that we have additional resources. Dear colleagues, we are going in the wrong way, this is the wrong systemic solution. Over the decades and decades it has been an autonomous institution that has received its contributions through a partnership between employers and employees. All of a sudden, we're going back on this road to hide through the budget, dropping a little fog, "ah, because it's just going to be one, and the other doesn't." Yeah, well, where does the money come from?Oh, my God! Yeah, someone's gonna cover it - he's gonna cover the budget! We'll have to cover this through the budget. That's a fact. The only way we can solve this is if we have a rational approach to the system on our own, and this is in the Ministry of Health. Mr Prime Minister himself acknowledged that it was very possible, and he also agreed that if we had a different approach in the field of pharmaceutical services, we might be able to save something. Yes, of course, because that's what Germany does, that's what Great Britain does, that's what Belgium does, that's what France does! In August, however, we had the month when this law was being prepared, and we said nothing could be done. Not only did we say nothing, but again in August the Minister adopted a more relaxed approach, as far as the negotiations are concerned, or there is no negotiation, but there is no control over pharmaceutical prices in Slovenia. This way that we quickly wave the various holes that appear, and once they are discovered, we try to push under the carpet so that it doesn't know too much, and then we release this fog because it will be covered through the budget - yes, who is funding the budget? Where does that come from? We have a very serious problem and we need to take it seriously. This is a problem that - as colleagues of the Coalition of Slovenia have already said, mentioned, we have strong, deep structural changes in the system that require appropriate measures, but not such an approach as today - this is again a wrong approach, a wrong systemic solution to a problem that will not go away, even if we vote again, as always, following a rapid procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Because he doesn't want Mr. Sok first, then Mr. Tanko. [[...]] Here you go. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u13	Is it him then?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u14	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So, personally, I think it's really the easiest thing to do, I'd say, to get through a health financial crisis in a way that just raises the rate of contribution. Now, on this occasion, we hear from the representatives of the ministry that this will not be enough. This is only a single firefighter's action, and, of course, the National Assembly would, if so, say, quickly accept such a solution, certainly have to demand that the Minister here answer certain questions. It is said that it tells us what are those systemic proposals of the Ministry of Health that will solve this very big problem in the long term. We have heard here that the costs have increased due to increased expenditure, especially for medicines. By the way, we hear or see, every day we can read in the newspaper Finance that pharmaceutical companies actually create not only one, but all in our country, the biggest profits. So it's easy to get this money out of the taxpayers' pocket into an unrealistic increase in drug prices. Then the wages increased, VAT increased, programmes increased, mainly due to the changed demographic structure of the inres, the minister should offer some long-term solution to all these problems. According to the place where I come from, according to the rural congregation, nothing has changed in the health care system in ten years. In fact, it's much worse than it was ten years ago. No, I'd say there was no private initiative, it wasn't realized, it couldn't be realized, even if it did. From the local factors, I don't know, to the state's, they hit her right in the hole. Even today, all the people in the entire congregation have to go to one place, and if you go to the Ormož health center, you will run into an indescribable lot of commotion, from old people who come by buses also 25 kilometers away, to mothers who carry young children in the arms and wait there for hours to arrive at the doctor’s appointment. Then they wonder, of course, what is the concept of this health care, why this health care, I would say, financially in such a crisis and why it is solved with one move in such a way that, as the Secretary of State has said, we are restructuring some of the costs and increasing the inflows to the health treasury, which, at this point, is clear, will not be enough. So, you will answer me because there is a possibility that this healthcare home also has outpatients, where once or twice a week a doctor is present. But what helps them if we have to go to a central health institution every three months to confirm this medical card so that you can go to a doctor with a certified medical card. Then it's better to go to that central place than to the infirmary that's just in your place. So, I would really like to know why this should be the case, and why such decisions are also causing more costs, which we are trying to overcome in some way by increasing health contributions by 0.2 percentage points, and at this point we find that if there are no other measures in the field of healthcare, that this will be insufficient and, of course, in a short time, we will probably encounter that because there is no other rationalisation, the contribution rate should be further increased. I'm really curious, and I'm very surprised that, on such an important issue and with such an important debate as this, there is no minister here between us. But when we passed a law on artificial fertilization, which, by a large majority, fell at the referendum, the minister, I would say, with all his expertise, defended and defended this law with all his political power. Today, when we deal with this, it does not seem worthwhile for him to be here and present what his long-term perspectives on the solution of this burning health treasury problem are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr Petan, Mr Sok, just for an explanation. The law was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. She authorised representatives of the Ministry of Finance to represent in the National Assembly because it was a financial regulation. If you look at the explanation of the bill, it states that it is one of the measures. So much for missing a government representative, that's the Minister of Health. It's a government regulation. Mr. Petan, please. [[A voice from behind.]] Mr. Bayuk, that just explained to Mr. Sok. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. We have said a lot in the committee and I would not like to repeat the debate as well as things are going on. I think it would be very good to repeat this once again because many have not heard what was the essence of the debate there. I'd focus on just one segment. The Finance Committee has been the parental committee, which concerns health. I agree with the Minister himself that he should be here, because his department will feel the consequences of this and feel the consequences of this, but this is another story. In this Committee, we have also adopted a decision saying that the Committee is proposing to the Government to prepare a comparative analysis of the structure of the price structure of medicinal products, focusing on the definition of the proportion of intermediaries, between producers and users, and of course a comparison with European countries. I don't know when it's gonna be. I hope the real minister has heard of this decision. This conclusion, however, was based on the fact that we heard that the cost of medicines had increased greatly, probably already had such dimensions that things were probably difficult to manage. And then, of course, it is completely understandable to ask ourselves why this cost has increased so much; it would probably be more understandable for us if we had increased costs, such as hospital activities or something else. That would be understandable, but if the price of drugs were to rise, we do not know why, and this is enormous, but one would expect to get the right answers, of course. But in this House we are already so used to the fact that the one to whom the matter relates is not, is simply not or is not, and does not want to hear anything about it, which also proves that the issue is right and should be said about it. In doing so, of course, I do not think that the producers of medicines are those who have set abnormal prices far from that. I am also convinced that the operators, so to speak, consumers and those who provide services, hospitals, health homes and the like, are not the ones who have put their prices up to the ceiling, but somewhere in between. And until we get what the board has asked for, we'll just have the feeling that something is hiding from us. I would ask the government representative to explain to us when we will get this comparison, because the only answer that there is nothing to be done is a little awkward; this is not an answer; this is just avoiding obligations, because there are such or other reserves everywhere. Until we get this information - this is just one of the possible options and one of the possible views, of course there are others - we will have a bitter taste so long that something is hidden from us or at least that it does not want to pour pure wine. In principle, I will probably support this issue, but I would also like to have an answer to such a question before I decide, because this is not a minimal, marginal problem, but it is becoming a central problem in this area. Things have taken on such dimensions that sooner or later, but rather sooner, we will have to face it and obtain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact that the Minister has postponed this obligation or is represented by the Ministry of Finance shows how much he really cares about this system to work well for the benefit of the citizens. This is not some minor matter, raising the contribution rate, we will do it in a "horuk" manner, with a fire gesture, and then, of course, it is not enough that people think about the minister, that then he is really like the leader of some fire brigade, and that will happen to him constantly. However, I will tell you that this way of implementing the normalised measures is far more expensive and far less efficient. What I mentioned earlier is that this government is dealing with the problem of deficit and is filling it from the budget register means that the insurance system of liability, responsible behaviour, economic behaviour is being untied. This also takes away the possibility of management to influence costs. It is most convenient, of course, if the rate of contribution is increased and a few services are cut off from the list of those services covered by the register and are transferred to the payroll. This is most convenient, of course. However, this system must also behave responsibly and economically, like other systems, other economic systems. Firefighters are this and nothing else. Three months or so from now, we will meet again on this subject. At that time, however, the minister may take the time and come himself, or perhaps come with another solution, or at least with the answer to that question, not only how he thinks, but also with suggestions, and that he will not only be authorized by the finance ministry to defend only a percentage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much. One more time to explain how vague I was. No one's authorized anyone. The Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for preparing this law, is the Ministry of Finance and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance are among us, as regards the government's attitude towards whom it sends of course. This is the law of the Ministry of Finance. No, Dr. Bayuk, this comes from a bill that's before you and I mean, I'm not commenting, I'm not commenting on anything, I'm just explaining what we all have in front of us. It's not about authority. First Mr. Petty Officer, then Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u21	If I've gone too far, I can take this, but the fact remains that the Minister doesn't take the time for this or his secretary of state. However, perhaps, Madam President, you do not need to be an advocate of the government, the government is an autonomous entity in this and the government should defend itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, one more time. If there were a Minister of Health among us, this was my basic message, I should not have to give a debate because he does not have the power of government under this law, which we are now adopting. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Look, this isn't some empty debate between the opposition and the position. This is exactly what we note that the government has dealt with this problem as a financial problem. And it has not yet solved the financial problem, because apparently, the so-called appropriate proposals are not appropriate because they are not sufficient. At the same time, she said that it was impossible to take any other measures in the field of rationalisation, which was clearly the subject of a debate. We can discuss this. So it's not a financial problem, it's our country's life problem and it won't go away. He won't go away, even if we accept it now, because I know they're very nervous, and we'd like to press the button to make it go away as soon as possible. It'll pass, as it still did. There's something else I'd like to remind you of, and I'm asking everyone. Do you know why there's no one here today from the Department of Health Insurance? Yes, because by deciding that this will be resolved through the budget, they no longer have any problems. Sure, just like the P.I.S. When he's gone, they say, "it's gone." Thanks. I'll go first. And from here on out, we're back in the wrong direction. We are back in the wrong direction, because gentlemen from the health insurance office have no further problems, because this will be resolved through the budget. That's a financial problem now. I find it difficult that representatives of the Ministry of Finance have to answer these questions because they are not experts in this area. Obviously. But I expect them to answer how this will cover up, why they have not decided to take any different approach and finally cover these matters up as they please. Because obviously, if it's impossible to find solutions in the field of rationalisation, then we need to know how you're going to hide it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Most of the debaters also know the whole debate on the home finance committee, because we have talked about this very widely and for a long time. In my introductory address, I also made it clear that this law is just one of the proposed legal solutions to remedy health problems and that on the other hand there is also a good law on pay taxes. I may have forgotten to mention that I did not know that the debate would go this way, that even within the framework of the integrated budgetary policy, the changes in the excise law, which explicitly additionally allocate the funds of this title, amounting to a few billion, are precisely for investments in health care. Part of this will also, I would say, spill, and some other funds will be released. I explicitly stress that we have long and widely coordinated with the Health Insurance Office and the Ministry of Health in preparing this marriage solution, so it is only the technical mandate of the Government to present this financial law today. You may have seen that there was also a State Secretary from the Ministry of Health, who had to leave the Chamber on account of the business arrangements, because he was not authorized, as the President had already explained in fact. So it is not that we today want to solve the health problems of this law. At the same time, I would like to draw attention, as has already been pointed out, to the conclusions of the Committee on Finance. We have committed ourselves to preparing a comprehensive analysis, as a government, and little has come to the third and fourth conclusions of this parental committee in contrast, perhaps the 'Lapsusa linguae' has come to. Because in the fourth decision, it is proposed to the Government and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Health Insurance to prepare a comprehensive analysis. In the third conclusion, we are talking only about the analysis in the field of drug prices and here is a comprehensive analysis of how to solve all these accumulated health problems. And they should submit this as material, as material, to the National Assembly. It is said that Article 3 states that an analysis of the prices of medicinal products is to be prepared prior to the examination of the proposed law. However, for purely technical reasons it is impossible to prepare, this analysis is being prepared and will be covered in this comprehensive report when we consider this report, which all three ministries and institutions will also prepare. So, I would point out that it is a comprehensive, integrated budgetary policy, that it is not that within this comprehensive budgetary policy, as you said, Dr. Bajuk, a simple institution will display "bianca" accounts and that the budget will only pay them in such a form or otherwise. On the contrary, we do not unleash fog, we do not want such a systemic approach. This is one of the partial laws, that is true, but it must be seen in the framework of all three proposals proposed by the Government under this integrated budgetary policy, i.e., as I said, of the pay tax law, which partially burdens employers in order to provide additional resources in this area. We cannot simply, not because of the agreements between the social partners, increase the contribution rates across some additional borders, because this will effectively further restrict employers. That is why all these three proposed laws are essentially fruit or the result of a comprehensive approach and within an integrated framework, I would say, budgetary policies. So I don't see in anything that the government is holding your eyes to health problems. At the same time, we specifically wanted to do so, as was the debate on the parental committee, in order to allow the health insurance institution to reach inside and to see why the real expenditure of the institution increased significantly in 2001. The first trend, I said, began in 2000, but earlier this was enough, this contribution rate. Indeed, this may only be due to an increase in the price of medicines, for in the last two years, we have said that the prices of medicines in the world are actually rising. Is it now appropriate to simply transfer this to our market and that it is not possible to do anything here, and we agreed with that. I am therefore saying that we cannot simply propose in full some substantially increased rate that will cause problems in other areas. Once again, this is an integrated budgetary policy that needs to be taken into account and is not just a partial solution to the problem. The law in this part that we have today partially resolves in this part, but let us look at it in the light of all these proposed documents and proposed legislative changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanations. But it's in your explanations that I see the biggest problem. This is part of an integrated budgetary policy. So, the change in contributions, this law we have, something in excise duties, and the third thing I've heard, but it's part of a financial approach. What we are pointing out here is that we also need a certain approach in the real sector, not just funding. But you have not answered that question so far, and I do not blame you for this, because it is not your responsibility to explain to us in the National Assembly what has been done in the field of rationalisation and why it is impossible to do anything else. That's clear. So, this is the point of the problem that, at last, it is only an approach, a global approach through an integrated budgetary policy. We say, however, that it must also be part of an integrated health policy that must maintain the autonomy of the health insurance institution and provide the Slovenians with the kind of service we need today and here. And today and here Slovenia is different than it was ten years ago, there are different requirements. Why don't we do this yet? That's the question. My colleague used the words, "that's a fireman's approach." Yeah, of course it's a fireman's approach. I would just add to that that you don't have enough water because you only cover 50%, a little less than 50% of what you're supposed to do by the end of the year. Fireman's approach without enough water! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u29	I would just like to complement the Secretary of State when he announced and said that it was a comprehensive budgetary policy, stating that the tax on salaries paid is being reduced and that part of these funds is being diverted to the health treasury, then that a change in excise duties is announced in the budget. I would like to remind him that the projected change in value added tax is also. So, I believe you, of course, it is a comprehensive budgetary policy, an additional burden on citizens and citizens of this country. So here we are talking about something else - a broader issue, it is said, on rationalisation and additional measures in the field of health. And for this reason, no matter who the government authorised to represent it here or not, I expected the Minister to be here among us in this debate and tell us what those measures the Ministry of Health will take. And it is true, Madam President, that you do not have to be an adjutant to this government, but that the government can answer these questions on its own. And it really doesn't make sense that you sent the Secretary of the Ministry of Health from the committee where you dealt with this matter, if that's none of his business. Of course, that seems illogical to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, the rules of action of the National Assembly under the Rules of Procedure are clear. The government's representatives working with us are those who are authorized by the government; the Minister of Health is not authorized, nor is the Secretary of State. That's the first part. Part two. If we were to talk now about broader health policy measures, we would - and are already moving from the agendas left to us by this bill that we have before us. This is also a matter of another parent's working body after content. By asking you kindly to focus on these three articles that address this issue, even in further discussions. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm sorry to call you back. However, I would only ask the Secretary of State to explain to us whether the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute will be in charge of billions that will run out by the end of the year, where it will be in charge, of how this is planned. Or again the public sector in Slovenia will be financed by not paying suppliers, as we have already done in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you. Dear Vice President! I'll give you absolutely right for what you said. You can't interpret otherwise, that's clear. So it doesn't fly on you. I would - and also, of course, not to the representative of the government who is here - also say that he is now the lightning rod on which everything hangs and on which all the shots are fired. I'm sorry. However, I would like to remind him of his words when he wanted to tell us that the government is looking at this in its entirety, that this is a kind of comprehensive approach. But if that is the case, then the government has made a mistake by sending only you here to parliament for an increased contribution rate. If this is a comprehensive approach, then this is also the area of health. This is just what we are saying, that one of the health lords should also be here and tell us what a comprehensive approach is in this area. And of course, if one of these ministries said that their austerity measure was to put an end to some hospital somewhere in Slovenia, then they would probably ask him what the rest of the stuff was. And then we'd probably get back to what I've discussed before. It is also said that there are different price structures, specifically on the prices of medicines. So I'm not exactly sure that the government had a holistic approach here. Maybe a comprehensive approach to financial measures, this is how it will empower citizens, employers and, of course, how it will reduce certain rights and the benefits that citizens have in health services. That's what they say. That's two diametric approaches. On the one hand, you have greater responsibilities, and on the other hand, you have less rights. After all, the abolition of a hospital, which is currently very present in Slovenia, probably goes into this context and it is very embarrassing that while the other minister responsible for this area is shutting down a hospital and we are increasing the rate of contribution here. We're all on the same page anyway. On the one hand, we get them on the head, bigger obligations, and on the other hand we have smaller rights. I'm sorry. I'm not sure that's exactly a holistic approach. Mr. Secretary of State, take note of this as well. You're the only one who's ever been on this flight. If you're here now, you'll have to take over. But I know it's a big mistake of the government to have only you here, from this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't think the government made any mistakes. The proposed law is a fiscal law and it is therefore normal for the Ministry of Finance to be the one who proposes and advocates a specific law in this National Assembly. In particular, since the Government has taken note of the fourth decision of the Financial Committee, specifically on the content, what Dr. Bayuk said, it will discuss when a comprehensive report of all those who provide health care or health insurance, in particular, will be prepared. So if we thought we were talking about this today, then normally the Ministry of Health would be the one who would be authorized by the government. Today we are talking only about fiscal work, about one part of this problem, as Dr. Bayuk correctly pointed out. However, this does not mean that we are simply making, I would say, a unilateral approach and that we do not want a systematic way of dealing with these matters. The answer to Dr. Bayuk's question is, of course, very simple. Firstly, it is an assessment of the real growth of expenditure and income from the health insurance institution itself, which applies for the first nine months. If trends continue, there may be a weak 13 billion losses or deficits. It can't be like this. That is why the two data we have been talking about, I would say, on the parent board itself, there is an estimated 10.8 billion deficits, according to the operations of the first nine, ten months, and the second is an assessment if trends continue to do so. Well, that's the point. So it's a fiscal law, and that's why this part is proposed under this law. However, we respect the fourth conclusion, as I said, and at that time, of course, the space, time and all the activity of the government and the relevant ministries of resources will be discussed in this comprehensive report on the implementation of the measures, as you yourself have stated, in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say, I do not agree with my colleague Petan that no one "shoots" here. I hope you don't take this as a fight either. You have certain powers, we, as elected representatives of the people, also have ours and we must ask you these questions, this is our responsibility, our duty and, of course, our right. Well, let me turn to your answer now. I believe that, and I understand that these are predictions. But whether it's something over 10 billion or maybe 13. So my question still stands between 5,7 or 8, as we are now going to get through these new sources, there is still some deficit, either up to 10 or up to 13. My question is and I repeat: How will this be covered, either to a lesser extent or to a greater extent? However, I would like us not to prolong this debate if you can also explain to me whether it is already in charge of the Health Insurance Office if it has the practice that such things work, how this will be done, and whether this debt will be on the domestic market or on the foreign market, and how we are today, as far as the limits allowed by the law on the implementation of the budget are concerned. If my memory does not deceive me, we are very close, if we have not already slightly exceeded the temporary limits set by the law regarding additional indebtedness this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk, for asking further questions. I had no intention of eliciting this issue, but I thought it would be satisfactory in this context. Otherwise, quite simply, each economic entity saves liquid liquidity by short-term debt. It also takes care of the current liquidity situation. At the moment, I do not have any information on whether he is already in charge, whether it is short-term or long-term, we can, of course, provide such data if such a decision is taken by the national assembly. However, it is normal, the assessments are such, the warnings are given in advance, but, of course, we will talk about the rest after we get the actual results. So I think that whether the bills are being paid up, or by a certain delay that you've been talking about, it's a matter of the liquidity policy of the institution itself. And all of this is, of course, also in the context of the law on the implementation of the budget and the law on public finances, so I think that the finance ministry here, in connection with the institution of health insurance, is currently solving the problem. What will be the final result, and we cannot follow with certainty at this time. So, this does not detract from the functioning of the institution that, at this point in time, the estimated deficit is a few billion, so that the institution - say - cannot carry out its activities, finance and so on; of course, at this point in time there is no talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As we listen to this debate, I think it is clear to us all that today's medicine is technologically more advanced, developed, and users are actually becoming increasingly difficult. And when you listen to this, you actually see that the solutions to this problem - if even the layman thinks about it - are at least two. So one of these is a raise in the contribution rate. I must admit that a month ago, when this matter began to be prepared, I also prepared an amendment to raise to 0,30, but then, somewhere, I was taught to do so to further the burden of the economy. And I've seen that maybe it's a temporary solution, too. And then the question continues to come to me when I hear daily that these numbers, the red numbers that are promised, are getting bigger and we're already coming up hard in 13 and similar numbers of billions of minus, the deficits that the institution is supposed to be showing in the coming months. Well, I certainly agree that drugs are expensive, that they may be prescribed too much and consume too much, but I don't think that's the only problem. Now, I would ask you, the Ministry of Finance, do you think that there exists, apart from the increase in this rate of contribution, which we said would currently be an excessive burden on the economy, or other than the reduction in the quality and quality of health services, or the increase in this minus is, say, with these side-by-side additional means that were also envisaged elsewhere, which are, of course, too small, do you see any other option other than this reduction in the quantity and quality of users' rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Merlo, for this question. However, of course, I have to answer you in the way that, in principle, the only way is possible. Within the framework of a comprehensive budgetary policy, where the budget and also the budget of the Ministry of Field Affairs are to be discussed and where, in particular, the spending law, the higher excise revenue on this basis, essentially allocates certain resources to the Ministry of Field Affairs for additional investments and, on the other hand, some of these funds are also released for coverage, as we have said, of certain missing funds in other areas. This is possible, this is possible, here are the rules known and, of course, this debate will be the most appropriate when a comprehensive discussion is held at an extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly on the budget, as far as I am aware. So, in particular, when we were coordinated, before I said, both the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Institute - and that these coordinations were not only the result of one hour of conversation, that we were looking at all the problems comprehensively and we said where all the solutions were on individual segments. Therefore, it is only under this fiscal law that we today propose what is one of these solutions. It is not the only one, it is not definitive, but the content itself will be an appropriate debate, according to our ministry, in the context of the budgetary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u45	I would just explain to you that somewhere we are Members as one "ping-pong ball" between users and performers. Complaints are on both sides, by the medical department, that absolute resources for what medicine is offering today are insufficient and that such a trend will not continue, but at the same time by the users, that there are certain waiting periods and certain anomalies that are in health, which are also the fruit of, of course, mostly lack of money. In short, this is not the best story in the world. So that I think it might be valid for these good - still, despite the fact that we have recently been a wallpaper doctor - still good services offered by this medicine, I think it might be fair to tell people that, with these increasingly expensive procedures and the like, it will be necessary to start once, even though it is an unpopular option, but to say that the quantity and quality of services will have to be adapted to the means that are intended today. I think this might be the fairest option if we know that we're not going to be able to fix this minus eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants Mr. Petan, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you. I do not know now whether I can also ask the Minister of Health a question, given that the Government has not authorised him. I got it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u48	Just for an explanation. At the same time as the Minister has entered, he has delegated the power of the Government to participate in this law. Only my wish, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please, all the questions that you will address to the Minister will be within the framework of the fiscal law that we now have so that the debate will not develop into a broader debate within the framework of health policy in our country. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u49	It was just a question, so principled. In fact, in this debate I have had about this price of medicines and price structures, I also wanted to think in the opposite direction. Indeed, the contribution rate of 13.25, as it is now, is an increase of 0.2% - that is, we can see differently. We all have in mind what this burden or such a burden means to the economy, that is clear. If we have a strong economy, of course we also get more money at the same rate of contribution. If we increase the contribution rate, that means extra burden. But I didn't mean to say that. I also want to think in a different direction: how could this 0.2% be saved anywhere? I mentioned earlier that I do not claim to be the producer's price, because my debate now relates to my previous discussion on the structure of the price of medicines. I never claimed that prices in producers were too high. Not that the prices of services in health institutions are too high. Far from it! I just wanted to get an answer on what's going on with the price of drugs here and from the manufacturer to the final consumer, to the final price. That's all it was about. And where those 0.2% can be saved. That is how we can think; and not only can we think. And we're probably going to have to, because with this increase of 0.2%, we're not going to cover the entire hole that's coming in, but there's a little bit more -- if we're looking at it in absolute terms. This is said to require other measures. I think it is right to mention now that the Minister is here: I mentioned at the outset that it is likely that only "splitting" in health care, by having a hospital or hospital department shut down, will probably not be enough, but there will be somewhere else to prepare a measure that may not be popular. I have mentioned one matter that does not apply directly to this healthcare service, because I believe that this one must have all the conditions for doing well. It must probably have more money; however, others who are not directly in the healthcare system are also "hanging" on this system, but it is also a fact. That's exactly what I wanted to warn you. I didn't want to criticize either the minister or the area he covers, but the area that relates to looking at this in its entirety - and we have to. That is why I also mentioned this decision of the Monetary Policy Committee, which discusses the structure of medicines. The minister will probably have to say something here too, because this is his direct cost - the price of medicines in such or different form and everything that binds in here - and who "applies" to this price of medicines. That was my purpose. Of course, I hope that if someone, or a minister, can also answer me whether they are familiar with this third decision of the Monetary Policy Committee, which also discusses what the government should do to prepare a price structure for medicines. Maybe there's another 0.1 or 0.2% of the reserve in there, among the middlemen. That was my purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much. First Dr. Bayuk, then Mag. It's a trifle. Here you go, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to welcome the Minister, who is now in our midst, and to thank him. We have warned, and we have missed you, Mr Minister, so thank you for being here today when we discuss this very law. Above all, we are disturbed - and I will limit myself to what Madam President has warned - that in this law, as published in the Rapporteur, it is an explanation that in the government's assessment - because I cannot change my mind as it is an assessment of the whole government - that the problems that began in the second half of 2000 where the monthly revenue went beyond the expenditure - on the contrary, forgive! - that this led to a deficit. Here I quote, "which can no longer be covered with further" - another interesting word is "rational measures in health care, but only with additional resources". We are not only concerned that, as a financial solution, it is not enough because it is obvious that a few billion will run out, at least five, if not more, that the government's assessment is particularly difficult to expect any further rationalisation solutions. I would like to hear where we have come from, what we have done in this area, and why you feel that there is nothing more that can be expected in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you for saying that again. I'll try to be more clear and clear. The health system is a large system and currently according to government financial records it is a problem of increasing loss, i.e. increasing expenditure and reducing income or this wedge is increasing. We, who are also responsible for this system, because we set up, so we adopt laws, must first have a full balance, then, of course, from the one who runs this system, and this is the minister, so the government will do. The course is wrong, that's what it is. That is why we also wanted the Minister to be present in this Chamber, and I thank you for joining us. In this context of rescue we are interested in at least four sets of what the ministry or government will prepare; what about services - some cuts have been mentioned. It's the first set. Second, contribution rates. How much is this percentage, how much an individual factor contributes to improving the position. The third is economic behaviour. I mentioned earlier that economic behaviour is very much linked to the autonomy of health insurance. And the fourth, among the most important, is medicine. The State has competence and competence in setting the price of medicinal products or in agreeing to certain medicines prices. On the basis of this, we're actually getting to a number that we can say -- we're either equalizing the situation or the deficit. My fellow Member, Mr Bajuk, asked whether, at the end of these four factors that we will deal with and propose to the government, this deficit would arise, whether you will do so and whether you will be in charge of the solution by providing the necessary resources from the integrated budget. That's actually a question. And that's why we wanted [[...]] In the light of the fact that we are considering this stage, we want to know what is actually happening to the others. What the government intends to do, of course, so that this segment of the contribution rate can also be reliably regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see you don't. I would like to ask the Minister for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Believe me, I am sorry that I was sure that today is not my role in this House - and I am very happy to come here. I could take you a few hours if, of course, we had it to explain to you that, in fact, your comments are in the sense of whether we are predicting stable funding or whether we can anticipate a level playing field at least next year, so that I can give you a few arguments, of course, that we cannot expect this, at least for the second year, yet. A little better for 2003. Allow me, although I have been particularly stressed that we are only talking about financial aspects, to say very briefly four global reasons why we have come into the crisis. And, of course, this crisis hasn't been happening since Wednesday of last year. It is essentially the fact that the internal reserves, including the insurance company, have been in a better position in previous years, have definitively exhausted and that this year is the first time in a deep loss. The main reasons at the cost level are the value added tax which the health sector has charged at annual level with 10 billion - if we count this year compared to four years ago when this tax was not available. Then, an increase in wages for healthcare professionals, not just for doctors, although most know about them. It is estimated that this year, at the annual level, amounts to 28 billion per salary. Then major demographic changes in this society over the last decade. We've talked about this a lot. We have about 70,000 more older people in the last ten years, which, of course, are more expensive, it makes sense - I don't speak badly for old people. Everyone among us is sick when they get to age. The higher number of old people means higher costs. And these costs are about 5 times higher than for other citizens. We could say we've won a quarter of a million new insurance companies for the same money. And finally: the continuous emergence or development of medicine with new methods as well as new medicines. It's very difficult to judge. But let me just have one little piece of information. In the United States, the cost of drugs has been rising for the last two years, 18 percent, with almost $4000 per capita of course. With us this year, 16 percent, which is, of course, significantly more than last year. And later, if I have time, I'll try to explain. In short, the pressure on the cash register is so great that health care would have been a major loss before, if not for rationalisation simply started spontaneously, under the pressure of a limited budget. It's going to be very hard for you to think now without the charts to prove what happened. But at the expense of these costs that I have counted, and while the programme, the adoption of the healthcare programme, has nevertheless increased slightly, the insurance company has gradually reduced the price of individual services in recent years. It simply lowered the price and this year's prices are real around 25 to 30 percent lower than prices four to five years ago. She couldn't have done anything else. Or, what was also politically unacceptable, should reduce the programme. You could give at least one or some basic evidence that we have actually rationalized. An example you probably all already know. In recent years, we've cut back on our hospitals. Our hospitals require about 100 billion money this year. In these, we cut the decking age by 25 to 30 percent. Our assessment is very modest that health care with internal measures saves 6 billion each year. This is already 0.2 per cent that he mentioned, if I am not mistaken, Member Petty Officer or perhaps someone else. We've been saving at least that much at the annual level. Because, if not otherwise, we're forced into this because we're forced by the patients we need to treat and because we're forced to make money that's as much as it is. Saving for the future - I'm putting you in front of a dilemma. In Slovenia we have health care - do not take my word for it because the numbers are always different - about $800 per capita. This is not to be profoundly different, it is similar to Spain, Greece, Portugal, but this is significantly less than Germany, France, Italy, could say that this is less than the average in the European Union. In these 800 dollars, there are now 500 dollars already spent on wages. You can ask me if we can save on jobs. You have recently witnessed, and the debate will be strengthened, which proves that we are at the bottom of Europe by the number of doctors and nurses who, without offense, mean, of course, the main health workers. There is no more debate as to how many administrations are too old or not, but on the contrary; we have clear demands that we increase the number of employees, at least doctors and nurses, by 10% in the next five years, with a very rough calculation saying that we will only need 15 to 20 billion to pay. Of course, if this money is not available, there will be no employment, then on another occasion in Parliament I will have to answer why doctors are getting older, why old doctors are on duty, whether there is security and everything else, as there will be any questions or other that will be available. There is no doubt that there is even a slight increase in employment in the ministry, and at this point the direction of government policy is not an occasion, but it is clear that we will try to stick to it. Rationalisation therefore remains about 40% of the money that is cost-effective. I'm just asking you: in the $300 we spend on material costs, we can save something else if the Germans have $1,000 for material expenses on the German's head. And in fact there are reserves - if we claim that the reserves are close to the end, we seriously mean it. The reserves are never on the ground, there's always something to do, I'm sure, and I can also tell you later what we're going to do but we're running out of time. So there are reserves, but not this level, so that we can simply forget about the fundamental decisions: whether we are still following the development of medicine in the world and allowing an increase in the programme, in particular new treatment methods, curatives, like - say - developed countries, or take a break and say, for a while, this country can afford so much. Let me just mention that this is not a cynical comment, it would be one of the possible decisions. If I want to answer a frequent question about the price of medicines. The price of medicines is a global problem; you know it well, you know the pressure of the world industry. Among other things, as information, I am working on an international action to obtain the prices of medicines that take into account the purchasing power of each country. Of course, it is such an extremely naive action and so strongly against the market economy that this momently majority of countries smile at it, although you know well that in the field of AIDS medicines in Africa, an agreement has been reached that these medicines are 20 times cheaper than they are - say - in developed countries. We hope, personally, that in the future, if we talk about real globalisation, not only about economics, but also about globalisation in the field of human rights, health rights, that perhaps rich countries will understand that at least those medicines that save lives must receive a price that is proportional to the purchasing power of each country, not the price dictated by industry. But this time, as you well know, and in a short time we will have a law in Parliament, we are under great pressure from the world industry and also from global policy to harmonise our intellectual property legislation and thereby reduce the possibilities of our own generic industry, which has only been able to operate in some niche until we are in the European Union. Nevertheless, our prices with the changes to the regulation that we have changed this year on medicines, with these changes, are estimated to be at an annual rate of 2 billion. But we are faced, constantly, with great pressures from both domestic and foreign producers, that it is completely overtaken by all methods. In short, we are faced with threats that some medicines will not be supplied because, of course, we have become the cheapest in Europe. Our assessment is that we no longer have strong deviations in the prices of medicines in Europe and that our prices are indeed very likely, at least 5 to 10% lower there, than the average, not the average, as is the case with the cheapest countries in the European Union. When it comes to prices, I'd like to remind you that the prices of medicines don't go up. Drug prices generally fall. I'm talking about old drugs, drugs that have been on the market for years. But there are new drugs and these new medicines have prices in multiple previous prices. And of course, consumption of old drugs is also increasing. Let me say another very heretical thought. The most common word is: Slovenians are taking too many medications. Is there anything you can do in this area to avoid eating so much medicine? We all know extremes, individuals who interfere with drugs in this way. But globally taken, no offense, Slovenians are taking too few medications. Globally, analyses show that only 30% of Slovenes are adequately treated. This is, of course, the same as it is in Europe. There's a lot of people who leave the medicine. They don't go to the doctor. They insist on their chronic illness, but they don't take care of it. And it's just the pressure that he's treated too much, with all due respect that there are sometimes too many of them, but I want to say that when we make a bigger order in this area, or if now we can make an order with a magic wand so that every Slovenian can only take what they absolutely need - but that's what everyone would take - would dramatically increase the budget for drugs and not reduce. This means that, at this point, to expect some important solutions, except that manufacturers are lowering prices, is almost illusory. In the case of increased sources, it is clear that the Ministry of Health has proposed a higher level of contribution in government and non-governmental debates, about 0.5 per cent, but it is logical that, as part of the government, the scenarios followed. Economic assessments, expert assessments in this area, that this instant 0.2 is maximum, which we can afford. As you know, a week ago, the Chamber of Commerce proposed that nothing should be increased as it was already 0.2 - although the economy received this refund or will be reimbursed from the wage tax, they are not satisfied with this profit, but do not demand or oppose even this increase. The contribution rate, however, is the most solidarity way to raise additional money. Today we cannot begin - but I can inform you that we are working intensively on so-called additional insurance, on the proposal for a law in this area. I just want to warn you that additional voluntary insurance undermines the justice of the system. Additional insurance includes a single policy, the policy is the same for the poor or the rich, while the contribution rate naturally burdens each of us on our own incomes. And right now, at this stage, we've already lost some justice. As you know, the share of voluntary insurance in our country is already high and there is no longer much reserve compared to other countries, how to obtain additional money from voluntary money. This year’s activities in the field of excise duties or taxes with a common word are certainly commendable. It's not just about finding new sources of money, it's true. That's the basic purpose. These excise duties are estimated to amount to about 4 billion additional health resources in 2003, but the simultaneous introduction of excise duties on so-called life-threatening means an active tax policy. In short, tax policy, which is not neutral, however, wants to influence the behaviour of citizens through fiscal mechanisms, even though this influence is small, despite all the countries that use it, report on movements in the behaviour of citizens when a particular matter is encouraged. So economic behaviour as the third point of the question, Mr Drobnič. Yes, there are still certain options. And we in the ministry, and not just us, are of course preparing comprehensive strategies to make money more efficient, and this moment's money is still not being shared most effectively. It is still, as we say, not to follow the patient after his illness and after his difficulty, but to take too much account of the needs of the operators, to try to rescue the contractors from bankruptcy, but you know exactly that these are also problems and that you, at least as local Members, may have to answer questions or comment on questions when the ministry proposes closing individual departments. This time the world tells us that we still have too many paediatric beds in Slovenia and that of course we have too many other departments. However, it is clear exactly what it means, in a political sense, to intervene at the level of local policy or state policy. We're ready to go into this. This will also be done by the Ministry of Health, but, of course, we expect at that moment to win the prudence, or we can do more with the existing funds than we have done before. I think I tried, although probably not as specific as any of you wanted to answer the questions. 0.2 I understand as a financial mechanism, bringing money that will not be enough for the second year. The health department will lose in the coming year. This, of course, means constant pressure on health care providers to make additional efforts to save some extra money. Well, that'll almost certainly follow. I personally express the view that we will be back in this Parliament within one year at the latest before the proposal on an increased rate of contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Mr Minister, for your explanations. Above all, I am really surprised by your assessment that you expect further problems in this area next year. Thank you very much, too, as far as finance is concerned, the system. Thank you very much for your explanations, however, which clearly prove that what we have read in the explanation of the bill does not, otherwise, hold that in your assessment there are indeed possibilities for rationalisation, but subsequently, not that only the increase in resources is the only way. I just want to focus on the question of medicines prices. It is true that this is a global problem. You said that in the market economy it is so, but I would like to remind you that even in the market economy, at least from the theoretical point of view, when analysing how prices are formed in the economy, a clear approach is that if you have few sellers, as is obviously the case in this area, the only way to achieve some is to increase the competition or bargaining power of the buyer. The question that we have raised at the previous meeting of the Prime Minister, however, is precisely related to the decision of your ministry in August this year - I hope that I am properly aware of it, I think - that is why you have not decided to give this very responsibility to the health insurance institution, that it is possible to negotiate as a financier and the biggest buyer, because such an approach is in accordance with European Union standards, that is also known to developed countries that have exactly the same problems as we have in this area; it is clear how to negotiate "Medicare" in the United States and also the largest in Europe. Why we didn't come to this is a big question for me. I am also aware - I think it is correct - that there is one office within your ministry that follows this matter. But there are four people working there. It would be difficult for a person to expect them to follow all the developments of the world market and to have a ministry or you, when deciding, a sufficient report on these matters so that they can take the right action. In any case, however, we assess that it is possible to achieve a different approach through a different system approach, as far as the duties and powers of the insurance office are concerned, as regards procurement from domestic and foreign suppliers, because this will give them some power and at the same time a different responsibility. And it is in this approach of the government that now, after a quick process and in a small way, it leaves what has served well in Slovenia and this is the autonomy of the institution itself. We are very worried about this because if the institution has this possibility that it can always call the Ministry of Finance and say "we have problems" and at the same time do not have the authority to fight for greater rationality, at least in one industry such as the supply of medicines, then there is some lost opportunity for us to take a strong stand and we would like to see it reconsider, not only in your ministry, but also in the whole government. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask you a few more questions. You have also been a senior official in the clinical center for many years. I am also deeply concerned about the indebtedness - not only of the health insurance institution, I am also concerned about the lack of data. We hear much about the indebtedness of certain public institutions, especially the clinical centre, that it is in the long term in charge of the domestic market. I would also like to know if that is the case, because then we do not have the complete picture of what is really happening in our public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Minister Keber, please. Could you join us, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u59	Your Honor! So, first of all, something about competitiveness. Without, of course, praising the regulation that will continue to develop, I would nevertheless like to explain that the prices currently being set in our country as a basis are the lowest possible prices in the three countries where there is great competition among many producers. The lowest price of one medicine, for example in Germany, France, Italy, can be 50 percent or more lower than the same medicine of another factory. We have set the lowest price in three countries. This means: we have already used the fight for the market in three large countries. There is no market fight in our country. The first reason is that unlike other traders, the medicine must be registered, which is a very important and expensive procedure. We cannot afford to call manufacturers from Brazil or India, where the prices of medicines are known to be lower, because all these medicines simply need to be registered, and in a small country this is not usually done. So we have used market-competitive mechanisms in three countries. A follow-up procedure, a follow-up action that we will apply and we have already announced, is already being prepared and is a so-called list of reference prices. This means that if such a list is accepted, the insurance company will only recognise the lowest price of the same medicine. And if the doctor prescribes the same medicine for another manufacturer, he will have to either protect himself or pay the difference in his pocket for this money. This means, in every way, we are trying to reach the lowest possible price of medicines in comparison in Europe. The debate that the institution would be in these conditions, when we are regulating prices nationally, the negotiator is simple - I could say, but what if even the Ministry were moved to the institution, because the institution in this sense is also an extraterritorial state, forgive me, probably not, but substantively yes. This is nevertheless a major institution that knows nothing about the content of 3,000 medicines that doctors need. It will also have a commission made up of some people, just like the Ministry of Health - even wrong: the Ministry of Health has a highly authoritarian and professional agency for medicines that argue that Slovenians are not given medicines that will then be open to questions about whether the vaccine is right or dangerous, and everything that is constantly open to us on other occasions. Today we're only talking about prices, another moment, at some point, I'm going to wonder who bought this drug. So let me take both of us one step at a time. Yes, we suggest that buyers, real drug buyers, hospitals, have common annual drug offers. At this level alone, after the State has determined prices, it is only at discount level that it is possible to obtain additional reduced prices from producers. And at this point, of course, we also have plans that will still need to be made or time will show whether we will be able to implement them. In fact, the common public invitations to tender for the main groups of medicinal products, the common public invitations to tender for the equipment ordered by each operator as far as possible and therefore received at a higher price than if it were a common invitation to tender for the country and so on. There's also one of the reserves that I haven't mentioned before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your explanations. Obviously, we disagree in this area. Of course, a broader debate is needed and deepened. I am pleased to note that you are still thinking in this area - I hope you will also make a timely decision. But I would like to add that when you think about it, you need to include another piece of information. It is well known, according to reports in the public in Slovenia that perhaps your assessment that these are the lowest possible prices is not true, because it is these companies in Slovenia that show a significant increase in their profits in the first half of 2001, between 30% and 60%. So I think there is room for a different approach here; I hope we will have it, but above all it bothers me that we have not yet come to it. I am also pleased to note that you have reported to us here that you are ready to continue working on this strategy. We'll expect that. I don't agree with this law, as it is, because I'm sure it's the wrong approach. However, I would expect that in the future, when such systemic key changes are brought into hand, the government will act with greater seriousness than it has addressed this problem, because it is not just the subject of an integrated budgetary policy. This is one of the life problems of our society, which also has its own phenomenon in the financial field. However, we still lack clear information in the National Assembly on how the government thinks that the real health sector will actually be restructured, so that we can maintain what has served our society well in the past, in order to maintain the autonomy of the insurance institution while achieving such efficiency as our citizens and citizens have the right to expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. I ask the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, given that the mother labour is in the first decision, to support the proposed law and to propose to the national assembly to consider and adopt, as proposed by the proposer, but the Committee has adopted additional decisions which propose to the government that, at least in some part, it should consider the possibility of amendments to other levels of contribution. I ask the Chairman of the Committee whether he wants us to suspend the hearing at this stage and to prepare amendments for the second reading. Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u63	Yes, thank you very much. You would expect the Vice-President to read the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which clearly states that this point is not ready until the Government submits what the Committee requires. Of course, the congregation can reject all of this and, as such, adopt it. Now, make up your mind. As chairman of the committee, because you have challenged me, I think you should or should not begin at all until the reports requested by the committee have been submitted to the assembly. If you understand Slovenian differently than yourself, then it is just as you say and you can work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Pucko, I do not wish to negate here, but the committee, as one of the adopted decisions, is sending a proposal to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the law in accordance with the procedure. What you have proposed in the additional conclusions is, in fact, very illogical, because usually the parent working bodies interrupt this meeting and ask the government to prepare additional explanations and additional proposals, additional conclusions. That's how I disagree with your assessment here, so of course we started with the point, given your prepared report. However, I ask you whether you want to make any amendments until the second reading, which stage we are now in.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I don't want anything. The Committee adopted conclusions requiring the Government to submit to a second hearing - that is to say - this, this and this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u66	He's proposing to the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u67	Yes, he does. Now, if he suggests it or not, it doesn't matter. What they can submit should be submitted. If they do, they've already submitted, if they don't, they'll explain. It's just a matter of interpretation. If you want to bring this point through today, then say the government can prepare it, the other can't, and the third doesn't know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. However, in a procedural sense, Mr Pucko, given that you are proposing to the Committee that the law be adopted and that additional decisions be voted on after the end of the third reading, of course this proposal is illogical. Mr. Concan, please. Then it's mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Government has examined all of these instructions given by the Committee after a broad discussion. And at the very beginning, we said that, after further consideration, we are proposing these two novels of these two articles; that is, by 0.20 per cent of the point of the increased rate of contribution, and also by the amendment of the second article, which we have not talked about today. So, the government examined and the additional conclusion under point one was true because I specifically said it in the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u71	That's why we wrote "request" in the dictatorship yesterday, not "proposal" anymore, because that's what we have in the rules of procedure. I think we will have to use this dictatorship more often in the additional conclusions. Look. I myself participated in this debate on the Committee on Health, Work, Family and Disabled Persons and Social Affairs, and there we made clear what we would like to have before the second reading, which documents or which additional materials. This is not on the table today and, of course, the conclusion is that when these materials are available, the matter goes on. I don't know why you're interpreting it differently or looking for some discrepancy between this main and the additional conclusions. I do not think that the additional decision of the Health Committee is respected today, so I do not think that the conditions for further discussion of this matter have been met, unless, of course, you think that the debate on the Committee is meaningless, pointless, that this spoil can overrun everything, but that is, of course, completely contrary to what you want, including the new rules of procedure, to achieve. I therefore think that, on a purely substantive basis, we should listen to the demands and decisions of the Labour, Health and, of course, react appropriately in a procedural sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'll explain it one more time. You've got the board's report on the bench. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee supports the law submitted and invites the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider it and adopt it in accordance with the procedure proposed by the proposer. Such a decision of the parent working body is the basis and sufficient condition for the national assembly to decide on it." At the same time, the Committee also adopted the following additional conclusions. Under 1: the Committee proposes to the Government that until the second reading of the law submitted under the rapid procedure. Therefore, after the general discussion, I asked the National Assembly whether I should interrupt - the Chairman of the Committee - on the basis of a proposal for an additional decision - at this stage of the plenary session to prepare or consider the possibility of amending other levels of contribution. I think that everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure and today's work in the framework of the plenary session. Thus, Mr Puck, I ask once again whether we should stop or continue to work. On the contrary, given how this additional decision is actually drawn up, the National Assembly would ask that it be voted on, in fact, by what it is [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Yes, but the committee doesn't even suggest that we make that decision, but it does propose to the government. These are additional decisions, which are usually adopted in plenary session after the adoption of the law [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] This relationship of the committee - the government should be cleared within the framework of the committee itself. We do not vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this additional decision. So I'm asking the president if we should interrupt or if someone else wants this interruption? Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. These additional conclusions were, of course, drawn early enough, before today’s consideration of the law. However, on the basis of the arguments put forward first on the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, they presented themselves in such a weighty manner that they encouraged the Committee's appeal to its mother's labour body to continue to give the Government the opportunity, as it is a quick procedure to submit any additional measures within the time available to date. If the government has not done so, it is in accordance with the rules of procedure that we cannot commit in any way now and so on. We are voting on the basic proposal for a decision given by the mother labour body. That's how we on our board set this thing up. But I think this time, at least as far as the government is concerned, she missed something in her approach. Sooner or later, we will meet with this law, given the arguments that have been made today. Permanento is happening to us what's kind of a generational path. The proportion of those who pay at 6.36% shall be reduced at each moment of retirement. There is a growing consumption from this point on. So that additional levels of contribution will have to be introduced and some are not being burdened any more in this proposal, they will have to rise. The government could reach out to at least one of the segments, given the purpose of the committee, at least for health care. She has decided not to and we have here at our disposal to vote on the first decision, if I understand the mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u75	I reiterate what the Member, Mr Brenčič, said. I said it a little earlier, but apparently it's not. The government has examined the matter, it considers that there is no need to change anything from the existing one, so the government has not prepared an amendment, and I have specifically said so. So the government insists on taking this first additional decision into account, so there can be no doubt about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko! No, I'm sorry. It is therefore undeniable that the Government has examined the additional decision proposed by the Committee within a possible time limit until this item is considered on the agenda, and the undisputed assembly announces that it insists on the proposal for a law to the extent that it is before us and in the context in which we have now held a general debate. We are therefore moving on to a second reading, to the consideration of the individual articles of the bill. The law has three articles. I shall give Article 1 to the debate and to the decision-making process. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to decision-making, first of all Article 1. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the last Article 3. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. I am opening a debate on the draft law as a whole. Anybody want a word? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I note, as I have already identified on both the working body concerned and on the working body, that this measure of consolidation of healthcare is just one of the necessary measures to remedy this problem. We have therefore drawn additional conclusions on both working bodies mainly with a view to making the Ministry of Health or the Government commit to a more serious reflection on this issue and, even now, starting to think about how the necessary measures will consolidate this health treasury over a long period of time. I do not think that we have achieved this purpose, because the government has not prepared this for the second reading, but it did not think it necessary, because it thinks it will be a solo measure - I have called it a fire-fighting measure, and I insist on it - to heal a wound, and the patient is very sick. I don't think that's the right approach. I believe that this problem will certainly be again in the National Assembly more than half a year and we will discuss it again. In doing so, we missed one of the opportunities, namely the opportunity to discuss the measure and decide on a wider range of other measures. I'm a little disappointed in the government's indifference to this issue, because it doesn't show cards, it can have them, I don't know, but I'm sorry it doesn't show them. It does not show the measures by which it wants to strike a long-term balance in the health treasury. This is certainly a very short-sighted policy. This policy won't last another six months. Six months from now, I don't know if the government will bring back just another raise or something. I'd like to know earlier, but we didn't find out. Of course, it is difficult to agree to such non-systematic and partial measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the law in full? Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly. Our Group of Members cannot support this law responsibly. The reasons are clear from the debate. This is the wrong approach. We demand and expect that there will only be a time in the National Assembly when we can discuss this issue in a broad way and that the government will also present us with an integrated vision of how it will address this problem, which is actually the life problem of our society, but which has its budgetary and public financial implications, which we are dealing with, again, in a fire-fighting way and knowing that we do not have enough water. This is an insurmountable approach, we cannot support it responsibly, and we will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I conclude the debate and note that no amendments have been adopted in the second reading of the draft law, so no amendments can be tabled in the third reading. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Vote explanation, please. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, fellow Members of the Government, to explain my vote. I will vote against this law. I will vote against it because I don't even know whether this rate of 0.20 solves the pension fund in any way. I don't know, not me, not my colleagues, not the government representatives, whether this rate is too low, right or too high. I didn't get that answer. That's all I could think of. For this reason, this is actually the only consequence that I am against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u83	Much has been said, and many of the dilemmas have opened up. I believe that this has also achieved little or no purpose. I am surprised that the government has not responded to the committee's request, I consider this not to be ignorance, but to, excuse me, the inability of this government to approach the problem in an integrated manner. To a starving, dying patient, offer a dry crust of bread and say whether to give a piece of crust or nothing. It's a question of what to do. Perhaps it is better to let it fall into a coma and then make an alarm and take measures that will be ten times harder and crueler and more expensive than giving a fair piece of bread. The man is indeed in a dilemma, but when he stands before this and that hard crust of bread, I will vote in favour, knowing that we have a sad government that cannot approach this problem in an integrated manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision, to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 10. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. Since the mother's working body has addressed additional conclusions on, the right committee is proposed to the government and does not refer them to the National Assembly, and we cannot vote on them either. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE Tax PROCEDURE, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mr. Koncan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u85	Article 34 of the Income Act or the Tax Procedure Act, as of 1 January 2002. This first paragraph of that Article provides that legal and other persons, private persons, public authorities and local authorities must provide the tax authority with data for the last fiscal year by 31 January of the current year. However, in the second paragraph, which is repealed by the Constitutional Court, it is stipulated that the content of the data, the form and the method of delivery shall be prescribed by the Minister responsible for the financing. On this basis, each year, the Minister responsible for Finance issued an order for the delivery of income-based data. In view of the fact that the collection of those data is one of the main instruments through which a type of data is subject to control by the taxpayers of the projected income-generating expenditure, the proposed law before you clearly defines the type of data, the content of those data collected for this purpose, as explained and explained in the Constitutional Court decision. The adoption of the proposed amendment will actually allow the transmission of all these data to those persons who are legally competent or obliged to do so and relate to the 2001 fiscal year income. The Government therefore proposes that the proposal for a law, together with the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, be fully adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, this is for discussion and decision on individual articles and amendments tabled. We have two articles in the basic text. The Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 1. As we have heard from the government representative, this is what the government supports. I shall put Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Article 1 amendment first. Let's vote! 43 Members and Members are present. I think there's more of us, so I'd like some attention. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. The vote was 43.) [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 45 present. Since no one has left the hall, please let those who have now forgotten to print their reply to do so now that we have voted on Article 2 for the second time. We vote on Article 2. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 2 is also fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I think it's the same reason as before, so please, the second time we decide on the title, you'll be a little more careful. Second, we decide on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 44 present. This means that the second time we voted, we are inconclusive. In accordance with the rules of procedure, I interrupt work for 10 minutes, we continue at 12.51.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u87	Dear colleagues and colleagues who are in the vicinity, please join us because we will have a third vote. Since we have not successfully voted on the title of the law, we will now decide on the title of the law, we will vote for the third time. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I was informed from the services that when we voted on the amendment to Article 1, I also forgot to vote on Article 1 in full. We will therefore vote on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendment to Article 1 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified candidates want to table an amendment to this, please do so. Before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Because no, I ask the secretariat, there is no representative between us if there has been any non-compliance with the adoption of the amendment. Guess we'll just wait a second. There's no discrepancy. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has tabled a proposal, an additional proposal for a decision contained in the 13.11.2001 report, to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the accounting issue or the enforcement procedures for the collection of mandatory parliamentary contributions, membership fees and, by the end of February 2002, to prepare an appropriate systemic solution to that issue. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. As we concluded at the end of item 5 of the agenda, this is the proposal of the Economic Zones Act under the third reading, in the context of the third procedure, we have it on the table - on the proposal of the Government, in the third reading, due to the announcement of the preparation of the amendment, we have it on the table. Therefore, I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article A1 to delete the new A1. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As a first-signed amendment adopted yesterday in the context of the second reading of the Law on Economic Zones, I would like to express my surprise and, in my opinion, my regret at not understanding those who have drafted an amendment in the third reading, which would, of course, preserve the text of Article 1 as it is in the law without any addition. When I carefully read the explanation and also yesterday's self-explanatory magnetogram, which Mr State Secretary viewed as negative this amendment, I must conclude that this is a misunderstanding for me. This is probably an urgent misunderstanding, because the proposed amendment, which has been adopted, is not and will not be established by any zone unless the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees. This is Article 7 of the Act, which speaks of the economic zone being established by the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and also of the conditions under which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may give consent to the establishment of a new economic zone. Similarly, the establishment of a new economic zone requires the consent of the customs administration of the Republic of Slovenia. There are also conditions - I think this is Article 8 - under which such a zone can be established. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not in any way alter the basic objective of the proposed amendments to this law, as it does not change the taxation system, nor does it change the system of any other relief which, in terms of Slovenia's integration into the European Union, could be disputed. In other words, the Government or the Government is proposing an explanation to make negotiations more difficult in the two key areas under way. I think it's state aid and tax policy. However, the government does not say that this will prevent negotiations. I believe that the aim and purpose of our negotiators is to ensure the best possible conditions for Slovenia when we join the European Union. If it gets a little difficult, I think it's not too bad, but it will take extra effort to successfully defend what the National Assembly in this law might or might have adopted yesterday. I see no reason why we should actually vote on an amendment that destroys our efforts yesterday, which means nothing in fact. We have not established any new zones, but we have given the opportunity to establish zones where economic interests will be established and where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees. This is, in my opinion, totally incontrovertible and completely legitimate and also legitimate demand, which we Members, signed under this amendment, have submitted to this National Assembly in order to align the conditions of management in other border areas of the Republic of Slovenia, not only in Italian-Slovenian or Austrian-Slovenian, where these two zones are organised. Let me point out one more thing. If this amendment is adopted in the third reading, then the text of the original law or applicable law, which does not say that the zones can be established, but says that the zones are established where the airport is and where the port is adapted for international passenger transport. That means we have to, or we should have already established the zone in Brunika. That's how you can understand the phrase "be established." This adds the word'may create', which is fundamentally different and gives a lot of potential for a thorough consideration as to whether these zones will actually be established in practice or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. If, at any time, I can answer, on this proposal and on these issues, as a matter of principle, Mr Auschwitz, in fact, with all the eloquence and expertise, why the Government opposes this proposed amendment. Especially because of our internal, Slovenian conditions. Why? In any event, because of this, because if I were to accept such a dictatorship, I would in the first place increase the discretionary right of the government to give additional work, on some legal basis, an additional right between business entities, between regions, between areas and so on. Okay, that could be the deal. However, what is meaningful and systemicly incorrect is that this would further introduce tax inequality between economic operators in our country. Third, which is very important, if the proposals were, the intention of the proposer of such an amendment is to increase employment, increase investment and so on, then with the existing State aid schemes for the development of the regions and so on, because more resources are available than I explained yesterday, this is not the purpose. The tax reliefs resulting from this are intended for those undertakings that are already making profits. So that doesn't mean it's not the right thing to do. So we absolutely insist on it. The government considers that this would not be done in accordance with the Code of Conduct in the field of corporate taxation, which is also under scrutiny in the practice of the Member States of the European Union and others, where, for example, under this Code - this is not a binding document, but a code of conduct - we must act and, in this case, try to act in order to ensure equality between taxpayers in the field of corporate tax law in our country in order to ensure this equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to discuss this further, we'll be discussing it in the afternoon. It's 13.03. I think there's still committees. Thank you very much. The National Assembly shall continue its work at 2.30 p.m. with the newly interrupted item 5 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u92	We're moving on to the session. I would like to announce that they are further excused for the continuation of the 10th session of Maximilian Lavrinc from 4 p.m. onwards, Andrej Fabjan for the afternoon part of the session, Aloise Sok for the afternoon part of the session and Dr Andrej Bajuk for the afternoon part of the session. Please, let's put our cards in. Please, let's put our cards in, because we're going to figure out the conjunctivities. We're picking up the conundrum! There are 46 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and can proceed with the work. As you recall, we are at third reading under the rapid procedure of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Economic Zones Act. Does anyone else want to discuss the government's amendment to A1? Member Tarchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am not satisfied with Mr Končan's explanation and I also do not intend to support the amendment of the government. Mr Končan has now spoken verbally to us that he is opposed mainly for internal reasons. However, in the written explanation of the amendment given by the Government, four of the five points refer to the reasons for the entry into the European Union. Look, there are plenty of times when we are afraid of entering the European Union and are afraid to keep our jobs, we are usually filled with the mouths of the measures that the state will anticipate to make this transition as easy as possible. However, when we come to concrete solutions, we are afraid to take some steps. I therefore note that these two explanations are inconsistent and, of course, I also wonder whether we did the right thing yesterday when we rejected the extension of the operating time of economic zones. That is why I do not intend to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? That's where I see my hand. Please, Member Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. When we discuss this law and also this amendment, I am kind of reminded of the extraordinary hiccups which were by the government Members and also the proponents at the time of the adoption of the constitutional law in 1998. I wonder what the real purpose of the adoption of this law was. Again, I wonder, of course, with strong opposition from government Members to the government proposal, when the government should have some information about what is important for our integration into Europe. I have to say, I'm not clear on what's behind this. But if I remember what it was like to remember how colleague Anderlich was determined then, what incredible positive economic consequences would follow, and what we see now, and after this taking on certain Members for certain specific goals, I am in a slight sceptic state. In fact, here I read in the Green Spot, for example, in a Saturday interview, to whom the economic zone is useful - shareholders, owners, for example, Luke Koper, who then poured these capital effects through the ownership of the bank into the Italian hands of the bank. There seems to be similar interests in other areas of Slovenia. I must say that through the adoption of this law, and in all this I see that it is the fault that the bank will be, say, in Italian hands, even within this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u96	Dear colleague, let's limit ourselves to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u97	I'm limited to marriage. I must say that I would expect the then applicants to cooperate fully in this debate and also to illustrate what they have achieved, what the national economy has achieved. It does not matter to me or bother me that today we find that only some owners, precisely defined, have benefited from this, such owners, with whom the Slovenian soul died a long time ago. For such to adopt special laws so that they can pour that capital into some special, private pockets, which they will then even hand over to others, is unacceptable to me. I would like the government to be as honest as possible in informing us exactly what was going on in these areas. If all the rules of the game were respected, these zones could really have some positive effect on the country, for the national economy. Now those who have had the most impact of them, too, admit, say, "the economic zone has not been intercepted". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Who wants it? Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. We're far apart, that might be a little bit of a problem. Otherwise, Mr Terchoon has already made some remarks on the arguments for the adoption of the government amendment. I, too, am confused when it is no longer at the forefront, at least after the last explanation, of the problem of integrating Europe into the European Union and adapting our legislation. As could be understood, this law, which we have already adopted in the second reading, in the text as proposed, is what needs to be aligned with the legislation. We have heard that this is becoming a more internal problem of Slovenia. This is a really little larger question, for in a detailed review of the explanation of the proposed law, where the developmental focus of the amended law, in particular the stimulation of new jobs, is the very reason why I have decided to table the amendments. The border area, in particular with Croatia, look at all the statistics and you will see that one common denominator is beautiful: 15 per cent or more of the unemployment rate. I think that the zones where there would be stimulation of employment where it is already difficult to find people and need to drive them from other regions, here I do not mean the Maribor zone, are more questionable from this point of view. Stimulating this type of development is only necessary in environments that are lagging behind. Once again, I stress that we are the amendments that we adopted yesterday, and we will not establish any zone that is still in the hands of interest. First, there must be stakeholders who are willing to establish a zone, then it is in the hands of local communities, who must draw up spatial plans and implement urban plans for such zones, in the hands of the government and in the hands of the customs administration. The idea that it is pointless to leave such decisions to the government is that I cannot agree, because there is almost no law to be adopted in this Parliament where we do not leave operational decisions to the government. All the legislation we adopt is that we leave decisions to the government, and the National Assembly creates the basis for such decisions by law. And this thesis that we can't leave this decision to the government right now, it just can't take it. If this should last, and if some arguments persist, then the amendments to this Act should be substantially different and virtually all articles should be amended or even deleted, especially those referring to the conditions for the establishment of new zones. These conditions in the law, if it remains as it has been submitted and if the amendment of the government is adopted, are no longer necessary. In this case, there are two zones and the end and the end. Then, let's say, there will be no more zones in Slovenia. These two, who are, will be working until 2010. However, the law we will adopt has all the content of how to establish the zone, under what conditions and under what conditions it will work. The conditions relating to the tax system have been changed, which is not in accordance with European rules. Therefore, I am surprised that the law, as we adopted in the second reading, would remain definitively adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. I would ask the Secretary of State to define the concept of an economic zone, because, as far as I know, the Government's arguments have not convinced me to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u102	Dear colleague, we are discussing an amendment, and you would like to extend your debate to broader issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u103	That's not true, Mr. Chairman. I am discussing the Economic Zones Act and the amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to a representative of the Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On these three questions, or on these questions, which you have asked the three Members, and also on the question raised by Mr Jerovšek, the Government's amendment is essentially explained in detail, and at least five points explain why the government does not propose to adopt this amendment. Mr. Tarchoon, in no way did the government want to rank one of these five points. I put it on my own, I'd say, tax inequality. If you have already identified the government's response and the explanation adopted by the government at today's meeting, with only the role of Secretary of State responsible for the tax and customs system, then I must say in this context why I have highlighted this. The introduction of tax equality into our tax system is, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and the competent State Secretary not to do so. That's why I had to explicitly point out this point two, who's talking about it. At the same time, I would also point out that we have a code of conduct for corporate taxation. It is essentially a single code, whereby between European countries within certain associations, within some mutual agreements, agreements, they assess the conduct of individual countries, how they view certain established tax principles in fiscal systems. If we are here, this assessment is being carried out at this very time, of course, it cannot matter whether we defend ourselves, because this can really be an internal thing in this context, how can we explicitly prefer certain areas, certain taxpayers and so on with the fiscal system. We cannot because we do not have a basis for this, and because such a matter can be the very quick result of a constitutional initiative. That's why I warned you. What Mr Diaca asked what is the essence of the economic zone is the essence of the economic zone, is that, under certain conditions, the state will allow some economic relief to be extended so that this area develops economically. To develop in the sense that entities function normally, live and operate and continue to operate. The economic zones as they are today, at this moment, from the data, if you also want, because it was mentioned in this interview, where the President of the administration of Luke Koper, I think it was very fair and very fair and very professional to reply that the economic zone, as it was set up, did not bring all that it could. It could not, as the number of employees has not increased, of course investments have increased, and for these investments we are still paying 40% of the tax relief in our tax system for investments in the current fiscal year. Of course, that was not the main purpose. The main purpose of the law at the time of its adoption was to be placed in an equal position with certain fiscal systems of other countries. Today the situation after that is different. Today, Europe closes "off-shore" precisely because of this principle of equality. That is why we have proposed a new law on economic zones in general. However, in terms of what has been proposed, for these reasons, which are explicitly stated in the five points that we are also rejecting this amendment, we estimate that the existing State Aid Act, State aid schemes or state aid schemes provide significantly more transparent and better opportunities for investment in employment in these areas than you mentioned, Mr Ašič, than to regulate it with the Economic Zones Act, which may be controversial in this respect. This does not mean that the government is opposed to this being enforced in these areas in order to reduce this so that it does not stimulate itself. On the contrary. The existing State aid schemes need to be used, rather than introducing this further into such a non-transparent scheme, I would say, but above all through the tax system, an unequal way for other taxpayers. That's why we put it this way in the explanation and why I specifically put these things as such. That is why the government expressly rejects this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Please. [[A voice from behind.]] Ambassador Tarchon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. Mr. Secretary of State! I think that Mr Ašič has already responded to all of your statements that you have just made. With the amendment adopted in the second reading with the first-signed Mr Ašić, no obligatoryity has been given to the establishment of economic zones in the proposed areas. So we don't set up economic zones. On the other hand, if we were to read it strictly positively, we could also interpret it in such a way that we should have economic zones where we do not have them at all. I really don't know where you came up with this conclusion, and where you set these criteria just so that they can or must be here, and here's not even the possibility we're suggesting there can be that it could be. That's why your explanation doesn't convince me, and I'm staying with my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you. Member of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u109	I am announcing a request or request for a 15-minute recess following the adjournment of the debate before deciding to consult once again in the Group of Members on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u110	I'm closing the debate. Does anyone else want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] A proposal was made for a 15-minute recess. I'm closing the debate. A 15-minute recess was proposed for consultation in the parliamentary group. So I'm taking 15 minutes off. We'll pick it up at 15/11.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u111	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We're moving on to the session. Please take your seats. Let's figure out the conundrum. Let's figure out the conundrum, please! 49 Members and Members are present. We can continue the session because we are concluding. Is Mr Ašič interested in the floor on behalf of the Group of Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article A1. Let's vote please! There are 51 Members and Members present. 27 for, versus 17. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? It's not broken. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Let's vote please! There are 54 Members and Members present. 44 for, against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the government, Dark Končan, the Secretary of State and Mateja Vraničar, the advisers. Thank you very much. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia's defence forces in 1994 - 2003, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the course of its consideration of the meeting. I welcome Minister Anton Grisold and Miran Botaj, Undersecretary of State in this Ministry. Does the government want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u112	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the Ministry of Defence in the first half of this year, we re-evaluated first the changes in the international security environment of the country, then the implementation of two documents, a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2010 and a document of the scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces, even until 2010. We have analysed the implementation of the annual programmes for the implementation of the action plan for Slovenia's membership in NATO and have also assessed or evaluated the implementation of the fundamental development programmes in the past. The overall conclusion of all these analyses was that the State could not provide staffing and even less material conditions for such a number of the Slovenian Army's military forces. On the other hand, we have informed you of these findings during the time of the preparation of the new resolution on the national security strategy. According to the Ministry of Defence, we have prepared a proposal for further transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the essence of which is to reduce the military composition to a maximum of 26,000 members. We have submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a new general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces to replace the programme from the beginning of 2000. Under the new programme, the intervention force will need to be increased [[This is the military structure that has the perfect professional composition]] , the development of major and complementary forces, in particular intervention forces and major forces, must be adequately equipped, continued and completed by key combat systems that have begun to be implemented through basic development programmes and, of course, to improve the overall readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The internal structure of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army needs to be changed. The new concept of the Slovenian Army was also previously studied with eminent foreign military experts as well as, of course, with the working bodies of NATO. In June this year, the concept was discussed and endorsed by the National Security Council and was confirmed by the government in July of this year when it adopted a programme of measures to improve the preparedness of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the period 2001-2004. So far, at a strategic, developmental and conceptual level, we have identified the basic guidelines in the resolution on the national security strategy adopted by the National Assembly this year. Prior to the completion of the defence strategy, which will be adopted by the government this year, the Ministry is finalising the drafting of a proposal for amendments and the completion of the defence law. At least three must be done in order to continue the process of transformation of the Slovenian army and to complete it during a period of time. 1. The approved budget for 2002, 2003 at an undeclared level, since it allows at least the minimum resources for the regular activity of the Slovenian Armed Forces over the next two years, will not, of course, be able to maintain the current state of readiness of the military. 2. Amendments to the law on the provision of funds for basic development programmes should be adopted to extend the implementation of the law mainly from 2003 to 2007 and thus provide additional resources. 3. Amendments and additions to the Defence Act should be adopted to allow the early retirement of a certain number of Ministry workers or to implement other solutions to ensure the staffing conditions for the continuation of the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in particular in the field of human resources. As you know, the current staffing structure of the Slovenian Army is inadequate, too many senior officers, too few soldiers and, of course, also subordinates. The proposal to supplement the Law on Fundamental Development Programmes of the Defence Forces requires in particular the need to continue the programmes of the organisation and equipment of the intervention forces and programmes supporting the command and control system in the Slovenian Army, complementing logistics and the air defence system. We all know that regular annual budgets cannot ensure the implementation of these programmes, but I stress that they are necessary, whether or not Slovenia will become a member of NATO or not, and whether or not we are reducing the military composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Therefore, we propose that a total of 65 billion Slovenian Tolars be provided by amending the current Basic Development Programmes Act in the period up to and including 2007. The amount will be coordinated annually, with the movement of the euro rate, and the proposed funds will allow the completion of the 10th Motorised Battalion, the 17th Battalion Military Police, the establishment or formation of 20th Motorised Battalion, the completion of the command and control system, logistics and air defence. The air defence system will continue and be completed, in particular with a focus on tactical control centres, the creation of two security units, intervention units, and automatic control of air defence weapons will also be established, of course with the possibility of integration into an integrated air defence system. As you have seen, the government is further proposing an amendment to increase the funds for the logistics system from 15 billion Slovenian Tolars to 20 billion Slovenian Tolars. The main reason we came with the amendments was that after the accident at Poček, a comprehensive analysis of the state of ammunition or ammunition above 14.5 mm was made in the Slovenian Army General Staff. It was recently dealt with by the government. It is clear from the analysis that certain types of ammunition must be replaced without delay, otherwise it will not be possible to do so in the coming years. Most of the ammunition was taken from the former Yugoslav army and only some have been bought in recent years. It goes, I stress, for a problem not only of a material nature, but it is of direct importance, both for the readiness of the Slovenian Army and for the safety of all its members. With the regular budget, we will try to provide at least the most urgent funds each year for the regular activity of the Slovenian Armed Forces and this will also have to be adapted to the manual of credits for the implementation of the core development programmes. The extension of the Basic Development Programmes Act is proposed by 2007. Why? Because the planning period is also following the NATO methodology, a 6-year period. During this period, as we say, we have developed solutions for the further progress of the transformation process of the Slovenian Army. We do not change the fundamental solutions of the so far Basic Development Programmes Act, such as the coverage of purchases through loans, counter-requirements, the way in which the government is carrying out accounts and the powers of the government to determine annual procurement plans and dynamics. The current system of law enforcement is well established and does not create any insurmountable problems. Mr Vice-President, in light of what I have said, I reiterate that the proposed Basic Development Programmes Act represents an integral part of the budget package for the next period, namely the period 2002-2003, and thus represents a final whole, which, together with other changes in development, doctrinal and normative solutions, will not only allow for a higher level of readiness of the Slovenian Army and its connectivity with the NATO military liaison organisations, but will enable the achievement of our strategic objective, which is to establish, rather a smaller but well-equipped, trained and effective military organisation. In view of the support of the home committee and the committee responsible in the State Council, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the law, together with the editorial supplement to Article 3, which has been established by the Defence Committee, and, of course, I propose that you also adopt the amendments of the government that I have explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Respectable. At its 10th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Defence addressed the law, taking note of the draft law, the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Assembly on Law and Legal Affairs and the opinion of the Commission on the political system of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introduction, the text of the bill was presented by Minister Anton Grizold. The proposed amendment of the Basic Development Programmes Act would provide funding of 60 billion Slovenian tolars, according to the Minister, during the period including until 2007. The amount is expected to be aligned annually with the movement of the euro rate. The proposed funds are intended to allow the completion of the equipment of the 10th Motorised Battalion and some other units. The Minister also stressed that the proposed law is an integral part of the budget package for 2002 and 2003, and at the same time represents a whole which, together with other changes in development, doctrinal and normative solutions, will allow not only a higher degree of readiness of the Slovenian Army but also its connectivity with other military organisations. Of course, after the presentation, we also asked different questions, including whether there are any guarantees that additional funds of 60 billion Slovenian Tolars, which are foreseen by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, will be used deliberately and that real planning will also be used. It also drew attention to the discrepancy between the scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces established by 2010 and the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes by 2007. The opinion was expressed that the Government could not reduce the scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces to 26,000 soldiers until it submitted an appropriate legal act to the National Assembly. It was also felt that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should correct the NATO membership plan by reducing the number of soldiers at the moment, at least so its representatives spoke. However, some other questions were raised. After the general discussion, the members of the Committee supported the adoption of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994-2003, following a rapid procedure. On the basis of the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Parliament for Law and Legal Affairs, the Defence Committee drafted and adopted the following amendment to Article 3 on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes: "In the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, the following text shall be deleted: 'In the period from the entry into force of the amendments and the addition of this Act." The explanation is that the amendment is editorial in nature, but it is based on the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Council. Following a discussion on the articles of the draft law or amendments to an individual article, the Defence Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in the years 1994-2003 should be considered and adopted, together with the amendment of the Committee, by means of a rapid procedure." And as already mentioned by the Minister of Defence, the government later sent an amendment to the National Assembly, which the Minister also explained. Therefore, the members of the Defence Committee propose that the procedure should continue as proposed by the Government and be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you. He would like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. He doesn't want to. Representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. Just give me a moment to write someone down. Let us please raise the hands of those who wish to do so on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much. Mr Marsič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, I would like to give an opinion on the law submitted. This is an important document that comes from the key importance of Slovenia's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, but I think it is mainly in NATO. It is an important document, not because of this, of course, but mainly because of the reason why the Slovenian Armed Forces or our defence structures are being prepared or continued in accordance with the resolution on the national security strategy adopted by this National Assembly, and accordingly also with the equipment of their own army. That is why liberal Democrats support the adoption of this law, including the amendments or amendments tabled by the Government regarding the acquisition of additional funds, in particular for the purchase of newer ammunition. Of course we are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u117	Come on, please, peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u118	In particular, I would like to point out that what Mr Petan referred to as a debate in the Committee on Defence's report was, of course, primarily the discussions of liberal Democrats, namely our members, and related essentially to the adoption and adoption of both this document on fundamental development programmes and changes to the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as it seemed important to us that these two documents should be adopted at the same time. Of course, the scope and structure should, in our opinion, be adopted earlier and further to the basic long-term programmes. The Minister then said and, of course, realized that the second document - which means a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces - [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u119	I'm asking for peace again!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u120	mediated to Parliament before the adoption of the budget. [[...]] This has also been done, of course, although we can see that we have not had the opportunity and the opportunity to deal with the document. Thus, this chapter remains open. This is particularly important because it has already been said in the introduction that we are now based primarily on the scope and structure of this document on the equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which was created on 29 February 2000 and is talking about the structure of the entire volume of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which accounts for 66 000 700 people and not 26 000 people, as the Minister has already announced, as the Government has already discussed and is also recorded in the new document on the scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the overall long-term programme of development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces. I would like to reiterate that we will support this law, even because it is linked to the adoption of a budget, which will soon be in our possession in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. He has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So this is one of the laws about which, of course, there have been many debates and of course, everyone can also have a view. However, if we start at the beginning, if we ask ourselves: Who we are, who we are, we will probably quickly find the answer here, that we are an independent country, and of course we are proud of this, because we have celebrated our 10th anniversary recently. Having a country also means having one's institutions, such as those that work, those that are good, that can serve a purpose for which they have also been formed and established and for which, of course, money is also given. That means if we have our own country, we have to act like one. And even when it comes to things that we don't like very much, we do. This is also true when it comes to financial resources. Of course, then the question of the objectives is immediately raised and how to achieve this and whether we have alternatives to this. After September 11, things changed significantly, and alternatives in any area are getting smaller and even where they are, they are usually worse than they were before. If we involve this in the process of globalisation that is emerging in the world; the globalisation of interests, if I start with the economic field, political globalisation and after 11 September, is certainly very much a defence globalisation, if I may call it that. This, of course, also raises the issue of ensuring our own safety. There may also be differences in thinking. They're alternative. One of the roads is a completely independent path. This means that we must take care of ourselves, for our own safety, for our defence, and we must take into account that we must have the resources for all areas. This is said, even in the defence area, to cover all possible sources of threat with different defence systems. Or another possibility of looking for connections, so I also mentioned globalisation. And of course, globalisation is also one of the opportunities to find partners, to seek alliances. And as I mentioned earlier, after 9/11, it's very important. Things have changed and the provision of security of its own is placed under different options and alternatives are significantly less. And then, of course, integration issues, if we mention economic globalisation: EU integration or not - there is probably no alternative. It is also a significantly reduced alternative, if ever an alternative, or NATO, which represents collective security, or something else. Regardless of which model someone chooses, in both cases he must have his armed forces, he must have his soldiers, he must have equipment and take care of his safety. Of course, there is an immediate important difference between the two then. If we decide to seek alliances, in particular in our case for NATO, then this organization, of course, has 50 years of history. This means that certain standards, certain rules, specific rules of conduct have been established. It's well known, there's no discussion about it. The only thing that can be discussed is whether, of course, these standards fit us or not. The difference, of course, is a separate path in which we can discuss individual standards to the point of disability, what is needed, what is not necessary, why is it, why what is known to us, of course, that we waste time and do nothing. The proposal before us is essentially necessary and necessary in both cases. Now, if we go to specific matters, to our country. In Slovenia, politics almost consensually decided to connect and seek alliances, decided to travel to NATO. This means that we also adopt certain standards, certain rules of conduct. On the basis of this, so-called consensus in Parliament, the representatives of our country, of course, took this as their support. This has, of course, been made a great deal of promise on an international scale, including in Brussels at the headquarters of the Alliance, and now it has been so long since promises have ended, when I promise no one else believes and when something has to be done in practice and these promises have to be fulfilled. That's what you say. You have to go from words to actions. The money that is, of course, defined in this law is the one that allows our armed forces to achieve those standards that are in force in the alliance. Of course, this is a dedicated money that can only be spent on the purchase of equipment and weapons. The fact is, we've had this law since 1994, [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u123	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u124	That most of these funds, which were provided by 2003, have already been used. And, of course, with this money provided by this law, this path continues. It is therefore a matter of purpose, of specific means, of means for the acquisition of arms and equipment. Of course, the money available in the past was, in effect, spent. It is necessary to look the truth in the eye and to say that the purpose of this money has not always been what it should have been. At least in the media it was detectable because something else was also difficult to establish seriously that this money was not always treated completely rationally. And this has also somehow been proved by the study of members of the Alliance, who have carefully followed our path, our approach to the NATO alliance. I would only mention General Garret's study, which takes into account our actual situation and which also takes into account our options, our economic situation, our economic prospects and the country's potential for armed forces arising from our economic potential. Here are sometimes different objectives, as was money spent in the past, but this is now another story. The fact is that the funds allocated to this area need to be carefully planned and then spent carefully. In doing so, I would mention anti-procurement, which means that our domestic goods are somehow paying off purchases that will also take place abroad. We view this as a two-way trip: if we buy from someone else, then we want them to buy our products. And, of course, here comes the issue of control over the funds spent. Experience from the past is not exactly the best, so it is also right to note that we do not want to have any problems or problems, while our security structure would not be any better than it is now, or our armed forces would not be armed as they might be. And, of course, we take into account that in the first place is the interest of the state, and that the promises we made abroad show our credibility, that we are also able to do so. Good control over the use of these funds is also the best answer for those who standards in countries with long-standing nationality - and who are also members of NATO - trying to politicise with a question, as they call it, whether more cannons or more butter to give an immediate answer. For the only good control over this spending can be a guarantee over the use of these funds, in order to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. Without the objectives set, there can be no progress. As I have said, with good supervision and with respect for the obligations we have also heard from representatives of our government in relation to anti-extraditions and thus the use of this money, we, of course, support such a proposal in the Social Democratic Party, and we expect Slovenia to achieve the level of defence readiness that we must have, whether we will join NATO or not, because we are building the armed forces primarily on ourselves. Involvement in NATO, which is one of our policy priorities, can only be an incentive or a weakness that somehow forces us not to lose ourselves in unnecessary debates: why is that, but: how do we get there, in the most expensive way and with the greatest possible effect? And of course, if we have this in mind, then in the Social Democratic Party we support this law and we also want to achieve the conditions that the Alliance expects of us, especially in the light of the meeting in Prague next year, that is to say, that is to say, in front of the door, that we will certainly be more prepared than we were before the Madrid meeting, because it was a more verbal desire for this to happen to us, and of course we have not had a lot of things arranged. Our wish is to be better prepared now. In this respect, we will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the SMS Group, Mr Štemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, on this occasion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's proposal to deal with changes to the law in a rapid manner due to the interests of the defence of the country, first of all, we would like to stress that, unlike most of the other laws proposed by the Government for adoption following a rapid procedure, the law on amendments and additions to the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the fundamental development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994 to 2003 really needs to be adopted quickly. The necessary quality and safe military equipment to ensure these changes in the law in the Young Slovenia Party is considered real. However, we also point out that the government sometimes likes to turn into a multifaceted new need, especially something else. Let us recall the purchase of a government aircraft, which, when explaining the proposal, has not been written down as one of the reasons why there is a lack of resources to arm our country. All the money and new, better equipment will not be left unless the reorganization of the Slovenian Army continues. This must ensure restructuring and updating and adaptation to NATO standards. Since NATO membership is one of the priority political objectives, it is therefore necessary not only to foresee or draw up a plan, but actually to resolve the all-political and strategic issues related to the entry into NATO. In short, in the Party of Young Slovenia we will support changes in the law, especially in the desire that Slovenian soldiers will not die in the future due to poor military equipment. The possible irrational use of these assets, the type of government aircraft, is strongly opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you. Does a representative of any other parliamentary group want to perform? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has applied in writing, I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jelko Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u128	Mr Vice-President or Chairman, Mr Minister! As already said by Dorian Marshič, our Group certainly supports the adoption of this law. But just the conversation and the common realization that this law must be adopted simultaneously with some other development documents in the field of defence has led us to learn and to take an additional position to expect some other documents. As we have been told here today, provided and also proven, the government has fulfilled its part of the obligation in due time and sent the material to the National Assembly. But this does not mean that the Members are familiar with this material. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Petan, President of the Defence Committee, who has had a very long performance on behalf of his Group of Members, to ensure and allow a meeting of the Defence Committee before the start of the budgetary debate, that this material, rather than being made in the dark of any case or case, should be carried out with him - that Members and Members of the Labour Committee will be informed in due time and then all these efforts will be supported at the same time without doubt. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u129	Wait! I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u130	It seems to me that this would be good and also appropriate for the public to understand the support expressed by the National Assembly and perhaps to contribute, at least in part, to the more active attitude of our public in the efforts of Slovenian political parties, the National Assembly and the Government for full membership in relation to NATO. In short, I expect the President of the Defence Committee to see to it that we receive, in due time, the material to be delivered to us is identified, even before the start of the budgetary debate. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you. A replica, maybe? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. So, Mr Kacin, I myself have received material from the President of the National Assembly, like all other Members. Now, if someone didn't get it, then it's none of my business. When this matter is also dealt with at the National Assembly, you will find it easier to coordinate in the coalition, you have the President of the National Assembly. This item is not included in the December session. So, I'm here alone to some extent without power. How am I now to coordinate coalition matters as an opposition MP, even though I am chairman of the Defence Committee? But I got the material, and I looked at it in particular -- not in my name, but it came first from the office of the President of Parliament. That's what we all got. But if you didn't get it, make a deal, because it wasn't sent in my name, because some of the materials come in my name. And that wasn't in that sense, and I've been paying particular attention to that. I don't know. Take note in the coalition, today you are "declared" to disability; and yesterday as well. You can't change your mind, and then you demand the opposition. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u133	Please, let's discuss the law, not some other matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u134	Yeah, we'd remember there before, and we'd warn someone else to get rid of it in the coalition, not now in this way, in this law, this. This law is important to me. In the opposition, we support it, as in the opposition, we also support some of the other programmes that the government promises from outside, rather than representatives of the ruling coalition. And let's get this straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you. It's a replica. Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you for your word. I would ask you to protect the authority of the president of the National Assembly, because what the president of the working body just blew up is simply inappropriate. We, members of the Defence Committee, have consulted before the beginning of this agenda item, after the government has assured us that the material has been forwarded to the National Assembly, and has determined that none of us have this material. But I'm sure the president of the labor force got this material. That's what he's confessed to now. What I am discussing before this is just an invitation, in which I am asking very nicely, by the representative of the opposition, but of the president of the working body, to allow the debate on the working body before the start of the budget debate next week. No more and no less. However, the fact that this is used here to attack the coalition seems most inappropriate to me, but above all it seems inappropriate to speak to the President of the National Assembly. We know very well who requested this material, demanded it by his mother's working body, apparently also received it, and this kind of debate, and such a diversion, is not appropriate. I only ask that Mr President of the Defence Committee perform his function and nothing more.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Member Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u138	Mr Vice-President, in fact, I also had a replica that went in the direction that Mr Jelko Kacin had just highlighted. As chairman of the committee, Mr Petan, despite being a member of the opposition, should know that he is in his capacity to deal with documents of particular importance for the consideration of the budget. And this was said at the time by the Defence Committee that this document, which had already been mentioned several times and was also promised by the Minister, would be dealt with before the budget itself was considered. However, the fact is that even if we are conducting procedures today, it will be too late and simply cannot be dealt with before the budget is considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan. I'm sorry, it just seems like the debate isn't about the law. Here you go, please. But I warn you, let me speak in terms of what this law somehow foretells. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to inform you that this morning, when I came to work, I received an assignment from the Defence Committee. Gentlemen! Then you can agree that you have to follow a fast procedure to get this last week, and I don't know, maybe before the law came. Besides, let me say the following. The committee gave a position by Mr Kacin on the matter on which he spoke, but nothing was decided by the committee, but the minister himself said that the government had discussed this, that it had adopted this law and would send it to Parliament as soon as possible. It wasn't on any request, as you said, Mr. Kacin. I got my motherhood today. If you want, I can convene a committee meeting today, in accordance with the rules of procedure, as necessary. But I couldn't do it yesterday because I haven't gotten a letter yet. It could have been somewhere along the way for a day, but "maternality" came today. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Please, let's limit ourselves to the law as such. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. This concludes the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. As has already been said, we have two amendments. First Amendment Sorry, I forgot to put to the vote the decision I had proposed earlier. [[...]] Let's vote please! There are 50 Members and Members present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Like I said, we have two amendments. The first one was proposed by the Defence Committee. It shall be written in the report of the Committee of 12.11 to 3. Another amendment to Article 3 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was received in a special letter of 11.11.2001. I am putting an article and both amendments to the debate. Anybody want to talk? I see there are no debaters. That's why we're going to move on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the first amendment to the 3rd member of the Defence Committee to decide. Please, we're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present for 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. I am making a second amendment to the decision, this is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting, please. There are 56 Members and 54 Members present, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The article was adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? I'm asking for peace. I'm asking for peace again. Anybody want to talk? Because it does not want to, we are moving on to decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 51, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The remaining articles were adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude and vote on the title of the law. Let's vote, please. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 56, against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The title of the law was adopted. We are moving on to the third reading - the bill. I note that two amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading or that Article 3 was amended. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] Neither did the amendment. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting, please. There are 60 Members and Members present, 53 for, against one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Since there is no report to point 22, we are moving on to 23. Dot of the Day - Defence Bill on Protection Lives Before Torture. The bill was tabled by Paul Rupar, a member of the assembly. Does the billmaker want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Before making a decision, the proposal for a law on the protection of animals against torture, which I put into the procedure in the previous reference to the National Assembly in 1998, is a proposal for a law on the protection of animals against torture. This has led me to this point until then, particularly in the field of animal protection, and to laws that have not been regulated in relation to torture, in addition to man, the only living beings who have a complete nervous system, also to remind them of the pains that are most often caused by man in modern life. This is said to have not been animals, but I say that they are not yet sufficiently protected. With the adoption of this law, Slovenia will be at least roughly equal to other European Union countries, which have been incorporated into their legal system for decades. I would like to point out that we are also reminded of the adoption of the law by membership in the United Nations Organization, the declaration on animal rights and, last but not least, UNESCO, for which [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u143	Wait! I'm asking for peace in the hall again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you very much. And, of course, other European conventions talking about animal protection. I do not want to say what is happening to different kinds of animals, but I would like to point out that the law that was adopted after the introduction of this law is now in force, but does not fully and completely guarantee everything that should be. With this law, although many have found that we do not change anything - of course I categorically reject it. Certainly, if the law is adopted, animals will be much more or less safe, especially against those who are targeted by law, against torturers, against different carriers, against others who do not treat animals as they do in the free world and in Europe. I'm sorry the law didn't get support from the mother body. What I can read or read in the report, including the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Booth, is, of course, hypocrisy. Because it says that otherwise the marriage is fine, that it is nice to take care of animals, but - of course, with a fig in your pocket - all of you are urged not to accept it. I appeal to all to support the amendments tabled by colleagues from other parties that make sense and complement the proposal tabled. Of course, I appeal to all that animals mean to you in any way - not just in photography for different clocks, but also as, I will say, friendship, even as people who give something to protect animals - to support this law. Thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the protection of animals against torture, which has been introduced into the legal procedure by means of a rapid procedure, was addressed by our committee, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. On behalf of the proposer, he presented this to his committee, colleague Franz Sušnik, and then we listened to the opinion of the government, which had already been taken by the proposer, colleague Rupar. I will only take the opinion of the secretariat and also the opinion of the Committee at the end. The secretariat therefore considers that this law, which is already regulated by the adopted law adopted in 1999, would be more useful to propose amendments to this current law or to propose a new law. This is what our committee listened to and agreed to, so that it finally decided that the law should be dealt with in a rapid manner and that it should be decided that the law on the protection of animals against torture should not be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? I'm afraid I have to find out he's not here. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mr Rupar, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. I listened to a comment by the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee. And I have to say, I find it even more pointless than I thought before. Simply because, in one word, it agrees with the warning, or with those who fight for animals against torture, it agrees that the situation in Slovenia is irregular, agrees with the rapid procedure, and then says: reject all of it. I will only point out, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, some very cruel facts that are happening in Slovenia. I would like to draw attention to the scandalous transport of livestock in trucks that travel through Slovenia, which do not have any supply stations, so we drive them across Slovenia like many others, even thirsty and hungry, that this should be agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture first and the Committee first to support it - and it can be supported by the adoption of this law. I would also like to point out that the police stations do not want to take any responsibility in the arrests or punishments of people who are torturing animals, unless they get him on the spot. Remember the mad torture of cats in the congregation from which I come, and to this day I have not heard anyone incriminating those tormentors who have killed and tortured animals in a horrible way. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we still do not have official animal asylum in Slovenia: that the country would support it to allow it to be financed, to care for people in any way – let us forget about Maribor, forget about Koper, these are the people who work for these animals on their own initiative, from their money, collecting it. Remember Slovenka of the year when we all applauded her when she got this title, czish, and the lady is really good at collecting the animals she found, taking care of abandoned dogs. How much did this country offer this lady? How much did we give her when we gave her the name Slovenka of the Year? Nothing! Nothing. The law you have in front of you, which I have in my hand, yet it regulates these things. All that I've been pointing out and other things, including the treatment of animals in homes where cruel images are taking place. This is also regulated in this law. And if with genuine dignity for animals, with the care that is sometimes so stressed, you really read and said that such a proposal, as in cases where you find cases of animal torture, if the Ministry of Agriculture really had the sense and the right attitude as well as the representatives of the Committee on Agriculture, you would never suggest that you reject it. Never. However, we will continue to watch various officials with kittens in their arms, with puppies by their side, members of the National Assembly, worshiping animals in newspapers and in the media, but they do not care if 100 and a hundred cows, pigs and other animals die during transport through their places. It's scandalous for me. And I call again, don't listen and don't accept the committee's proposal, but support the law if you care a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you. Does a representative of another parliamentary group want to perform? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I'm limiting the debate to five minutes because no one has applied in writing. Anybody want to talk? Please. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, it is likely that colleagues and colleagues are faced with a good look at all the assessments, opinions - both the governments and the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs, and not least, if we also carefully examine the draft law that my fellow Member, the head of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, has tabled and then tabled. It's hard to make up your mind, really. However, it is essential, both in the opinion of the Government and in the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, where it is possible to understand that the proposal for a law on the protection of animals against torture submitted by a fellow Member, Mr Rupar, contains some novelties, some amendments to the existing law, although opinions and wishes are of course to better complement the existing law, adopt the amendment of the law and so on. I don't think there's any room or time to argue here and look again for the culprit on a political basis, i.e. whether it's the opposition or the position. I think there's actually something that was said by the proposer, really. So that things that are not defined in the existing law are good for these things to be defined. Of course, I would be very happy if this moment also heard a very independent, professional assessment of whether it is really possible to supplement the existing law with all that this novel or this proposal of the new law brings, or not. Could it be better to adopt the proposal for an animal protection law tabled by Mr Rupar, because - I say 'ker' - if this opinion were heard professionally and independently - it contains all the elements of the previous law and some new ones. Such independent professional evaluations are sometimes not enough or vice versa: very few. At the same time, I would say that some calls and calls are certainly valid and should be heard. I will personally - if you allow so much more - decide and support the proposal of the Animal Protection Act, but with a bitter taste of inconclusiveness: whether it is really enough to supplement the existing law, or whether - I do not know if it is enough for this new bill to be adopted because it contains everything that contains the existing law and some other novelties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: "The proposal of the Animal Protection Act against Torture, the rapid procedure, shall not be adopted." Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] In this case, we'll make a decision. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 24 for, against 20. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day - the first defence proposal for a law on the subsidy of student food. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Mark Diacia. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He does.]] Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, a warm welcome to all present, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! We have before us a proposal for a law on student nutrition subsidies, which was published in Rapporteur 22.2.2001 on page 12. State assessment: The subsidised student diet is regulated by the Student Food Subsidisation Regulation, Official Journal 24/96, 86/97, 29/98, 103/2000, 124/2000 and 56/2001. The subsidised student diet is carried out at study centres in the Republic of Slovenia. The beginnings of the student diet subsidy date back to the beginning of 1992, when it began its own initiative by subsidising the Student Organisation of the University of Ljubljana. With the month of May 1992, the Republic of Slovenia provided funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to subsidise student diet. Thus a subsidized student diet is implemented in 2001 at the following study centres: Ljubljana, Maribor, Brežice, Celje, Koper, Piran, Portorož, Kranj, Radovljica, Bled, Nova Gorica, Novo mesto, Murska Sobota, Ptuj, Slovenj Gradec and Velenje. The selection of candidates for student food subsidies is based on a public invitation to tender, which is normally published annually by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The Ministry responsible for work, family and social affairs is responsible for the professional organisational tasks of subsidising student nutrition and controlling dedicated economic and efficient spending. For the performance of individual tasks, the Ministry authorises the Student Organisation of Slovenia or its self-government organisational form - these are both university student organisations - and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. The interrelationship of obligations and responsibilities between the Ministry, university student organisations, the Institute and the tenderers shall be governed by specific contracts. Student nutrition subsidies are carried out by means of vouchers. With March, they are based on the line code submitted by students to the student food provider for food subsidies by the beneficiaries. The amount of the grant for a student meal from the budget shall be the percentage of the amount for a worker's meal during the work set out in the collective agreement on non-agriculture. Budget resources for student food subsidies are intended and can only be used for this purpose. Means to cover the costs of implementing the subsidised student diet shall be provided by the Ministry. The beneficiaries of the subsidised student diet are all persons with student status who are educated in higher education and higher education institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, including graduates and undergraduate students and are not employed or registered in the register of unemployed persons in the institution. This status, however, is demonstrated by a student card or a certificate of entry, along with a personal photo document. The beneficiaries of student food subsidies were also children who fell in the war for Slovenia in 1991 or who died from injuries in that war, who had the status of a student, apprentice or student. Beneficiaries shall have the right to one subsidised meal for each working day. Beneficiaries with special needs due to severe or more severe functional damage, children who fell in the war for Slovenia in 1991 with student status and beneficiaries, parents are entitled to up to 5 additional subsidised meals per month. The right to additional subsidised meals on the basis of parenthood shall apply to any child who is also considered to be a beneficiary and may only be exercised by one of the parents. The following are some statistics on the implementation of the subsidised student diet for 1998, 1999 and 2000. The expenditure from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was after years: in 1998 1 billion 243 million, in 1999 1 billion 510 million, in 2000 1 billion 568 million. The proposal for 2001 is 1 billion 764 million, for 2002 1 billion 809 million and for 2003 1 billion 814 million. After each year the following number of meals was used: in 1998 3 million 425 thousand 636 meals, in 1999 3 million 781 thousand 599 meals and in 2000 3 million 673 thousand 644 meals According to the proposaler's assessment, subsidised nutrition of students must be regulated legally at a level that is placed in the long term among the rights arising from student status, that is by law. Reasons for adoption of the law and principles and objectives. The student diet subsidy scheme, which is now regulated by the Student Food Subsidisation Regulation, has proved to be effective and this standard raising instrument study deserves a permanent, legal-form system regime, for which is the most appropriate law adopted by the National Assembly. It is inappropriate for a subsidised diet of students, which is also part of the state's social measure, to be governed by a sub-legislative regulation. Above all, the issue of the sustainability and strength of this regime is highlighted. The legal regime governing the subsidisation of the student diet would adequately protect this right, which is derived from the student's status. Assessment of the financial implications for the state budget. The adoption of the law on subsidising student diet does not entail new obligations from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The expenditure from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia shall remain the same as that of the Student Food Subsidy Regulation. In this place, I would like to thank all those who were willing to co-propose this law. At the same time, I note that it is political will enough for this law to be adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The Chairman of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Committee considered the draft law at its 13th meeting on 7.11. The committee was given a similar explanation by the proposer's representative as it had before and the same thought about the bill by the government, which you will probably hear, so I would not repeat it. However, it is necessary to say that the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs in its written opinion has pointed to certain specific points and has made specific comments which, of course, should be taken into account when preparing the law for second reading. The members of the Committee agreed on the need to regulate this area by law, drawing attention to some of the issues raised in relation to the content of the individual articles. Some members of the Committee agreed that the proposed law guarantees stability for the regulation of subsidised student diet and thus eliminates the dilemmas as to how much of the budget for student diet should be at the time of annual adoption of the budget. Some members of the Committee also asked about the advantage of including this matter in a proposal for amendments and supplementing the law on employment and barriers to unemployment, which the Government is preparing after a presentation by a government representative, or whether we will continue to consider this matter in accordance with the procedure proposed by the proposer, this is a regular procedure. With regard to that dilemma, the Secretary of State also replied that the advantage of regulation in the adoption of the draft law was, by means of a rapid procedure, and that the proposed legal matter would thus be resolved more quickly by means of this procedure. After the discussion, the Committee of the National Assembly adopted a decision following: "The proposal for a law on subsidising student diet is a suitable basis for preparing a proposal for a second reading law. The proposer should take into account the opinions and conclusions of the written opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters when preparing the law for second reading." And that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want the word "representative" or "representative of the government"? [[He does.]] Staš Baloh Plahutnik, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you. The government addressed the proposal for a law or law submitted to the National Assembly on subsidisation of student diet. The subsidisation of student nutrition has not been properly regulated so far, but has been regulated by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the subsidisation of student diet and has been under the actual competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In view of the fact that the student food subsidy scheme has already been properly implemented, the proposed law is intended to take over existing solutions from the current student diet subsidy regulation, which is provided in the national budget each year. In view of the absence of legislation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that it would be appropriate to regulate student nutrition subsidies in accordance with the law. This will provide a long-term solution for the annual allocation of funds. The law summarises the current arrangements for subsidisation of student diets, and therefore the new regime must not constitute a greater financial burden on the budget than has been the case with the student diet subsidy system so far. The government proposes that a solution be taken up, for which funds are already provided in the 2002 and 2003 budget. The Government is of the opinion that the proposed law on subsidising student diet should be further finalized and aligned with the applicable rules and therefore makes comments to the law itself. The Government makes comments on Article 2 of the Act. The second paragraph of this Article provides for the performance of individual tasks in subsidising student diets with the power of self-administrative organisational form of student organisation of Slovenia. Under Article 1 of the Law on the Community of Students, the self-governance status is directly linked to the student organisation of Slovenia as a whole and the individual organisational forms of this community are not subject to legal personality. We believe that only the Student Organisation of Slovenia can be authorised to carry out individual tasks. Only representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia may participate in the invitation to tender referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. Article 3: The first paragraph of the third article of the proposed law deals with the implementation of the subsidised diet. In 2001, the student organisation moved on to the principle of line code. Since the system of student cards is generally in place in the world, the government estimates that the law does not make sense to define how specific a solution is to be determined, but rather that the law must oblige the contractor to ensure transparency, efficiency and control in granting subsidies. It is necessary to emphasise that a pre-existing, even legally defined definition of the technical performance of subsidisation may constitute a serious obstacle to the introduction of universal solutions with an identification card. The Government therefore proposes that the provision of Article 3 of the proposed law be amended accordingly. The third paragraph provides that the Minister responsible for the work, with the consent of the student organisation, shall issue a instruction setting out in more detail the way in which the subsidy is processed and paid. We do not believe that the consent of the Student Organisation of Slovenia referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article is necessary, since it is an exercise in the function of the State. Article 4 provides that the amount of the student meal subsidy shall be the percentage of the worker’s meal during the work defined by the collective agreement. In Article 4, the proposer shall introduce solutions requiring additional financial resources. Similar arrangements have already been established in the past and in some periods and have not been successful and effective. Therefore, we propose to summarise the regulation contained in the current Food Subsidy Regulation and to set the same amount as it is now in force. And the comment to Article 5: The proposal provided that the resources to cover the costs of subsidising student diet are provided by the Ministry at the level of actual costs. The Government considers that such cost-covering arrangements are not appropriate and is therefore not acceptable and proposes that funds to cover the costs of implementing student diet be provided by the Ministry on the basis of the contract referred to in Article 2 of this Law, which is the amount of mutually agreed or recognised costs. In other words, the government has concluded that it is necessary to regulate student diet subsidies in a legal manner and therefore gives a positive opinion on the proposed law. The law summarises the current food subsidy arrangements and therefore the new regime must not present greater financial burdens than it has been in the system so far, and should be supplemented by articles or amendments to articles as submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Roman Jakič, LDS, mag. Andrej Vizjak, SDS, Štemberger Igor, SMS. Please, Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u158	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! Of course, it is a particular pleasure to defend the proposal for a law on student nutrition subsidies, which, as the applicant mentioned, really came to life in 1992. If we can be concrete, I say that the then LDS predecessor, the ZSMS, was a proponent or, together with colleagues in the Joint Labour Council. The subsidisation of student diet, which has so far been well regulated by the regulation, is in fact necessary to formalise and write it as a law. As there will then be no further concerns under this law regarding the selection of subsidised student nutrition providers, which should be based on a public invitation to tender to be published by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This law would also state who should be empowered to carry out individual tasks or which student organisation. This law will also regulate the situation that all students with student status who are educated in higher and higher vocational schools in the Republic of Slovenia, including graduates and undergraduate students who are not employed or registered in the unemployment register of the Employment Service. Student nutrition subsidies are in fact legally necessary to be regulated at the level, at the level that puts this law in essentially the rights arising from student status in the long term. Once again, I am pleased that this system has proved to be effective, not only effective, but almost no student or student in Slovenia who would not take advantage of this right. And I believe that this was and will be in the future, now of course as a legal form, the social adjuster, who will equally allow for better conditions for all to study, in addition to the scholarship policy, the policy of building student capacities or co-financing differences in the employment of student rooms in individuals, and the establishment of a third university, which will in some ways reduce or financially facilitate studies for those coming from the coastal region of I believe that this law on subsidising student nutrition is the right and right correctioner or mechanism that will enable the Slovenian student population to study better. The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia will, of course, be pleased to support this law on student nutrition subsidies. It will also support the views of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons and Secretariats, as well as the comments made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable colleague and colleague, Honourable Representative of the Government! In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we support the proposal of the law, we are also among the signatories, and we will be happy to support this law. Of course, in the parliamentary procedure it may be necessary to make it somewhat more clear, or in particular to make it clearer. We fully agree that this acquired right, which has been in force for several years, if not decades, has to be put into law and thus placed among the rights deriving from student status. That is why we also support that this matter, which has been regulated by the regulation so far, is suspended and thus acquired the status of this one, that it is no longer possible to do so - that the government can no longer change it, that any financial situation can be adapted to any financial situation and that this important right of students is prevented from being passed on by a government policy in view of the budgetary resources available. It is worth noting, however, that this is a new legal obligation and thus an increase in the fixed part of the budget in the future. In particular, we support the bill in this sense, because the subsidised diet represents an important and appropriate way of raising and setting conditions for studies, in particular students coming from the Slovenian countryside, because, due to the remoteness of the place, studies from their homes cannot be fed at home and are therefore wholly or substantially linked to the student diet and thus to this law or to this bill. Above all, I would point out that students are, as a rule, in cash distress and thus, insofar as this system is not established, this could also affect the poorer nutrition of students and also the negative consequences of this. Therefore, we believe that this text is a suitable basis for further discussion, for second reading, and of course we will support it. I would stress, however, that the law must ensure transparent and effective subsidisation and, of course, also prevent the abuse of this right of students. In particular, in the sense that food subsidies will really only be intended for students. And of course also in terms of justice, which comes from this status as such. We will therefore support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you. Member Štemberger Igor, SMS, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, of course, we support the legal arrangements for subsidisation of student nutrition, as the subsidisation of student diet in recent years has proved to be extremely useful for students, as they are also provided with a more healthy diet in addition to the social component than they could otherwise afford. However, since the law was introduced into the legislative procedure in February 2001 and in the meantime the regulation on subsidising student diet has changed, we propose that the text of the law be slightly changed in the second reading. In addition to the applicants and the government, representatives of the two student organisations most familiar with this area should also be included in the preparation of the amendments. We see the justification of the law mainly in the fact that so far this area has been governed by a regulation on student nutrition subsidies for 9 years. During this time, it has changed several times, almost every year. The student diet subsidy scheme has proven effective over the years. This instrument to raise the standard of study deserves permanent legal system regulation. This is certainly the law that we have before us today and certainly not just one chapter in the unemployment insurance law, as proposed by government representatives on the committee. By raising the regulation of this area to the level of law, we get the legal basis for drawing from the state budget resources without the annual amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget. In short, in the Party of Young Slovenia we support the law and we believe that it is a suitable basis for a second treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Janez Drobnič on behalf of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u164	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! We will support this law in New Slovenia to regulate this substance with the law. First of all, because in this country the rules apply nothing, because ministers and governments change them every day after the open debate of the past we even have the opportunity not to even implement the law. The Minister declares that we will work by law, pay money if the money is in the budget. These are some new customs in Slovenian legislation and Slovenian law enforcement practices. I wonder if this government will continue to do so. Will this be enough to place the substance in the law in the marriage? In New Slovenia we agree that this area should be regulated in one law. Not just food, but scholarships, transportation, perhaps even specific professional rehabilitation. What's been going on with the student diet lately, in recent months, requires a thorough investigation. They're long species, even fake vouchers. I doubt if the law will change that. For practice, something else needs to be changed. Obviously, the executive and the contractors who are called upon to act with dignity for the benefit of the student population do not do so. The proposal for a law submitted by a fellow Member will need to be supplemented by an improvement in the text. In this effort to help students, of course we are certainly among them. Once again, I emphasize, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u165	Come on, please, peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u166	The implementation of this law is also linked. [[...]] However, the will will will also be demonstrated in the setting or submission of the plan or state budget. So we don't run out of money like that, and we'll be back on the same page. Nor will the marriage text then solve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you. Danica Simšič, United List of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please. Members would like to ask that they really calm down because they are forming some groups and they are discussing it as if it were a special forum, not a national assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We welcome and support the proposed law on student nutrition subsidies in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. In our parliamentary group, we are actually pleased with this law because it means the legalisation of good, almost ten-year practice. It is true that not one year has happened that the agreement entered into in 1992 would not have been valid in the future. To be very honest, it is difficult for me to imagine any government, that, the previous one, the previous one, and all the futures that would break this good practice in caring for student diet for any reason. The consequences would probably be more than clear or obvious. However, it is important to have a legal basis for ensuring this type of safety and this also means significantly better, at least in the perspective, including the health status of the young generation and the continuing employment of people in Slovenia. I would like to mention that some corrections are likely to be made, as proposed by the home labour force and the government and the secretariat for legislation. This will also be done in the next debate in the Joint List Group. At the same time as the co-proposer, as well as some other fellow Members and Members of Parliament, we will do our utmost to ensure that the dictatorship is as clear, clear as possible, and that this chapter will in fact be concluded forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you. The text is by Stanislav Brenčič, Slovenian People's Party+SKD. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in our parliamentary group, it is the Slovenian People's Party's SLS+SKD that fully supports the purpose of the law to stabilise or better put student nutrition subsidies into the system of independence from the current state in a certain government structure or from the moment of preparation of state budgets, when it is necessary to raise as much money as the budget is supposed to show in expenditure. In fact, however, we are more inclined to regulate this matter legally in just one form of roof law that regulates a number of areas, several materials that need to be regulated by law regarding students. And I can say that we have not looked indifferently at the fact that the government has been somewhat slow in relation to this law. On the one hand, we are more inclined to arrange this in the employment and insurance law. As it has to be taken into account, the subject of student nutrition subsidies is no less attractive than students or even more. And these matters should eventually be dealt with in one common law. The legal matter is intended to oblige the budget preparer to place in the budget every year what the law tells him to do. By expecting the government to actually speed up the law, including for other reasons, on employment and insurance, and to include it with a more substantive purpose than this law itself, given that it felt from the presentation of the Secretary of State for this area that the Government had a serious intention to regulate this matter in its entirety. I must also welcome that this is the whole purpose we would like to hear on the committee; it is good that we have heard it here. And in this case, it is possible to talk to the proposer in any case, because in this case matter would be resolved much faster. Because we expect the Employment and Insurance Act to have a different procedure from the regular one, and so on in a more timely manner, perhaps because of the purpose that the applicants want to achieve in this law, they will also resolve this whole matter. In any case, we will support the law because it is better to have what we currently have than something that may be too distant for such or other reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. There are no other panellists. That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Oh, I'm sorry, Private Cheligoy, DeSus.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. In the DeSUS Group, we will also support this law for many reasons, including due to the orderly, regular and healthier diet of our youth, as this has been confirmed by practice so far. We agree that the law may still have to be finalized. I warn you, let's say, some kind of segment that we wouldn't be right to overlook, that young people would receive vouchers, so they also had the right to the weekends when the students were in town because of their study obligations. We also understand the law as a provision for an important segment in reducing study costs. Similarly, we are waiting in other areas, in terms of balancing the costs of young people from the entire Slovenian area. I am thinking of young people from rural areas whose transport costs in the places of study, boarding fees, additional clothing costs and others significantly increase the cost of study. As we say, our parliamentary group will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Nobody signed up for writing, so I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions of the parent working body. First of all, I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal for a law on subsidising student diet, the first consideration, is a suitable basis for drafting a bill for second reading." Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 49 Members and Members, 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a debate on the position prepared by the parent working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're voting again. There are 50 Members and Members present. For 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a decision to suspend the validity of the decision on reimbursement of costs and awards to the judges of the jurors. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? Thank you. He doesn't want to. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur of the Commission to present the opinion of the Commission on the motion for a decree. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I'm limiting the debate to five minutes because no one signed up in writing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the termination of the decision on reimbursement of costs and awards to judges in full. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 for, versus 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the Minister. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! As has already been said, materials for certain agenda items are not yet ready. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - defending the bill on the ratification of the treaty on the right of the mark. Please prepare material for point 10. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Ratification of the trademark contract. Wait a minute. They're coming. I have a signal they don't want to. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[They don't want it.]] Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We are still voting on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 56 Members of Parliament and 53 Members present, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in Education, Culture and Science between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[They don't want it.]] Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting, please. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the concentration seems to be failing. We're voting again. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 51, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We are still voting on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Cooperation in Culture, Education and Science. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[They don't want a word.]] Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Please, please, please, please, please, The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[They don't want it.]] Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal in its entirety. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting, please. 53 Members and Members are present. For 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It sounds like some music and the concentration has fallen. We're voting again. I'm asking for proper concentration. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. For 44, against no one. [[The vote was 4.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and capital taxes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on the initiation of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting, please. 57 Members and Members present. For 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 57 Members and Members present. 55 for, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement establishing an international organisation for a third and a wine with a summary list. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present. For 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. 52 Members and Members present. For 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Act on the Ratification of Appendix 1 in relation to the Guarantee Treaty, signed on 10/12. IN NOVEMBER 1998 BETWEEN THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (PART 1). IN NOVEMBER 1999 THE DEVELOPING BANK OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE) AND THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He does.]] Jelko Kacin, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! Today we have done quite a few ratifications, but I would like to remind you that you can also devote some time to individual reports. In some reports, there's an appendix that says, and now I'm going to read it: "The Committee took into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which warned that instead of signing the signatories to the agreement in the text, which was supposed to be in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the ratification bill, the original of the agreement, there were only type names and surnames of the signatories to the agreement followed by the 'S' code." Since it is not the original of the agreement or its photocopy, the credibility of the text thus transmitted for ratification in the National Assembly itself cannot be verified and therefore the applicant takes full responsibility in this matter." I would like to remind you that we now receive all things by email, in short, we can no longer follow what is actually written in the text, and that is why this supplement is also in all these reports. As long as the government makes us happy with the electronic version of the text, the Foreign Policy Committee will also give this supplement to the proposal for a decision. But whenever we get the original material, it won't, and it'll be the conclusions we've come up with. I don't want to delete the government, I just want to remind you that e-commerce also brings some news that we didn't realize before, and that it's also normal to point out this and this kind of business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 49, against one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. Concentrations, apparently, are not. Let's vote again. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 16th A Dot of the Day - Defence Bill on Ratification of the Roman Statute of the International Criminal Court. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Yes, please, please, Mr. Bekesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u176	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We usually don't talk about ratifications, but at this point it's such an important question that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u177	One moment, please. I ask Members of Parliament and Members to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u178	Allow me to draw his attention in a few sentences. [[...]] Before starting a brief explanation, I would like to express my thanks on behalf of the Government to all of you for allowing this important international law, which, I hope, in the hope of ratifying today, Slovenia is included in the first round of the most civilized countries, to be dealt with quickly. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court is an absolute novelty in the legal sector, which we appoint under new international criminal law. It is the result of the efforts made since World War I, the Paradise Society of Nations through the postwar Nuremberg Court, which has set new standards for the assessment of war crimes, through the efforts of the United Nations, first with the "ad hoc" authorities, that we have the most well-known court for the trial of war crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia, to decide to form a permanent international court that will prosecute perpetrators of the most serious crimes against humanity and similar fundamental values of human society at the beginning of the 21st century. Slovenia has actively participated in the formation of this Statute, so it has also incorporated our professional contribution, soon after the conclusion of the Conference, the Rome on which it originated, signed and today decided to ratify. With regard to the content itself, I would like to draw attention to an important difference - although there are more of these differences - which distinguishes this statute and the powers of this court from those of the so-called "ad hoc" courts for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. In these courts, their competence is primary. So there's no alternative. However, in the case of an international criminal court, jurisdiction is divided. The primary responsibility is for the benefit of the internal courts of the Member States. Only if the legal order in a given country breaks down or is initiated to the extent that the prosecution of the acts provided for in this Statute is not possible shall it come in place, with a foreign reference to the jurisdiction of that court. An important constitutional decision was also involved. The question is whether it is important to amend the Constitution in order to ratify this Statute. I can tell you that it gives a unified view of the legal profession, both constitutional law, criminal law and international law of the highest authority in this area, that such coordination is not necessary. The Institute of Surrender due to these and other differences, given the late hour, would not tire you if anyone wanted, can explain later, is not the same, is an essentially different category from the institution of extradition, which means extradition to another country, is said to be a competitive operator of sovereignty, sovereignty. This court, however, is essentially an instrument, which calls for an extended deadline for each state and founder to achieve those objectives that have led us to participate in its design and throughout all stages of the process of adopting it into our domestic law. Ratification is a final act. This will make Slovenia one of the first 50 signatories or ratifyors. According to our data, 47 countries have ratified this agreement so far, so Slovenia will be 48. 60, however, is necessary for it to enter into force. In the United Nations, it is expected that in two to three months, the moment will come when it will be possible to establish and activate this court. Of course, I hope that Slovenia has already built such a solid democracy that we will not really need it. It is, however, a safeguard for order and respect for minimum standards of law and humanity and is also necessary for us as a member of the international community. Thank you very much for your attention and again thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote, please. There are 57 Members and Members, for 55, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Ministry. We're moving to 17. It's the third draft of the Amnesty Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I would like to ask all representatives of the parliamentary groups to sign up to raise their hand, because it is a little awkward to follow. Mrs. Majda Zupan, New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear government representatives, well-respected council. The proposal for an amnesty law is being considered for the first time in Slovenia alone and was intended as a gesture by the State at the 10th anniversary of the existence of the Republic of Slovenia. This event is now a bit far away, but the proposal can nevertheless be defined as an act allowing the State to pardon a certain number of persons and certain types of crimes. Although the number of prisoners is increasing, in 1994 to 1997, only about 500 people were imprisoned, and now there are about 1,200. Criminal policy has risen and is approaching the standard in Europe, but some of the crimes are emerging, dangerous and new. Here I am referring to drug crimes, border-entry criminal associations, sexual violence, certain kinds of fraud, gold-qualified forms, because they are high damages and high amounts. The inmate initiatives we've been given are heading towards general amnesty. However, it is for the sake of legal certainty and the increase in some of the crimes I have mentioned that cannot be taken into account. In doing so, it is not insignificant that we have prisoners who work, have health insurance and work hours, which is unique in Europe. The practice of most European countries is to reduce the penalty for certain groups of convicts. The average prison sentence is over 2 years, but for some of the crimes that are on the rise, it will probably be necessary to re-examine the amount of the penalty and there are some proposals in this direction. It is also worth noting that prison capacity is too busy. Although a new prison is being built in Cyprus, the situation in some prisons is inadequate. However, it is our duty to ensure that convicted persons are treated with human dignity and dignity — everyone who has been deprived of his liberty. We are pleased that the applicant has taken note of the comments made in the previous discussions and has also extended the scope of crimes not subject to amnesty. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal. We hope that our country is sufficiently stable and that it can afford to pardon a certain number of people without suffering the legal security of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you. Does any other representative of the delegation want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. No one signed in. I'm limiting the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will lead the debate on the basis of the material we received in the report on the proposal for an amnesty law for the Internal Policy Committee as a parent labour body. The amendment is to Article 2 – one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting, please. 48 Members and Members present. For 47, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendment violates the mutually compatible provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members, 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on special conditions for the registration of ownership rights in individual parts of a building in the land book. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members, but I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. Only one amendment to Article 1 has been tabled and the law has, as you know, two articles. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. It's an amendment to the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and is therefore a full article. I'm putting Article 2 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on Article 2, please. 52 Members and Members present, 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Let's vote please! There are 53 Members and Members present. For 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendment to Article 1 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. There's no notice. But I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Let's vote on the whole law! 49 Members and Members are present. For 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 26. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. You have received the proposals of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the Council of Justice and the proposals and opinions of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider four proposals by the Judicial Council for election in judicial office, a proposal by the Election, Appointment and Administrative Commission to amend the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the responsibility of the responsible persons and holders of public powers with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage to the system of the Slovenian electricity industry and, thirdly, a proposal by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to appoint a Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the Supreme Court of Justice at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the District Court of the District Court of Domžal and two District Judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. There is no representative of the Judicial Council. The proposals were addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and proposals for resolutions. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I propose that we discuss all the proposals of the Judicial Council together. [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one signed in. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Miran Blah to the judicial office of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 42, for 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mrs Barbara Rotar as a judge of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 38, for 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Nevenka Ferencek to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 40, for 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Zlata Šmid-Ipavec to the judicial office of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting, please. Excuse me? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u182	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of Members, I request a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-22-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u183	As the meeting will expire by that time, of course we will suspend the meeting and the parliamentary group will be given a 15-minute break and more rest. Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the 10th meeting of the choir. You will be informed of the date of the meeting by agreement of the head of the assembly with the heads of the parliamentary groups later. The assembly will not meet tomorrow because the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will consider proposals for the 2002 and 2003 state budgets at its meeting. On Tuesday, 27 November 2001, at 2 p.m., the assembly will start with an extraordinary budget meeting. At the same time, I would like to invite you to the lobby in front of the large hall of the choir, where, after the meeting, I am sorry, I will fix you at 6 p.m., where after the meeting will be ready for the Susava evening. Thank you for your cooperation, good night and good-bye!
