ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-06-SDZ3-Izredna-05.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite them to come to the hall. We will start with the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following colleagues: Dr. Slavko Gaber, Mr. Anton Delak, Mr. Franz Pukšič, Mr. Feri Horvat, Mr. Bogdan Barovic, Mr. Igor Štemberger, Mr. Ivan Bozič, Mrs. Danica Simšič, Mr. Janko Weber, Mr. Samo Bevk, Mrs. Maria Possonec, Dr. Michael Brejc and Mr. Janez Kramberger. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! I find there are 60 colleagues and colleagues present. That's how the National Assembly is concluded and it can decide. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, Minister of Finance Mag. Anton Ropa and other members and members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference on 2 March this year. One item is proposed for today's extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, namely the presentation of the 2001 budget memorandum and the 2001 budget submission of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll talk about withdrawals first. I didn't get any withdrawals. We'll decide on the extensions. I also did not receive any proposals for enlargement. We will therefore decide on the draft agenda as you have received by reference. We're voting. There are 69 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The draft agenda was adopted by 64 Members and one opposed it. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. We move on to the 2001 BUDGET OF THE 2001 MEMORANDUM AND THE 2001 BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. This is an introductory act of addressing and adopting the State budget in the National Assembly. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 216 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance shall present a budgetary memorandum and a draft state budget. There is no debate after this presentation today. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovska, to present the budget memorandum and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-06-SDZ3-Izredna-05.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! You have before you the 2001 budget memorandum and the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. They come to the National Assembly later this year as they would like. The reason is well known: the 2000 elections, the election of a new government only in early December. Today, or in these days, we are about hundreds of days behind this government's operations, and it is right that we are now considering the state budget and that we will try to reduce together the delays that have arisen from objective causes, because the government had to prepare the budget completely again, in new circumstances. I am pleased that the National Assembly has adopted amendments to its Rules of Procedure, thus allowing the debate to be rationalised and the deadlines for the adoption of the State budget reduced. The preparation of the 2001 budget was more difficult than usual not only because of time constraints but also because of the serious financial constraints faced by the government during this period. This is mainly the backlog of last year's payments which the government has not been able to recover under the current budget for 2000 due to a short period of time. These are already agreements on wage increases and on the realisation of new employment, as well as on the increase in expenditure on interest payments and the capital of government debt. We immediately responded to these problems through a revised way of coordinating pensions, which are no longer dependent on possible short-term wage increases, and a revised agreement on wage coordination in the public sector, which no longer includes automatic inflation adjustment. The budget is calculated at a total public income of 42.9 per cent of the social product. I estimate that this is the appropriate share of public consumption in the country's social product. The average of the European Union is 46.3 per cent when we talk about revenue and 46.1 per cent when we talk about expenditure. Thus, average public consumption in the European Union is a few percent higher than in Slovenia. During the previous period, we gradually managed to reduce the share of public consumption in the social product over a longer period. We have taken this as a goal that we have gradually achieved. Today, I estimate that the share of public consumption of between 42% and 43% of the social product is a balanced goal, which Slovenia should also strive for in future years in a given situation. I estimate that a substantial reduction in public financial spending from this percentage down, i.e. an even more rationalisation of public financial spending, could, on the one hand, be a useful recovery of the economy, but on the other hand it is likely to cause difficulties in financing different activities, possibly also the breakdown of social balance and, on the other hand, the impact on economic growth. We note that in the world, and above all in Europe, in the European Union, there is some approximation of two fundamentally different concepts so far. One is the so-called "welfare" state, a state of prosperity where countries devote even more than 50 per cent of the social budget to public consumption or, on the other hand, to Anglo-Saxon models where public consumption shares in a social product are lower, even lower than 40 per cent. However, in recent times they have been increased, for example in the United Kingdom, where they find that they are increasingly having difficulties in ensuring an adequate level, such as health care, education or some other public activity. In particular, in Europe, different models are being converted to some common balanced share of public consumption in a social product, which, of course, still varies from country to country according to its specificities. Our goal has been as balanced as possible over all the years, so that negative social implications do not arise, nor do some of our public needs and activities become chronically fed, and then there may be major problems, as has been the collapse of individual activities in some countries, including the European Union countries. The second objective that we had in setting up the budget and public finances in the following year was to provide as little deficit as possible, both budgetary and public finances. Under the circumstances, we have estimated that it would be unrealistic to start off on zero deficits or on a full balance of public finances, and we have set ourselves as a target about 1% of the social product of the deficit in public finances and around the budget. Our objective, however, remains to gradually reduce this deficit or to fully balance the budget and public finances, i.e. without a deficit. However, we must say that more or less of all Western countries have been financing their development over a long period of time with budgetary and public financial deficits and have only recently begun to reduce and correct their public financial deficits in recent years, once they have reached a certain level of development, covered infrastructure and other needs and then started to establish some long-term stability of public finances; but usually at a rather high level of public debt, much higher than the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia today. The question, of course, can rightly be asked whether it is appropriate at this stage of development to have, as a goal, fully balanced public finances, without a deficit that can be channelled through development, also to finance the most necessary infrastructure and public activities. We estimate that this as a mid-term objective is fully justified and appropriate, that is to say, the tendency to have a balanced budget, because we are nevertheless a relatively small country, which nevertheless does not want to take too much risk in public finances, wants to maintain its fiscal stability. However, we estimate that in these few years 1% of the public financial deficit is not problematic; of course, if we target it properly to finance real activities, real needs. And given some occasional comments and criticisms, I can still claim and find that Slovenian public finances are in good condition comparable to other countries in very good condition. This confirms the constantly high credit rating of Slovenia, which has not been reduced in recent years, but has even improved. Indeed, the objective of the 1 % deficit in this year's budget proposal will be achieved by means of the extraordinary revenue generated by concessions for the UNTS, a third-generation mobile phone. However, we have only included in the draft budget a small part of the projected revenue from the tender for concession. With them we will cover only the commitments transferred from last year, some 22 billion, which also represent some extraordinary revenue, because the government, which has only begun to operate at the end of the year, could not cover the current budget. So that the actual deficit of the budget and public finances for 2001 will remain about one percent, i.e. 0.98 per cent is a government deficit and 1.08 per cent a budget deficit. The deficit will be even lower when the concessions are more severe. However, we anticipate that these funds will be divided into two years, including the second year, and we will try these funds, if the call for concessions is successful, to make the most of the necessary use not for the current need, but for the reduction of the deficit and for the financing of some of the proposed needs that the National Assembly will eventually decide on. Dear Members and Members! Economic developments are expected to be beneficial this year, in 2001. Even in 2001, the contribution of exports to growth will be the most important, although the situation in the international environment is expected to be slightly less favourable than last year. At the same time, we are counting on a more important contribution from domestic demand than in 2000. Taking into account the estimated wage and employment growth, real growth in personal consumption will be higher than in 2000, but will still be far behind the projected growth of the social gross product. The growth of investments in fixed assets will continue to pool, remain at about the same level as last year, and the real growth of government spending will move around at the level of real gross domestic product growth. Although at the end of last year we recorded the seasonal moderation of industrial production, taking into account the various factors, circumstances and forecasts for 2001 we are forecasting well, this is 4 and a half percent economic growth. With such economic growth, we will continue the favourable development trends of the last eight years, with the social product on average increasing by 4.2 per cent annually, almost twice as much as the European Union has achieved at that time or twice as much as the European Union has achieved at that time. The main objective of our wage policy in all these years has been to maintain real wage growth for productivity growth. This goal was also achieved in 2000, when the real gross wage growth per employee averaged 1.6 per cent. It is very important, very convenient that in the last four years we have increased the average wage per employee by 2.2 per cent annually, realistically. However, productivity increased by 4.1 percent per year. So we have achieved that optimum goal as wages rise, so the standard rises, and at the same time it also increases productivity, and this is more than wages, which is why the common social product also increases - and this is at a favourable rate. In doing so, I can see that we have highlighted and maintained a fairly successful system of bargaining between the social partners in Slovenia during this period. These results show this, that's what they confirm. From this we see in our positive experience that sound dialogue between the social partners - and in this case especially important unions - can form the basis for balanced development. And in the end, the economy grows as much as the wages. This is what we are trying to do, and I hope that we will succeed in dialogue with the social partners in the future. This, of course, means: no excessive deviations or pressures that could endanger economic growth, while of course maintaining such growth, which then also provides satisfactory wages and satisfactory standards for our citizens. With high economic growth and the implementation of an active employment policy, we have therefore recorded positive developments in employment as well. We've created new jobs. The unemployment registration rate was 12.2 per cent on average last year and fell. Actual unemployment is 7% if we count it according to internationally comparable standards. The number of unemployed is decreasing; an important number of unemployed, under 26 years of age, is continuing to decline, and the average number of first-time job seekers is also decreasing. We estimate that employment growth and the decline in unemployment will continue in 2001 and that the various development plans are aimed at ensuring, creating as many new jobs as possible. Steady and steady wage growth is accompanied by increased savings. This is of national importance. The size of savings in banks was 16% higher at the end of last year than at the end of 1999, with tolar savings already worth 700 billion, including 13 billion tolls of savings under the national housing scheme. With this scheme, the government will also continue to promote new forms of savings and direct them to such important investments as housing investments. More housing, especially for young families, will also be a priority for the coming period. We will try to further develop this housing savings scheme, increase the available scope and, of course, the number of dwellings that we will be able to build on this basis over the coming years. Inflation. Inflation in 2000 was slightly higher than we expected, or a year earlier. It was on average 8.9 per cent in 2000; largely due to external factors, mainly due to rising prices of oil derivatives on the world market, the strengthening of the US dollar and rising inflation in the European Union. Fuel and energy prices rose by around 25% on average and have already contributed around one third of the increase in inflation in last year. Under the assumption of a gradual decline in global oil prices at the end of the winter season and relative strengthening of the euro to the dollar, we estimate that direct external pressures on rising prices of living needs will be significantly lower in 2001 than they were in 2000. We expect inflationary movements to cool down and we will record lower inflation in Slovenia in 2001, expected to be estimated at 7.8 per cent. But I will not be surprised if this rate is lower than this forecast. The lack of a current balance of payments account in recent years has been one of the problems of our macroeconomic balance; or there has been some imbalance or deficit, which obviously has a slightly longer-term character, which is not surprising, a characteristic of many other countries, especially transition countries. Although exports increased faster than imports last year, this deficit was maintained mainly due to the export adverse trade relations that were detrimental to us. We expect 2001 to be more favourable. However, we estimate that in the coming years we can objectively expect a movement of the balance of payments deficit to some level of around 2% and, in fact, a gradual reduction of the deficit to that level and then a lower one. However, it is essential that such a deficit is focused on development and in line with - that it is sustainable, and in Slovenia it is sustainable - but we expect that there will be movements, more favourable movements, in particular a greater influx of foreign assets, foreign investments, which will also have a beneficial impact on this data and, of course, on the overall development of Slovenia. Foreign investment, foreign investment remains one of the open possibilities of the Slovenian economy, I will say. We have not yet taken advantage of this possibility or taken advantage of it to a relatively small extent. We are trying to give in different areas, in different ways to accelerate and increase foreign investment, not only because at this development stage we need more resources, more capital, but also because they bring with them new markets, new technologies and, of course, a greater opportunity to compete successfully in the global economic competition. We are trying to tackle various investment barriers through rationalisation procedures in various areas, allowing businesses, ours and others to have easier access to our market. We have designed, as we call it, a whole counter-birocratic programme with which we will try to simplify the various administrative procedures and obstacles and thus make the country, of course, the state administration on the one hand, simpler and more efficient, on the other hand, I hope, even more friendly to all citizens. This is one of the key objectives, although we are aware that it is not easy, that red tape places ever-new and new obstacles everywhere in the world that need to be avoided, and in particular it does not like to reduce or rationalise itself. However, I think it is an important task, an activity, an activity that we want to increase the flexibility of our economy and take advantage of the initiative of people, citizens, individuals, groups, businesses, and thus give some new development momentum. In the 2001 budget, the government also includes as one of the main objectives a programme of more extensive privatisation of state property. We have proposed a more detailed privatisation programme in various sectors. This is not only about our response to the ever-increasing international comments, not least the European Union, but to a large extent to our own experience - the experience that state ownership is not always effective and does not provide sufficient quality corporate governance under conditions of increasing international competition and globalisation. It is true that we also expect substantial financial resources from the sale of assets, which we will not devote to current consumption, but primarily to reducing public debt and thereby strengthening public financial stability in the long term. In this context, let me also mention the government's determination to speed up the denationalisation procedures that have been going on too long. It is true that the rules are complex, often contradictory, interests very conflicted, administrative capacity is limited, but they are becoming increasingly difficult to explain at home and abroad 10 years after the adoption of the law, why we do not implement the laws that we have adopted ourselves. I am confident that the accelerated completion of denationalisation procedures will have a positive impact on the legal strength of our country, release a range of potentials and strengthen our credibility during the critical period of approximation of membership in the European Union and NATO. To this end, too, the government has allocated more resources this year, more than ever, and we are trying and I hope that we will make a significant move forward. Respected Members and Members, the measurable level of development achieved and institutional reforms carried out confirm that the period of transition and adaptation of the institutional framework to the needs of a competitive market economy is ending in Slovenia. The basic objective of economic policy remains to maintain a high rate of economic growth, which will allow a gradual reduction of the balance of payments deficit and a balance of public finances over the coming years while reducing inflation and unemployment. The fundamental objective of development is not economic growth in itself, but a comprehensive increase in the well-being of the inhabitants and inhabitants of Slovenia. Development must result in a long-term balanced improvement in the economic, social and environmental dimensions of prosperity. The government will therefore strengthen the development of key modern factors through its actions, namely increasing the competitiveness of the economy and the openness of the country and the development of human resources. Internationally comparable values confirm that such guidance is correct and possible. Slovenia reduces the backlog of the most developed countries by most indicators. The gross domestic product of Slovenia per capita, measured by purchasing power, was 64 per cent of the EU average in 1995, according to official data from the European Statistical Office; in 1999 - this is the last available data - already 71 per cent and has exceeded 15,000 dollars per capita. With this, Slovenia has already overtaken a member of the European Union, Greece, and has fully approached Portugal. These countries, including Ireland and Spain, have been able to achieve relatively favourable development in recent years, relatively good development rates, once they have become members of the European Union, by making great use of the European Union funds. Slovenia has achieved this development and the reduction of the difference to the average of the European Union with its own resources; therefore, before we can benefit from the various funds - structural or regional, or other - that are available in the European Union to less developed members, such as those I have mentioned. The data also show that Slovenia is more developed socially and environmentally than economically in comparison. According to the Human Development Index, used as a measure of development by the United Nations, which also takes into account the health and education of the population, Slovenia ranked 28th among 174 countries at the latest internationally comparable data in 1998. The health index compares us to 33rd and the education index to 21st place in the world. On the other hand, data on poverty also show that it has declined in recent years. The rate of relative poverty is lower in Slovenia not only than in all transition countries, but also than many members of the European Union. Of course, we can only be partially satisfied with this, because our task will be to eradicate poverty as long as it is present, and we will not be satisfied that we are better than others or better than European or any other average. It is right, however, that we are aware of international world realities and that we know how to understand and take responsibility for the fact that our country, because of its economic strength and political security, can today be a promised land for a lot of people who do not have it at home. Therefore, it is a realistic assumption that Slovenia will become increasingly targeted and not only a transit country for immigrants, but also illegal. This issue is increasingly being addressed by the government and has also been given due attention in the budget. Even above the average of the countries of the European Union, we fall under the genuine savings index used by the World Bank as a measure of sustainable development. According to Slovenia, the current economic activity does not threaten the well-being of future generations, as it creates more sources of prosperity than it does to devalue them. So this is some key indicator, which also shows a development perspective. So we create more resources, more potential for the future, than we spend them in our current life. Dear Members and Members! Today, time is faster, the world is smaller than they say; Slovenia may be bigger. Each country is as large as its international and global empowerment and the ability of its citizens and citizens. In this respect, too, this year's budget is development-oriented. It focuses primarily on the content that develops the competitive capacities of individuals and states. The proposed budget figures therefore highlight the area of education - nominal growth of 17.7 per cent, science - nominal growth is 21.4 per cent in terms of implementation 2000, health, where nominal growth is even 36.6 per cent in terms of implementation in 2000, and, of course, the economy where nominal growth is 16 per cent in terms of organisation in 2000. We are looking for an opportunity to make better and more meaningful use of human resources, to define competitive options, technological development and to develop new capacities that will put Slovenia in a high position within the emerging information and service society. At the same time, we will try to reduce and address the current and future problems in the labour market, prevent social exclusion of vulnerable groups, ensure conditions for greater quality of living and creating social cohesion. The numbers already reached are a good basis for such expectations. In the last decade, education has been devoted to important resources, ensuring increased participation in education at all levels and levels, better infrastructure and equipment in educational organisations, building new facilities, informing schools and others. In a population aged between 19 and 29 years, more than 80% of all individuals have completed at least secondary school. In the European Union, the average is 70%, so we are better than the average of the European Union; only four countries in Europe have more than Slovenia; these are Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Germany - according to this indicator. Few finish primary schooling, 98% of us attend high school. In the last decade, the number of students has increased rapidly, the participation of students in further forms of education is approaching 50% of all 19-year-olds in the population. The number of graduates in the postgraduate and postgraduate studies rose from less than 6,000 at the beginning of the decade to more than 11,000 in 2000. So we invested a lot in education in annual budgets; this was an important investment and remains one of our priorities in the future. The entry into the information society, which is also designated by the budget proposal and the new government organisation, stands on a solid basis. There are already over 18,000 different computers in schools, meaning 22 elementary - school students or ten students per computer. All schools have access to the Internet, it is true that only a good third through organized networks. In the context of European comparisons, Slovenia is positive for the spread of personal computers and the openness of the use of new technologies, according to the majority of indicators of information and telecommunications technologies, at least on the average of the European Union. According to recent research, we already have about 600,000 computers in use, almost a third of households already have Internet access. The total number of active monthly internet users is 340,000, more than 170,000 have their own e-mail address. These are important achievements, but we are not with them, and we cannot be satisfied because developments in this area are very fast and we must never get any sleep at any time. With measures to liberalise the telecommunications market, we will achieve price reductions and thus allow greater use of the Internet. The budget provides for means to reduce so-called digital divides, i.e. to implement computer literacy programmes also for those who have remained outside established programmes for these or other reasons, and to continue computer education programmes in general, including older ones. In order to make the Internet more accessible to those who do not yet have it, we are planning to set up information kiosks in public places and some other innovations. A broad understanding of scientific research activities needs effective tools to transfer knowledge, technology and development potentials into economic practice. These will be programmes for young researchers, exchange of students, additional and exceptional scholarships for talented students and students, development of new programmes, training to offer regional agencies and technology parks the potential for decentralised and economically integrated scientific work. The welfare state no longer merely means meeting basic social needs. These are described in the budget proposal as a continuation of the guidelines so far and are linked to the government’s objective of preserving the level of social security achieved. In some cases, it is exceeding, and support for the area and social protection foresees 16.3 per cent of nominal growth in relation to 2000, and the transfer in the pension register of 17.9 per cent nominal growth in relation to 2000 The well-being today is also expected in more difficult instruments in the areas of health, social, environment and others. A significant increase is therefore made in 2001 for balanced and well-thought-out environmental development, which achieves as much as 42.6 per cent of nominal growth in terms of implementation in 2000 and regional development for environmental quality conservation and more coherent balanced development. However, new national strategies, such as the health strategy for food safety and healthy nutrition policy, are already in place, which I refer to as an example of deep and comprehensive care for the development and maintenance of the most important national potentials. It will require strong cross-cutting cooperation, so to speak, by most ministries, and its outcome will be a healthier diet for citizens of Slovenia in all ages. It will cover the entire food chain and require changes in a number of areas: agricultural policy, processing industry, food labelling, fiscal policy. Health is an element of the quality of human capital, so we must develop, strengthen and protect it, not only as a fundamental human right, but also as a support for the development of human potentials. Therefore, in the budget proposal, the items to improve accessibility to health care, to design, adopt and implement national programmes to strengthen and protect health and to strengthen NGOs in this field are to improve and modernise the infrastructure needed to ensure these activities, as well as to carry out the activities necessary for the adoption and implementation of alcohol policy, food policy, to promote physical activity, to strengthen mental health and to prevent suicide and accidents. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens and citizens, we are engaged on a very broad front. In addition to what I've outlined, for example, we build highways, we modernize railways. The question is repeatedly raised as to whether we will support the financing of such priorities. We added some new ones this year. There are few who think that we should slow down the construction of the highway cross if we want satisfactory results in other areas. It is true that we need more capital in Slovenia, with our own funds and credit arrangements, we cannot satisfy our wishes and take advantage of all the options. In infrastructure construction in particular. So far, we have built more than 200 kilometers of highways, which is close to 40 percent, some 300 miles [300 km] ahead of us, more than 150 kilometers [150 km] of which is already under construction, and is still in preparation. However, this will require a very large amount of funding. We are therefore exploring ways to improve funding in such a way as to enable the pace of the construction of the motorway network to be maintained as we have adopted it in the National Assembly. In this year's budget, we have proposed a way of financing that is still catching this forecast pace, and for the following years, we will also have to explore additional options and try to maintain this pace in this way. Agriculture also achieves a high growth index in our budget proposal, a real growth rate close to 17%, so that we can place it among the priorities of this year's budget. In this area and in others, we are very seriously preparing to enter the European Union and, during the preparatory period, we are directing important resources to agriculture as well as elsewhere. The preparations for entry into the European Union as a red thread are drawn through a number of budget lines from different sources. Preparation for the Schengen regime; in particular the construction of the South-East border is a common task of various ministries, internal, financial, environment, transport, an even more comprehensive administrative reform with the establishment of comparable European institutions with education and training. For these purposes, in the budget in various areas, we are channelling important funds, but we are also acquiring European funds, from various headings, which are expected to receive and draw around 12 billion tolars this year. In addition to the European Union, one of the agreed political priorities remains - NATO membership. We need to gradually place the Slovenian army at the level of Nat's standards, again not only because of NATO or the collective security we want to achieve within this defence union, but when we are aware of our own needs, that is, regardless of the potential and desired membership of NATO. The 2001 Defence Budget is therefore making a significant increase, realistically by around 17%. Dear Members and Members! The budget you received for consideration is the most important annual act we are adopting in the country. It is not just how much the state costs us, as many people like to simplify; it is our joint decision on the present and the future, our decision on priorities, how we will direct those resources that we have, what activities, what needs, what goals, how we will live today and tomorrow, what goals and values we will give more emphasis to, how much we will be solidarity and how effective we will be. It is our joint assessment and decision on the right relationship, on the balance of our common life and development. I would like the discussion on the budget to be carried out as qualitatively as possible and the proposal put forward by the government will eventually be adopted, perhaps with some improvements. The government will, of course, try to reach the best possible final solutions with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-06-SDZ3-Izredna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovšek. I'd like to take the floor with the Minister of Finance, mag. Anton Rope. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-06-SDZ3-Izredna-05.ana.u4	Dear Members and honourable Members and Mr President! As the Prime Minister has already said, the budget memorandum and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 are coming to the National Assembly later than we would like, because they were created in special circumstances, after the elections, and therefore very late. Although we started to prepare them immediately in December, we were preparing them under the conditions of Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, which means that we were faced with a situation where the budget resources for 2000 were no longer sufficient for the planned consumption. That is why, of course, we were faced with relatively large liquidity problems and problems, and that is also why the transfer of 22.8 billion Slovenian Tolar liabilities in 2001 amounted to about half of the gross domestic product. We have been preparing it at the same time as the preparation of the provisional financing of the budget for the first three months and at the same time as the implementation of such funding in this year. In addition, for the first time, we have prepared the draft budget together with all the documents and procedures envisaged by the new Public Finance Act and the reform of public finances. This means the transition to the functional programming structure of the budget, the creation of the third part of the budget, this is the development programme plan, and the preparation of all the necessary explanations in a way that ensures an evaluation of the operational value. In order to ensure that the budget is adopted as soon as possible, we have accelerated the adoption process by doing a work that is expected to take place for eight months. Despite all the problems and major time pressures, however, we have been able to draw up our assessment of the draft budget for 2001, which enables and ensures not only the normal functioning of the country in all its functions, but also the budget, which outlines some important priorities for the further development of Slovenia. Undoubtedly, all the priorities outlined by the government and the coalition for the entire mandate have not been fully possible in such a short time for the structural problems of the budget and public finances in this budget, or sufficiently, to be included in the proposal - these are the tasks that await us in the preparation of the following budgets. However, the proposal for this budget is undoubtedly a good basis. Of course, the draft budget itself and the related budgetary discussion and coordination cannot be and is not enough to provide stable public finances, as well as not to provide sufficient resources for those public financial expenditure that enable the fulfilment of the planned government and state, development, economic, social, environmental and other priorities. Therefore, there is a need for continued leadership and coordination in the adoption of all systemic changes, development policies and programmes in the national assembly, in the government, as well as in particular stable economic growth and social development. The budget is not to be adopted and defined only in the budgetary discussion and in its coordination, but in particular when new laws, new national programmes and new collective and other agreements and commitments are adopted, i.e. every time and every time new public financial commitments are made. We are not aware of this, so much less is the right and justifiable transition to medium-term budgetary planning, which we are beginning and will continue and deepen in future budgets through the draft budget in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In accordance with the Public Finance Act, the Government has sent the following documents to the National Assembly for consideration: budget memorandum, draft budget for 2001, balance sheet annexes to the 2001 budget memorandum, explanation of the draft budget for 2001, whose important novelty stems from the new programme functional classification, together with programmes and sub-programmes for the implementation of the functions of the State, the 2001 government sales programme for state and real property, the 2001 report on the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Joint Financial Plans of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, the Health Insurance Institute, public funds, agencies, with explanatory notes that it is important to complement the image of public finances in Slovenia. I would like to briefly present some of the important features of the material presented below. The proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the global public funding balance for 2001 is based on the objectives and orientations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as defined in the budgetary memorandum. This provides that in 2001 there is a need to halt the trend in the rise of the public financial deficit and gradually achieve a fiscal balance over the coming years. We are beginning to achieve these objectives with the draft budget. The gradual restructuring of public finances in the coming years will focus in particular on maintaining the level of public financial revenues at around 43% of gross domestic product. In doing so, it should be stressed that the level of public financial revenues is not something that is defined and invented, as some often try to stress, but is that level of public financial revenue that we consider that Slovenia is fiscally able to pass on, that it is possible to realize, and that level that means that we will not increase the burden of the economy. Increasing efficiency and economics of public financial expenditure is the next task and requirement. This means, of course, that there will be a need to simplify the system of social transfers so as to ensure greater transparency and a greater link to the actual material state of the beneficiaries; that the state aid scheme needs to be regulated and their scale reduced gradually. We have made an important addition to the State aid system in this budget in this draft budget, in particular in the direction required by the relevant State aid law, and in the direction of adapting to the State aid system as provided by the European Union, which, of course, means that Slovenia will be more successful and effective at the time it enters the European Union, in drawing on the resources it will own, of course, on the basis of what it will also contribute to the European Union. The next task is to reform the public administration, which will create incentives for more efficient use of public funds and greater organisational flexibility of public administration, including the transfer of implementation, the financing of part of its functions in the private sphere. Very important, probably one of the most important tasks in the medium term is the system of public sector wage regulation. This is followed by an increase in the efficiency of the healthcare and insurance system; a gradual restructuring of public financial expenditure; a re-examination of the current pre-mandated and uncoordinated legal obligations and national programmes; and a simultaneous increase in expenditure that directly strengthens the competitive capacity of the economy and contributes to the strengthening of human resources. Following such guidelines, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set the following priorities for the financial year 2001. Firstly, the increase in national economic and public financial stability and the acceleration of planned structural reforms; the construction of an open market economy, including the privatisation of banks, insurance companies and certain services; additional investment in knowledge and education as factors for strengthening human resources and the competitiveness of the economy; the strengthening of entrepreneurship, investment in new technologies and the promotion of the development of an information society; the strengthening of the efficiency of public administration; the preservation of the level of social development and environmental quality and more coherent regional development; and, last but not least, the intensification of the integration process into the European Union and NATO. In line with the budgetary memorandum, the draft budget for 2001 also provides sufficient resources to enable relatively normal implementation of programmes to improve the functioning of the state administration, including the launch of a project to establish the so-called "Igaverment" and other projects to increase the efficiency of the state administration. Establishing the conditions for the implementation of the project to develop the management of the healthcare system as a prerequisite for the further enhancement of the effectiveness of healthcare, an extremely important project which will be one of the key in the development of the healthcare system, in particular and also in the context of the relatively increasing financial problems of healthcare. Then normalizing, financing public institutions in culture. This is undoubtedly one of the important tasks ahead of us this year. The continuation of the agricultural reform launched in 2000, the training of the sector institutions, but without increasing unnecessary administrative costs. In short, the implementation of the agricultural reform, which means more resources and additional funds and subsidies for farmers, for those to whom the agricultural reform is intended after all. Effective enforcement of certain administrative matters, such as the replacement of travel documents and so on. Further enhancement of the efficiency of the institutions of the Slovenian judiciary. We have given important priority and attention in this area to informing the Slovenian judiciary and have also allocated the appropriate resources. Such defined priorities and orientations will, of course, be achieved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through a clear combination of short-term macroeconomic policies and structural reforms, by promoting long-term development factors, as well as by an appropriate structure of state budget expenditure this year and the following years. In addition to the budgetary memorandum, key macroeconomic frameworks defined by the Commission on the basis of the autumn report were key to the preparation of the draft State budget proposal for the establishment of financial plans, the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, the Health Insurance Office and the establishment of the Community budget balance frameworks. On this basis, the estimated total public financial revenues of all four public finances amount to 1967 billion sieves, nominally 14 per cent and real 5.7 per cent higher than in 2000. The share of total government revenue in gross domestic product will thus be 42.9 per cent, which is 0.5 percentage points higher than in 2000 and 0.9 percentage points lower than in 1999. The total public expenditure, as proposed by the State budget and the financial plans for other public treasury accounts this year, will amount to EUR 2012 billion and will be nominally 13% and 4,8% higher in real terms than last year. Their share of gross domestic product is expected to reach 43.9 per cent, 0.2 per cent more than last year and 0.5 less than in 1999. This year, the total government deficit will amount to 44.9 billion Slovenian tolars, or 0.98% of gross domestic product, which is 0.4 percentage points less than last year and means a halting of the trend in the rise of the public financial deficit. The draft budget provides for a total volume of revenue of 1.150 billion, nominal for 16 and real for 7.7% more than last year. Such a real increase in budget revenues is due in particular to an increase in non-tax revenues, while the overall tax revenue of the budget will increase by 4.1%, which is slightly lower than the projected growth of gross domestic product, and of course shows that the overall tax burden on citizens and businesses will not increase this year. Budget expenditure will amount to just under 1,200 billion Slovenian tolars this year. This is nominal for 16.7% and real for 8.3 more than last year. The total budget expenditure is expected to reach 26.2 per cent of GDP, which is 1 per cent higher than that achieved last year or the same as foreseen by the 2000 budget. This includes expenditure resulting from the payment of last year's unpaid liabilities amounting to 22.8 billion. If this year's planned expenditure excludes the commitments made last year, nominal annual expenditure growth is comparable to 12.2 and real 4% real growth. This means that this year's purified expenditure is growing slower than the projected growth of gross domestic product. The budget proposal plans a budget deficit of 49.6 billion, which is slightly more than 1%. The most important budgetary resource will also be domestic taxes on goods and services in 2001, with 57.8% of the share in all national budget revenues. Domestic taxes on goods and services are the highest-represented value added tax and excise duty, which total almost 53% of all budget revenues. For 2001, there are fixed rates of value added tax, 19 and 8% respectively, and the estimated amendment of the excise duty law is taken into account in the assessment of excise revenue on tobacco products. The income between direct taxes in terms of financial impact is the largest source of the country's budget and accounts for 16.5% of all revenue, which is slightly lower in 2000 than in the light of the impact of last year's legislation on the exceptional reduction of the tax liability of lower income class taxpayers. The total amount earmarked for 2001 for non-tax revenue amounts to 95.6 billion tolars. Among them, we foresee revenue from the State's participation in the profits of public enterprises and banks amounting to 6 billion tolars, including the projected payments of part of the surplus income over Banka Slovenije's expenditure, which was agreed with Banka Slovenije and also accepted in the world of Banka Slovenije, and interest income of 6.8 billion. Among the revenues from the assets, we also plan revenues from concession fees, from special gambling, 3.3 billion, 7.5 billion revenues from already concluded mobile phone contracts and, by the way, practically fully paid and 22 billion additional revenues from the expected concession fees for a new generation of mobile phones, as already discussed by the Prime Minister. Budget expenditure is for the first time this year, and this is extremely important, designed according to the programme structure, which is reflected in the specific part of the budget - 23 areas of expenditure, 95 main programmes and 290 active programmes. At the same time, the cost structure is shown at the level of the three-digit accounts. If we compare the structure and look at it in terms of expenditure under the programme functional structure, we can see that the structure of the proposed budget is good, that it has a set of components and priorities that undoubtedly have a developmental impact on economic development. Thus, for example, the largest share of budget expenditure in 2001 is 218.5 billion and is intended for education. The largest part of the budget is devoted to education, which represents 18.2 per cent of the budget and 4.8 per cent of the gross domestic product. In the last seven years, we have only dedicated 0.1% of gross domestic product more for education in 1997 than we plan in 2001. After the structural share, the second largest budget expenditure will be transfers for pension protection, representing 15.1 of the State budget for 2001. Let me point out that before 1996, when we reduced the contribution rate and, of course, unloaded the economy, this structural share was only 5 per cent. Thus, it increased from 5 per cent to 15 per cent, and 10 per cent of the other burden that would go to the economy took over the budget and will finance it and will also be financed in the coming years. The next is expenditure on social protection, representing 11.5 per cent. These include the most important expenditure on the protection of children and families. The share of these expenditure, both in gross domestic product and in the national budget, has never been that high, amounting to 7.3 per cent, which is, of course, due to the change in legislation in this area, in particular the increase in child allowances. Of course, it will increase further due to extended maternity leave and additional increases in such expenditure. For science and technological development, after four years of constant participation in the structure of all budgetary expenditure and in the proportion of GDP, the funds increased for the first time. Thus, the structure represents 2.5 per cent of all budget expenditure, in revenue and expenditure accounts, which is extremely important and is new and 7 per cent of all budget expenditure on the financial claims and investments account. An increase in state resources for scientific research is foreseen, while technological development funds are expected to be complemented by reimbursements provided in the financial claims and investments account. Resources for culture, sport and non-governmental organisations remain within the structure of budgetary expenditure at the level of the previous year. For healthcare financed from the State budget, 0.8% of all budget expenditure is proposed, which means an increased share and the maximum amount of funding goes and is intended for investments in hospitals. For the economy, infrastructure and agriculture, a slightly more than 4.2 per cent of gross domestic product or 12 per cent of all budgetary expenditure in the revenue account and 83 per cent of all expenditure in the financial and investment account is proposed, which, of course, indicates the restructuring of state aid and such incentives for development, in particular in the field of the economy. For transport infrastructure, about 1.8% of gross domestic product is proposed. About 0.5% of gross domestic product is provided for ecological programmes, including space management. The security area, which includes internal affairs, defence, civil protection, intelligence services and intervention in the event of natural disasters, is allocated 9.6% of all expenditure in the budget. The share of gross domestic product for these purposes has been the largest in the last five years. When we talk about the economic structure of the expenditure of the state budget, the picture is, of course, worse. It is worse and is worrying and, of course, requires action. In this economic structure, the maximum share of the budget expenditure is intended for salaries and contributions. For these purposes, the proposal provides for a total of 30.5% of the total budget, representing 8% of gross domestic product. This is the largest share of gross domestic product to be paid in the last seven years. Trenospheres for individuals and households and transfers to pension registers amount to 29.7 percent. So these transfers and wages together with interest represent the most fixed part of the budget, which is practically predetermined in advance and represents 66 per cent of the total budget. Thus, the share of the so-called fixed budget in 2001 is among the largest in the last seven years, except in 1997 when it was the same. To this end, the budget structure has a low variable share, which includes subsidies and investment expenditure of 16.8 per cent. Such a structure clearly reflects the fact that an ever-increasing part of the budget is defined through additional, legal, programme and contractual obligations and increasingly less in the budget preparation process. This requires us to plan and coordinate all public expenditure more in the long term, not only in the preparation and adoption of the budget, but in particular when we define and adopt development programmes in specific areas. It stresses, of course, the necessity to continue the reform of public finances. Dear Members and Members! I would like to present briefly some of the features of the three other cash registers, which have always been presented separately in the National Assembly. First of all, it is a projection of income and expenditure in the pension and disability insurance balance, which is based on the same starting points as the budget. The total income of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office is projected at 652 billion tolls in 2001, which is nominal for 13.7 and, in reality, 5.5 percent more than the total revenue of the Institute for 2000. The total income of the pension and disability insurance institution in 2001 will thus reach 14.2% compared to the gross domestic product. On the expenditure side, the following indicators are taken into account in the balance sheet of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. The total number of pensioners is expected to increase by 1.2% this year. Of this, the number of beneficiaries to old-age pensions is expected to increase by 1.8%, the number of beneficiaries of invalidity pensions by 0.3% and the number of recipients of family pensions by 0.5%. The 2001 Financial Plan foresees a reduction in the average number of beneficiaries to rural, military and temporary pensions under existing pension and disability insurance legislation. However, the increase in the number of beneficiaries to old age pensions is estimated by the legal rise in the age line and the increase in the number of beneficiaries to pensions from other countries. The effects of some of the reforms we have implemented in the past are also reflected in this area. Undoubtedly, the increase in the number of pensioners would be significantly higher if we did not reform pension and disability insurance. The total expenditure of the Institute for 2001 is planned at 646 billion tolars and will be nominally around 10% higher compared to the 2000 implementation. Compared to gross domestic product, total expenditure will reach 14.1 per cent this year. The 2001 financial plan for pension and disability insurance provides for a balanced balance sheet of total current income and expenditure in this year. On the basis of a specific decision of the Government, additional funds will be provided to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office in 2001-2004 to cover the repayments of loans paid by the Institute to business banks in 1999-2000 at a total of 23.2 billion. In 2001, additional funds from the pension insurance capital company of 6.3 billion will be provided to the institution. The financial plan for health insurance for 2001 sets out the financial values of revenue and expenditure for the implementation of health and other compulsory health insurance schemes. We also used the same starting points as the other balance sheets when making it. For 2001, the compulsory health insurance balance provides for revenues totalling SIT 302.7 billion, which is nominal for 13 % and real for 5% more than in 2000. Total expenditure from the health treasury is expected to reach 305.8 billion in this year, which is real for 4.9% more than in 2000. The Institute's revenue under the financial plan of the Institute for 2001 will not be sufficient to cover the planned expenditure. In 2001, the Institute planned a deficit of 3.1 billion tolars. However, the Institute will not have to be in charge in 2001 to cover the deficit, but it will cover the deficit by drawing on accounts, so-called the General Fund of the Institute, which it has established in previous years. The forecasts, the macro-fiscal scenario estimates for the period 2001/2004 show that, under the remaining conditions, the gap between income and expenditure will continue to increase over the coming years. This will lead to a reduction in the institution's accounts and consequently a decrease in the general fund of the institution. Therefore, it is essential to take appropriate additional measures in this area in the coming years, because it is only in this way that we can ensure the smooth and stable financing of healthcare, which has been the characteristic of the last years. I mentioned earlier that we have provided specific and additional resources in the budget for a specific project which is supposed to address this particular issue, and I expect, of course, that we will propose and prepare appropriate solutions by the end of this year. On the basis of the preliminary data collected from municipalities, which are expected to be contained in the final accounts of the 2000 budget, a global balance of the budgets of the municipalities is also drawn up for this year. The estimated data show to what extent all three types of municipal balance sheet will grow. The municipality's own income is estimated in the assumption that municipalities will not introduce new revenues in 2001. From the prepared projection for 2001, nominal indices and real growth are shown by type of income and expenditure. All calculations by type of revenue and category of expenditure are prepared and taken into account in the assumptions identified in the 2001 country budget target scenario. The income, with an unaltered 35 per cent share ratio to the good of the budgets of the municipalities, remains the most important source of the municipality's own income. The global budget balance of municipalities also provides for the use of additional resources to be provided to municipalities by increasing the level of appropriate spending per capita. Due to new obligations in the area of pre-school education, the cost of transporting children on dangerous journeys to school, subsidisation of rents and home aid prices, these costs are included in the amount of eligible expenditure of an individual of the municipality and taking into account the price of own income associated with the financial compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! An important component of the material you have received is undoubtedly also the 2001 programme for the sale of state financial and real property. With this programme, the government wants to strongly accelerate the urgent privatisation processes of two state-owned banks and 25 state-owned enterprises already this year. The key reasons for the accelerated privatisation provided by this programme are in the final elimination of the direct involvement of countries, politicians and officials from direct business decision-making processes; greater opportunities for attracting foreign strategic partners into privatisation, recapitalisation and business, organisational and market restructuring processes; attracting additional foreign capital, investment and thus faster development; and, of course, the maximum purchase from privatisation. In particular, the core objectives are more efficient and competitive companies and banks, as well as reducing public debt and thus public service costs. The programme also specifies the methods and procedures for the sale of capital investments in order to ensure the public and transparency of the procedures for the sale of state property. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The 2001 budget memorandum and the draft budget, together with the financial and real estate sales programme and the remaining documentation submitted, represent an important step in the reform of public finances. As has been said and is evident from the materials presented to the National Assembly, our aim is to ensure that they meet the most important priorities that we have set ourselves, as well as the basic objectives of effective and transparent public expenditure management. This is necessary both in order to ensure the further economic, social and environmental development of Slovenia as well as the equal and effective integration of Slovenia into European ties. The first step is the adoption of the 2001 State Budget in the National Assembly. We are counting on if all procedures will normally take place so that it can be adopted no later than May of this year. The Government will therefore, in accordance with the Public Finance Act for the period April-June, adopt an appropriate provisional financing regulation in order to allow for the normal and unhindered functioning of all the functions of the State. This, of course, is what I am telling the National Assembly at this point, as is the government's duty, and we will inform you in particular of this. In the following month, the preparation of the draft budget for the next period will be completed in accordance with the Public Finance Act and the Government Regulation on procedures and bases for the preparation of the national budget proposal. In line with government guidelines, we will draw up a proposal for a two-year state budget, 2002-2003, and thus realize the intention of the highlighted multi-annual budget planning. This is an extremely optimistic plan. There are very few countries in Europe that have succeeded - Britain has succeeded at the time of Tony Blair's new government, and it is quite interesting that this government has managed to reduce the level of public spending with a whole bunch of new programmes and new priorities. In short, an extremely difficult task, but we hope that, given the firm determination of all members of the government and in view of the decision taken, we will ultimately succeed. Of course, you will also have to help us when we arrive at the National Assembly. It is important that, when preparing the following budgets, we also take into account the elements of the economic development strategy prepared by the Government and the national development programme related to the tasks and activities related to the entry into the European Union. The latter, in line with the European Union, will also provide more revenue from the European Union budget than a donation from the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that this prepared budget will further reflect the government's development priorities. Finally, I would like to point out that efforts to manage public expenditure properly do not end - and we all know that - with the adoption of the state budget. For a further period, we must therefore continue with the Public Finance Act of the guidelines and increase the efficiency of public expenditure management. The privatisation of certain public services will have to continue. Taking into account the relevant systemic changes, it will also be necessary to increase the transfer of public services and services to a local level, together with an appropriate transfer of public financial resources. The proper production of this part of the public financial system, and within this financial settlement system, is a major task of the coming period and, of course, a very difficult task, especially if we take into account the elements of regional development. Budgetary control and budgetary discipline are significantly strengthened. The recent adoption of the Law on the Court of Auditors, together with the provisions of the Law on Public Finance, implements trinitro-military supervision: at the level of resources, by budgetary supervision and by external supervisors, the Court of Auditors and parliamentary committees. It will also be necessary to continue the appropriate reform of public administrations as a way of reforming public funding. For this reason, we will pay particular attention to the financial aspects of the Public Service Act, agencies, institutions and the like, as public authorities and public services. All of this will strengthen the efficient use of taxpayers' funds and strengthen public expenditure reform. In doing so, we must not forget that as in other countries, we have made many efforts. Let me mention that in Sweden they are implementing their reform of programme budget planning for a good 7 years. In the United States, the relevant legislation on the effectiveness of the use of public funds has undergone significant changes in the last two mandates. It is only now in the European Union that they are introducing a programme classification for the budget of the European Union. In this context, Slovenian reforms of public finances are not lagging behind the efforts of the most developed market economies. The public financial situation, which is comparatively better than a number of countries in the European Union, also confirms this. The 2001 draft budget, as reflected in today's presentation, is also one of the elements of a multi-annual effort to reform public functions and rationalise the use of public resources. Following the transition of the business and banking sectors, it is now a transition in the performance of the functions of the State. This is what entry into the European Union and the European Monetary Union requires. Only then will Slovenia be able to participate in global global processes in a competitive and effective manner. We have therefore drawn up a proposal for a state budget that enables the creation of an effective country that appreciates and strengthens education, develops human resources and strengthens the competitiveness of the economy, preserves the level of social security and environmental quality achieved and enables more coherent regional development and strengthens integration into the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that such a proposal by the National Assembly, which, by the way, is the tenth draft budget in Slovenia alone, be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-06-SDZ3-Izredna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a procedural proposal. Comrade Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-06-SDZ3-Izredna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected government. Mr President, I would like to explain why, at the time of this year's presentation of the budget, with the exact same direction in the last paragraph of Rule 216 of the Rules of Procedure, including the amended Rules of Procedure, an explanation has been given by the Governor of the National Bank, the Director of the Institute for Health and Pension Insurance and the Director of the Institute for Disability and Pension Insurance. We expected that when television and direct broadcasting were involved, the Slovenian public would have the opportunity to be informed in a balanced manner about the dilemmas of our public finances. But the government seems to have allowed itself a propaganda maneuver. We knew that the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister would plant flowers and cook into the stars of achievements in the financial field. Last year, too, and never before has it been heard that the government will lower pensions than it did. And we haven't heard much today. In recent years, the Governor of the National Bank has been the one who could point to the trap and correctly predict what would happen to public finances. Where is the reason why this year’s explanation in exactly the same direction turned out only to be a propaganda maneuver? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-06-SDZ3-Izredna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much for your question. I owe you an answer. This is governed by Rule 216 of the Rules of Procedure. You are right to say that the dictates of the novel are the same as the previous text of the Rules of Procedure. When we met twice last week, the leadership of the National Assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups to set a time frame for the debate on the draft state budget, we also stopped at the question of whether we would strictly respect the rules of procedure or whether we would follow the tradition. This question has been explicitly asked. The decision to comply with the Rules of Procedure remains the same. You had MEPs and Members, and we had the opportunity when adopting the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, that if we thought it useful to hear another introduction, we could put it into the Rules of Procedure. And we didn't do it. Thus, the Rules of Procedure maintain in Article 216 that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance take part in this agenda item. That's what happened. Therefore, today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft state budget. Members and Members of Parliament, Members' groups and working bodies may submit amendments up to and including Friday, 16 March 2001. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
