ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings: Bogomir Vnučec, Marko Diaci, Victory Jelinčič Plmeniti, Anton Partljič, Janez Kramberger, Franz Kangler, Franc Čebulj until 11.00 a.m., Milan Kopusar for the morning work and Janez Cimperman for the afternoon part of the session. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Did we put the cards in? [[We are.]] So I note that this instant 54 Members and Members are present, and the number will change at any moment. I note that 55 Members and Members are present; the assembly is concluded and may decide. We invited the Minister of Health, Dr. Kebra, to the meeting. Today's follow-up to the 5th meeting of the National Assembly will be initiated by the consideration of the closed 5th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for artificial fertilisation with biomedical assistance. Then we will move on to the third point, this is the proposal of the law on the amendments to the railway law, then to the reading of the 5.b point, this is the proposal of the media law, and in order of order. 5.c point we'll skip and we'll deal with it when it's prepared by its mother's working body. So, as we proceed with yesterday's session, item 5D - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Health of Infertility and Artificial Fertilisation Procedures with Biomedical Aid. We suspended the meeting yesterday in the debate between Members and Members. Following yesterday's list, it is Mr Ivan Mamić and then France Tsukati. Please, Mr. Mamić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! Yesterday we heard pretty good and bad about our future, as I would say. What bothers me most is that there has been more talk of administrative matters than of those who should be concerned about us, that is man. Let's say we've heard very well how it can be done, so the technique of this fertilization. That's what the experts said. That's what they said. That's all right and that's all right. But there was little talk, very little talk about what it means to a person. For we know that this was also emphasized yesterday that it is right to create a person naturally. And a child is supposed to be the fruit of love. So if two young, married, or any other couple love each other, they will also show their love by having a desirable child. If there are health barriers, then it's only right to help them. I fully agree with this and that is also the case. But if we play with nature, what history has already shown, then we get revenge. I know that, and someone mentioned it yesterday. Someone mentioned AIDS and other diseases. What's an ozone hole? It's just a man's liberal attitude that he used the technique the way he thought it was right at that point. He didn't think about the consequences. I think that this way of artificial fertilization is due to what we will accept here, if we will or will accept. I don't think that's right. Let's say I say a translation from one song when the poet said, "I don't recognize any laws written by someone because laws are younger than human civilization and they're not natural laws, so I admit love." If we are talking about love, there is no way we can talk about any artificial fertilization. We also heard, say, yesterday, Mr. Minister said that if there was an abuse, it would concern the opposition. Will it only concern the opposition? That, as a question, can also be a replica, Mr. Minister! So that I won't be long, I would appeal that we put a man in the place he's going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u4	Your Honor! Good morning, everyone! Yesterday we talked a lot about the issue of the proposal. But I must say, we've dealt with very little argument. And that's not right. When we are talking about a third person who is not here and who is not at all, the way of reasoning and the weight of the arguments should prevail in particular. However, if we look at the explanation of the proposal, it is full of formulations that are more than just arguments and would sound purely in a negative political sense. Even when we were speaking and it was pointed out that the proposal was strongly rejected by both the medical profession, the ethical commission, our legal affairs secretariat and the legal profession, no one wondered how we wanted to accept in any way something which, in fact, the known relevant profession opposed. That is why I would like to discuss the arguments. But when we heard some arguments, I can't at least replicate them a little. They talked a lot about the fact that a child born to a single woman is not deprived of anything. Our laws are so sad, so tragic, so full of beatings, drunkenness, and so forth that perhaps even the legislator would change his mind and even ban artificial cultivation in the marriage community. That's how it sounded. For it would be far more ideal in the case of a single parent if we could call it that. I think this argument is somehow groundless and I don't want to hear it anymore. I'm sure it's sad if there's a drink in the family. Yet, just as much as 50 percent of the possibilities are for a single woman to get drunk. In the case of marriage and the extramarital community, in the event of the tragedy of one spouse or partner, there is still 50 percent chance that the other partner will remain sober and offer the child some more protection. Next argument. Look. More than a quarter of families are separated, and children in these families also live. This - forgive - separate families and single mothers, is considered a social problem for us, a social problem and not an ideal situation. And in the law, putting up social problems in advance, I don't think it's worth it. That argument is off. It must be sad if we have a single mother who has become a single mother in some way or another, but in such cases the law also tries to burden either the father or the mother to participate in the upbringing, care, and responsibility of the child. In fact, the whole issue focuses on the issue of rights and competition, women's rights to maternity, single women, and children's rights to parenthood. A very good example is adoption. We ourselves have legislation so laid down that a single woman or a single man cannot adopt a child, because the right of a child to a normal marriage, to normal parenting and family is before the right to motherhood or paternity. The right to maternity or paternity is not an absolute right. Let's be aware of that. In Sweden and France, where a legalized lesbian or homosexual community is prohibited, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - just to complete the sentence - forbidden or not possible adoption of children and also OBMP does not apply in these cases. [[...]] That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. During the debate, the President of the House of Representatives of the Parliament of Ireland, Mr Seamus Pattison, joined us with parliamentarians, whom I very much welcome on our common behalf! [[Let's hear it.]] Now let's move on to the point. Mr Igor Štemberger is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. The basic idea of marriage, helping infertile couples get to the desired child, I think it's okay and in place. However, if the effects of the law are not good, if they are bad and the state commission is to blame, then I see a solution to address these shortcomings in the amendments to the said Commission and not in extending the range of beneficiaries to unproductive single women and even fertile single women who have some reservations about sexual relations. This will make the basic idea of marriage completely depraved and will result in a healthy treatment law. The law extends the range of beneficiaries. Thus, according to the new procedures, all infertile couples, as they have been before, will be entitled: married and extramarital, unproductive single women, and even fertile single women. In short, all women and only those men who are infertile and at the same time live in a marital or extramarital relationship. In this respect, marriage to men is discriminatory. In particular because this law was primarily intended to treat infertility in men in pairs, for in most cases it was men who were infertile. The law also discriminates against children whose father will be "a hospital". These children are allowed to have a father in advance only because of the wishes of some single women. Each individual has the right to his own judgment as to what way of life he or she will choose. I don't object to anyone choosing a marriage, an extramarital life, if he chooses to be an same-sex partner, or if he chooses to be married. I respect each individual's decision, but I think that a former individual had to bear at least so much responsibility that by choosing a way of life he also accepts all the consequences of the chosen way of life. Living with an same - sex partner or a single life of children, says offspring, certainly does not bring.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you. Who wants another word? Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Somehow I felt the need to add some more things, even though I already did yesterday. I have made a lot of arguments, arguments against the adoption of the law. If we look at all these arguments, then we see that this law is not supported by professional arguments. In that case, I would also refer to the Minister. Mr. Secretary! If this law is passed, it will be only and only because of political domination. Because the profession unanimously said no. Both medical and legal professions, and experts and people who deal with ethical issues. Of course, the consequences of adopting such a law will not be easy and will be difficult to correct. The only country - as far as I am aware - that is applying this, at least at the principal level, is the Netherlands. And the commission itself, which runs these things, has decided that this is not good. Not to continue this practice, although - as far as I know - cases have been very rare. Because they decided to act in behalf of the child. Often an advanced left, under the nickname, hides or declares himself responsible for paternity. Excuse me. This is where you come in the opposite direction. We can't develop responsible paternity in this case because it's not there because we're expelling it. I don't know any higher goals. In this case, the child becomes only an instrument for achieving a specific objective. He's got an instrumental role to play. It's an object. It's an object. Whether it's an object to treat various traumas or aversions I don't think it's good. Some emphasis was placed on the fact that problems in complete families are identical, as they are imperfect, both economically and in a psychosocial sense. Let's be specific here. If we are talking about a perfect family where fathers and mothers are, then it is clear that the economic position of the family is twice as good. If she's not a partner, she's 50% worse. If I'm looking at economics. If equipment is used for scientific or statistical calculations. It's just a fact. Someone, say, has to take that responsibility. Either it's weaker, or we're putting one parent family in a worse position, economically, or we're levelling the odds by providing social transfers by the country. There's no denying it. I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, the income of men is still, I don't know for what reasons, probably higher on average than women. This means that, in this sense, the initial social, economic position is also poorer. Many times I hear the statements of responsible parents: "Thank God we're two. Two more we can barely follow the demands of education, the demands of the incentives they are, economic life." I can say from my own experience, "Thank God we're two. That we can give children what they need, probably less than they even need." But that's the way it is. The problem, of course, is equality. The equality of children in law, before the law, that they have different positions, different starting legal positions and different positions in terms of social rights, in terms of inheritance, in terms of having, therefore, a father. Yesterday Mrs Simšičova - I will conclude immediately - said about the complete family that there is no more. That's a song. With regard to understanding, we have a number of cases in our situation where we thought that we would change practice only by renaming. Disability, people with special needs and so on. But we're talking about legal equality. I'm talking about the legal equality of children. It does not make sense, however, to talk about legal equality when natural equality is given and to demand that we all be equal. It's the same as asking that my right to be, I don't know, a woman. I'm entitled to it. We cannot post natural attributes or natural differences as legal inequalities. Well, because of these arguments, I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u9	Please don't make any comments from the hall. Raise your hand if you have something to say. It would be good to take into account some practice that you yourself have established. That's that, as I left Mr. Potsch and anyone else yesterday to go in an hour, a sentence or two, that's not so bad. But if you think it's necessary to cut, turn off the speaker at 5 minutes, we can do that. But then things might be a little awkward. I don't think that's necessary. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! I didn't intend to be involved in this debate, because of course I'm not much of an acquaintance. But I follow the responses to this law in the media. In fact, I was tempted by the introduction of the Minister yesterday in his opening act. Maybe yesterday someone asked me a question. Since I was not present at the end of the session, I will address my thought and ask myself: Mr. Minister, yesterday in your explanation you said that the law is now very broken, demolished to the extent that we can accept it without concern I wonder how the law is broken if the entire medical, practically complete medical profession, practically the entire legal profession, is rejected by the entire department of psychologists. I don't know how to explain that such a law has been annulled. Technically, maybe. But what's causing the people! And here I ask myself, also with regard to the explanation of the law, which is actually one policy: is it really the purpose of the law to pursue human goals, to help people, women in distress, women with a mother's sense? Or is it not just one of those pleias of laws that try to share the Slovenian nation? Actually, it was an old asset at least in the previous system. The number to divide the people as much as possible. And forever, there were such darknesses that shared that they did not seek the synergy that they shared. And now, apparently, there are no other themes, historical and so forth. People have become immune to this. A new means of discord in this nation must be found. If the entire profession rejects something, I have to respond. In Saturday's Work, I read a famous article by a young doctor, young poet, young writer, young Slovenian practitioner who responds to the Minister's opinion, Mr Loizet Ihan. He seems to have been very humanly involved in breathing in these professions. That the purpose of the law is politics, I am also quoted as saying that the Minister is not strong in his explanations. When he interprets in the Group of Members, he interprets differently than on the pages of the Work and otherwise, as he explains here before us. I can't imagine there are three versions of it. Come on, let's be honest about this. Are human goals, or are they merely a means? I don't want to define this in this place of law. However, it seems to me that this is an eclectic political means on which you want to share. And it was a constant practice. Those who want to share have pointed to others: separate them, share them, receive a thief! Let's stop this practice, I think. I don't think this law has been broken. And in my opinion, Mr. Minister, given serious concerns, would be obliged to withdraw him from his profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you. Is that a replica? Mr. Merlo has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! The darkness will obviously continue. My colleague Jerovšek would only remember that in these professions he breathes quite normally everywhere. I don't think there's any major misunderstandings in the profession itself. That's the way it is in others who are kind of extra gynecology. But I would remind you of the definition of health, which says that it is not just the absence of disease, but the integrity of physical, mental and sociological well-being. So not only is there a gynecologist of some sort who participates in these matters but there are also other professions; from psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers and so on, if I limit myself to single women At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to read two quotations from the book "Infertility" from the current head of the clinic of Prof. Helena Meden Vrtovec and colleagues from 1989. These quotations show that the issues that were already at issue for part of the profession were already dealt with in law and practice. And where did we run into a stumbling block? When somewhere, without a new marriage, something was not carried out, something that the law permitted. In short, we didn't do what we were committed to. I will read the quote on page 361 of this book, which states that "the constitutional right of man is to freely decide on the birth of children; this right can be restricted only for health reasons". And on page 365 of the same textbook is found: "The 1977 law already allows us to do artificial insemination," - it says, this is a seed entry, - "also for unmarried women. This type of fertilisation is decided only by very few intellectuals who have lost a good time to marry because of the studies, and later have every opportunity to raise a child well." And then, on the same side of the book, there's also a table on donor fertilizations from 1983 to 1987. These data show that every year at the Gynaecological Clinic in Ljubljana, an average of more than 200 women were fertilized and that on average 143 women were pregnant. However, how many of these interventions were carried out at the Maribor hospital and the Ljubljana health centre, which did so at the time, are not listed in the textbook. Thanks to the progress of medicine, we know that it is a large part, that is about 90% of these cases, which are, fortunately, successfully treated today by this new XI method, which mainly solves the problem of practically infertile men. So that 10% remains a donation. And we in these years, when we had permission to benefit from this donation, and it was allowed by law, but in practice - if you remember, in 1994, I don't even know if this was a written decree - stopped the implementation of donor fertilization, explaining that there are dangers of HIV, hepatitis and other sexually transmitted diseases. For which this was no longer done, despite the fact that the law allowed it. Now imagine that - just as we stopped doing it then, despite the fact that the law allowed - we would also stop transfusions and transplants. Exactly. I'd say we do know that a number of patients have already flocked. Not many of them have just picked up, because since 1994, it's not done. These many patients, unfortunately, have been waiting all these years, knocking on our door. In particular, we, Mr Sponik, who was the President of Parliament in the previous reference, know how many calls, letters and this we have received. In fact, we were powerless to push this forward. All these people today do not have the opportunity to go to different centers abroad with usually bad results, I would say, probably worse than our medicine could offer and take our money abroad, by how many working days go to zero, how much mental trauma there is for these people. This is usually just about money. We said that this biological clock has practically expired for a lot of people. I would ask: Who, and with what right, can ascend to the rights of those people who have been given them? And if he can do one, he can do the other. It may be very easy to abolish the right to terminate unwanted pregnancy, otherwise governed by the same law. However, the artificial termination of pregnancy, let us not forget, is certainly ethically controversial and does not benefit the health of the woman. I wouldn't even discuss the fate of the embryo. So basically I, as a doctor, can only support these things. I'm stopping here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sponik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In short, I would like to refer to my colleague Jerovšek when he briefed the proponents on politics. I don't know if it's wise for Members and Members of Parliament to be each other's politicians. According to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the Member shall have the possibility of proposing the law. I suggest we go to the content. He gets carried away by many Slovenian politicians, and he finds it terribly pleasant when he strikes a little over politics and politics. I would suggest that we not discuss this issue in this way. The direction of the debate was directed by respectable colleague Merlo. This is the debate that this law and this content deserve. That's right. These are real problems that are very sensitive and also personal problems. It should be said that last year the National Assembly adopted law after several years of work. We now have here a proposal for a law that seeks to resolve again one of the key last year's dilemmas, which has greatly aroused MEPs and Members. Three subjects were supposed to solve these three areas. One that is very small, however, is: to allow treatment and artificial fertilisation even in cases where both partners are infertile, that is one of the questions. The second question is about the import of sex cells: highly professional and complex matter. Third, which is also an ethical issue in particular - ethical as well as professionally and legally, if you want - this is the right to allow all women, so fertile and infertile, to have this opportunity. I would repeat the proposal I made on behalf of the parliamentary group, and I would be happy if the proposer or the proposers would respond to it. I believe that it would be in the best interests of this law to use the opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure to carry out the second and third proceedings on a regular basis. We won't waste much time. Maybe a month or two. During this time, the Slovenian profession will have the opportunity to further define some of these issues. Members and Members of Parliament, together with the civil and professional public, will have the opportunity to face professional issues further. Then, in my opinion, if this most sensitive issue could perhaps be resolved in any better way, there were not such sharp and unnecessary divisions in this law. So I would take an interest in the position of the bill's proponents not to oppose this business option. To the good of the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Is that a replica? Replica, Mrs. Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Since there has actually been a lot of talk in this debate about how this is regulated by law in other countries, it seems right and reasonable to say, on behalf of the proposaler, that the vast majority of both European and world countries here are completely, I would say, without limitation. We have also listed these countries in our explanation. I would like to point out once again that there is no limit to artificial insemination procedures in the following countries: Finland, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Netherlands, Denmark, Italy, Belgium, Israel, Australia, the United States and so on. I think that this was a mature and responsible decision in countries that have already taken or do not regulate such decisions and accept them. As for the profession, I think it is inappropriate to speak to the entire profession - and then to list such a legal, medical, medical, psychologically and I do not know which - this rejects. That's just not true. The same names of the same associations always appear in the public. We, as proponents, have also received positive feedback from the profession, but at the same time there are also indications that there are certain powers in this area that perhaps some part of the profession at the lower level of the fight and that it does not hope to express its opinions clearly and loudly. Finally, our fellow Member, Dr Merlo, is part of the profession, and I think you have heard his opinion as well. With regard to changing the procedure, we will insist on what we have planned. Not for political or non-political reasons, but for the reasons of the clock. We do not have the face to prevent people - who are currently in distress and who are making this a change of law, in fact, so quickly, after a rapid procedure - from making these procedures impossible or causing them new costs. I would like to point out to our coalition partners, the SLS SKD party, that the coalition agreement makes it clear that all coalition partners will support such a law as it was even to amend the law, as originally proposed by the Group of Members: Kopač, Kacin and Beblereva. This law has then experienced a number of changes, as Minister Keber has said, and it is armed and I think it is a violation of the coalition treaty and, in fact, an eccentric disregard for what we have agreed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Yeah, now I find we have four replicas, five. Even Mr Peterle, and then we have another debate on Mr Sok's report. Now I don't know if anyone else has been reported for the debate to somehow round up this first debate. It's a debate, Mrs Simšičeva. So we know what's left of us in this short time. I was hoping that you'd reconsider these matters overnight, so that you might be able to finish this matter sooner, but it's obviously going to take some time. I allow myself to interrupt this debate for a moment and to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey, Mr Ismail Cem, who has just joined us with his delegation. On behalf of the National Assembly, we are present, I welcome him. [[Let's hear it.]] Now we proceed with the replicas in order. Gentlemen: Tuck, Merlo, Squire, Rock, Peterle. These are all replicas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u18	Your Honor! I would only complement this picture of the international state or European state. It says here there's no limit. Finland is in the process of adopting legislation and is very much fighting, as it were, on this issue. Then, it is said that Italy is not limited, legislation is being prepared. One of the most important versions is that it will not be possible to fertilize a single woman. There is no legal restriction in Britain, but a clinic is legally imposed to ensure that the child is then placed under normal living conditions. It is said that paternity must also be provided. And because of this, the English clinics, in principle many, do not do this at all. I would point out that, of course, the passport is Austria, Germany, France, Portugal, Denmark and so on very sharp and clearly laid down these rules in order to ensure that the child is provided for at least by an extra-marital community. In Switzerland, it's not even legal or extramarital. So it had to be completed a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! I would just like to replicate it on my colleague, Mr Podobnik. I'm glad he finally made those three points again after a long time. With that, we saw that we were very close again. In short, it's not some huge problem. I'd just break them down. I'll go with the first one on this: both infertile. These people - in the profession, you just warn them that they can only reach a child by adoption. Now count that; by allowing them this possibility, except for adoption, to reach this so-called child, in the notes, of their child; this is one of the possibilities for them to reach the child. Otherwise, adoptions today can be counted that few couples can not be commended - because adoption is extremely difficult today, after the certainty of the white race of a child who is abandoned. That's today, not to say, almost impossible. I know some of these couples, I know the traumas that have come to this, as well as the economic resources they've spent on it. By taking into account these traumas; which these people experience with these additional ones to say, travel around the world in hopes of reaching a child somewhere; I am in favour of helping these couples in this way too. In the second case, the issue of donor tissues, again, is easier to solve in men, harder for women. As soon as we put it into law, there's no commercialization. You know, for free today, you don't get anything. As soon as you say, let's say it's just a seed review of 20, 30, 40 thousand tolars, and let me use the expression that whoever's going to be this seed, this donor, is going to give the seed just like you're going to give the blood, so let's say you get a sausage, or a cup of tea or something. I don't know if it's supposed to be trading or not. In short, it's even harder for a woman. As soon as we place, say, in the law that there can be no trade, here then we lock our doors and the matter is impossible in Slovenia. It's a solution. There is a fact that infertile couples who come to the examination find that in one man, in another wife is infertile, cross-registration of their tissues and allow this use to continue. In short, it's a purely human motive when couples help each other. Of course, not so much as to get to know each other, for this could in fact be painful in the rest of our lives. Doctors who are also sworn in should be able to keep these secrets to themselves. This would be noted in the documentation. Genetic tissue is also evident, as we have heard in the preceding days. I don't think there would be any abuse. This is one of the suggestions if we are already against imports of cells or tissues. That's it. This needs to be considered if these commissions, which would work at the centres, because we absolutely agreed that all lawyers and psychologists and those involved could solve this problem without politicisation. And thirdly, let's stay with those small numbers of these women, so-called singles, and for such or other reasons, we've said the definition of what this sociological, psychological component is all about, and so on. I mean, this rare and small number would just be forced to go through this committee's siesta to say state-owned, sole commission that would have it under control. And I think that these data - which we would, let's say, go look at at at the end of this reference, if we're going to allow it - would probably be so negligible that we're probably going to have a political confrontation right now: like the old one, the left one, then the opposite one, and vice versa. That's it. I don't see these problems as very big problems, as we might be proving here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I would ask that replicas be replicas, not debates. So please, if you're so kind as to tell who you're replicating and then stick to what's a replica so that the replica doesn't give rise to a general discussion. Mr Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Replica to colleague Orzm. I'd like to replicate two of her thoughts. The first is that the argument of the biological clock cited as the reason why, as a proponent, it does not support the proposal that the second and third proceedings be adopted in accordance with the normal procedure. I took this position of yours with regret. I myself believe that it is the professional and serious debate of colleague Merla, particularly on the second topic, on the issue of donor tissues, when he said that there are still some issues that need to be considered. And if you think about it, you need some more time. This is an additional argument that the majority would, however, support the adoption of the second and third hearings by normal procedure. Maybe it's two months. Then this is no longer a matter of the biological clock. And another part of the replica. And this is more of a political nature, but it was pronounced here. As a rule, the coalition is simply saving its various views at its coalition meetings and so on. But it was said here that the position of our parliamentary group is contrary to the coalition treaty. As understanding the coalition treaty is also part of a political culture in the country, it is necessary to respond clearly to this view. First of all, there is no indication in this coalition agreement that this law will be adopted in a swift manner. That's the first one. And secondly, this is where the unwritten rule applies. I would say, in all the normal parliaments and policies of this Council, that there is no coalition treaty or other document that goes beyond the conscience of an individual, a Member or a Member. And you will admit that this is one of those rare things where it is generally considered that a Member has the right and the duty to decide in his conscience and in his fundamental judgment. It is also true that colleagues in the LDS wrote this law and wrote it in a coalition contract even slightly in this permissive euphoria and that this law and the provisions of this law were indeed to be placed on grinding, as was said, even with the help of Minister Kebra. If we were to adopt and adopt a law as originally proposed, this would not be an honor to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u23	Replica has Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Well, a lot of this has already been said by a colleague, Mr. Podobnik. In fact, see also - I also replicate to my colleague Mrs Orzmov - there is probably no coalition agreement in addition to conscience, which would be over the opinion of the competent medical or legal profession, which would not respect the opinion of the secretariat on the legislation of the National Assembly. I think it's the key post office that the coalition treaty has, and if it's written in any way, it has to be taken into account. Fact day. In doing so, my fellow Member, Mrs Orzmova, it has happened many times in this House that you have forced a change of agenda, as outlined in the original vote. And many times you have also caused this Parliament to have done less than it could have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I warn Mr Jakič that there is also a rule of procedure in this house. Mr. Peterle has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u26	Your Honor! Thank you for your word. I see that there is still a debate in which apples and pears are at the same time. There is no way to identify, however, that we do not speak generally, to separate, those who oppose such a law, healthy and unhealthy or fertile and infertile, and do not throw different categories into the same basket. So I see that we are problematic about ethical, legal, psychological and other aspects, and on the other hand, we feel a markedly ideological interest, as I said yesterday. So, we're for treatment, we're for help, but we're not for supporting an ideologically commercial project, as it was set up here by the medical profession with its eminent and first organisation. I would like to ask Ambassador Zalokar Orazmovo: in what law of what European country is singleness presented as a disease? I think singleness is a choice, not a disease that you treat with the collective paternity of the state. Where does the country assume the role of a collective father, as impressed by this bill? Then I would also ask: which European law had as much ideological justification as this one. And because that is the emphasis on the right to have a child. Pay attention, I repeat, to have a child. I've been waiting for the next day for someone to say rights to children from advocates. In fact, if we are so deeply involved in this area and we are thus reducing the issue of justice, I advise that we also ask ourselves about the rights of children. Does a child have the right to both parents? A child who doesn't speak, of course. I'm afraid it's a lot of instrumentation for a child, just because it's called having a baby and we're biologically proven, it's talk. And socially confirmed in some way. What if a child - as many want - wants to have a sister and a brother. Since the import of seeds is not a problem, the technique allows why would there be no more children, why not have this sister or brother if he wants to? Does he have a right or does he not have one? Look, this is where questions for questioners are opened. And if we're back in the profession, which I have from these books - we have three children - read on this subject, I read from professions, psychologists, sociologists - do not advise uniques. All of this is meant for the only ones. I don't understand what you're saying. And one more thing. So, this will increasingly explain what is needed, as far as possible, we are going into this debate. I very much agree with those who - and I myself - have said that such matters that interfere with the very beginning of life and the key issues of one society cannot simply be done by a vote in one hour, in three rounds. This is not a quick procedure, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have two more debates. In addition, Mr Minister has expressed his wish to speak at this time. It would probably be useful if he hadn't said a word about this. You'll be in the end. Okay. In the end. Mr. Auschwitz, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterlet in the first part at all. Indeed, even outside of the Chamber, particularly among opponents of this law, there is the issue that this law is a commercialisation of the problem that we are talking about, or the commercial interest of those who support the law, even within the professions of such interest. I think Dr. Merlo answered that question if anyone wanted to listen to him. This is already being done and this is also available to Slovenian women who cannot have children in any case. However, this is not available in Slovenia in a legal way. It's available abroad in a legal way. Even in Slovenia, there is always this possibility, of course beyond any control, beyond both professional and other controls necessary to do so. It would therefore be necessary to reject any thought or argument against this law if it were the interests of the commercialisation of this part of the profession. I think that's basic. And second. Mr Peterle states or notes that this is intended for the only ones, the children who will be the only ones in such a community. I don't know, but maybe I didn't read the law right. Nowhere does it say that a woman, who wants to have a child, can have a child other than with the help of an expert and in the way that this law stipulates; she cannot have two children. Nor is it written anywhere, and I think it often happens that after the first child there are some health problems in the family on one side or the other, and they want to have a couple or even more children in such a family, but they cannot have. There's an open road this way, too. So, anyway, I'm adopting this law myself, of course, with mixed feelings. I believe, however, that the instrumentation contained in the law, in particular by the Commission, will achieve its purpose much better than if we leave it to a stalemate, which is, of course, another way of thinking which remains if we do not solve it in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you. We will now give the word to Mr Minister because he has obligations and it is imperative that he speak a little bit about these things. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u30	Dear Members and Members! I am sorry that I will have to leave after this contribution and that, of course, I am expecting or perhaps some replicas to be restored. I am also aware of my fact, I mean the facts, of some advantage to finally answer and then leave. However, it is almost certain that I cannot influence those who are confident of one or the other option. I can only explain views that may have been unclear. Those, I will say, are well-intentioned questions and comments which may be based or which are confidently based on slightly different views and with which a different view can be influenced. First: Why did this thing start? First, the question must be answered. It started because this country introduced a new right to biomedical assistance and infertility treatment. That's what she said. She's been reinstated once and again in the marriage last year. This means that this right exists. We are talking about whether this is a right, not a right to a child, but the right to a procedure offered by the State. Is this right accessible and accessible to all who run for it under certain rules? Is part of the population excluded from this right? That means it's my opinion that we need to roll. We are talking about the law, now in force, which has ruled out a particular population to the right of this procedure. The second question of course is: What is the profession and what is the opinion of the profession? I have, and many others have, written about it in this new country, the profession and politics, the use and the abuse. I would also like to say in this House, at least until recently I thought I belonged to the profession. I'm aware I belong to politics right now. But the profession is completely sovereign when it tells you it's one and one two. You can't vote it out. However, when the profession is defined for questions at the level of opinion, it acts as a civil society. Although she can be well informed, she has a lot of knowledge, she can do a lot of good, but she gives an opinion. Opinion may be an expert opinion, but it is an opinion. It's not a final and callous decision. Allow me to use the example: Medical profession - although I could use it, of course there is no time to explain - made her mistake the moment she did not remain in the field of fertility treatment and did not remain in this law, now in force. She introduced insemination procedures with biomedical assistance for a fertile woman in a marriage where the partner is infertile. Well, it's not a cure. This is ultimately a solution to the problem of this law - I will not say that solving the problem of man - is a solution to the common problem. But it's not a cure. The answer could be that this country would not tolerate any process of fertilisation with biomedical aid; the moment it introduced it, it introduced a right. From this she carried out the profession - and here she went along with her medical ethics commission - exceeded the field of her activity when she determined that it belonged only to couples. It's not medicine anymore. It has reached into the field of social values. Some of you said it was politics. Let's change this: it's focused on defining traditions of social values and everything else in society. Marriage, a couple's life, is not natural or is not proof that this would be a natural event, is a social convention; I personally believe it, but it is just a convention. And because it is a convention, because it has remained, as a rule, in most societies of the millennium and will probably be, but it can also change. I do not claim to encourage this by this law, but in any case to speak of a couple as a natural gift, the view of nature can in most cases convince us of the opposite, and of course also the view - although I am aware of the demagogogility of this argument - of the view of a tribal society as explained by historians, probably no longer defines life as a couple as the only one, or I will say, as a natural event among living beings. After all, the permanent document is the number of divorces that exist and say that this thing is not so natural that it in itself keeps itself, but that society in one way or another supports it. Therefore, the interpretation of medicine, especially in the case of controversy, in the case of last year's law, czech, we introduced a couple because otherwise it is not possible to prove infertility, of course, is quite funny. In medicine, the right rules never say how to diagnose someone’s right to treatment. Medicine, if it wanted to stay in the field of infertility treatment, could only talk about it and then be credible. That is why, of course, she must have crossed this field at this point and entered the field of politics, not politics, into the field of politics. In a field where the whole company can decide and this company has its representatives in this House. These representatives will answer to their people or to their citizens if they make the wrong decision. What is the essence of the new law? Member Podobnik has well defined, if we say that the previous law has solved the dilemma that biomedical fertilisation procedures are possible, i.e. intervention into a healthy woman. Then it's just a matter of singleness. And the second question, the fate of a future child. These two questions remain as fundamental. Well, the third question that was mentioned was, we talked a little about it, and I won't be able to get enough, but it is, a child from two foreign cells in a couple where they are both infertile. True, this is a terrible statistically impossible event, but it will happen. I would like to point out that this is not a surrogate motherhood in the sense that some conventions are cited from the world. A surrogate motherhood, a borrowed womb, and so on, refers to cases where a woman actually becomes fully pregnant and lends her child to a couple who do not have a child. In our case, because I want to tell those who want to understand it that way. In our case, there is a woman who has her own pregnancy, who also gives birth to a child from two foreign cells to herself. And pregnancy is like an event that I don't have the right to judge as a man, but I think it's an event that doesn't bind you genetically, but it binds you in many other ways with a child born. So singleness is a matter where, logically, I speak only in a political way, what is singleness and what is the problem when this country already has, not a state, this nation has centuries of pronunciation, a woman supports three corners in the family, and a man has one, and at this point we do not believe in any corner. Because we obviously believe in separate couples in two corners, but in separate couples, because otherwise this Parliament should be discussing all the years only how to solve the problems of one quarter of the separate women, because they are in fact born of less quality children. I use this term because the members of the ethical commission are in search of arguments, of course they do not like, they do not, but they have used the expression on the question whether a single mother can statistically, in a large number of cases, give birth or raise a child who would have fewer options that will be less quality. Here they have walked in a very slippery area, what the state can define in the law, that in the future it will be somehow and that it is possible to ban it from the beginning. I will not go into a debate that would trigger a very large number of replicas. What some countries in the past had been able to ban because they were anticipating that something bad was going to happen. We have to go to a single or this child without a father. There was a speech about identification with my father, with my biological father. Let me also point out that the biological father is not in a pair of treatments or OBMPs. Even when we do an insemination of a woman who lives here with a partner who's infertile, this child doesn't have a biological father. True, he has a foster father, or whatever we name him. He has a father. But it's about identification, the question of when in puberty he's going to ask his mother, "Who's my father?" and began to search for his father, he remains almost the same, that these procedures would logically be more inappropriate than those of single women. I would also like to say quantitatively how much of the profession she said no. I believe the profession has its own representation, has its own ethical commission. He also has his own chambers. I just want to inform you that the Medical Chamber said not after one representative of the Ethics Commission came forward and the others raised their hand without discussion. It was mass support of the profession. Personally, I have letters from professors of gynecology who support the current solutions to this law. World-wide proportions. There were a lot of answers, but there's an article on the table that says they're already choosing sex in America. To choose the color of the eyes. I think we'll be able to defend our decisions very much on the ground. Just as I think we'll be able to defend ourselves for at least a long time before the euthanasia process. For example, one country in Europe alone in connection with euthanasia was enough to trigger a violent, otherwise brief debate in that country. There was one. Of course, there are a number of cases here. A lot of countries that are opening you up. However, some countries that do not legally support it accept it within clinics are not enough to at least accept it as a fact that we are at a crossroads, that this society is developing, that humanity is developing in this direction and that it will always be necessary, otherwise very carefully and as I have said, to make decisions in this area very seriously. I'd say this. Which, of course, gives me additional impetus, even though it is only an indication of some subconscious act that we are nonetheless underestimating a woman. After all, underestimating that she is capable of raising a child who will be a suitable member of society and that there could be fewer problems if it were a man. After all, in fertilizing a healthy woman in a marriage, it's a man, and there was no debate, it's a man. That is why I would say this: this law is large in my opinion, not because it talks about the problems of all citizens, but because it answers the great dilemmas because it is a problem of a small number of people. And that, I think, is the essence of democracy, that we know when rights appear in society, that these rights are granted to all citizens, those who, of course, meet those rights. In short, because this raises the typical practical question, "What about men?" I don't know what the future will show. I absolutely support the adoption of a child after a single woman and after a single man. If this is not in law, another, it is no argument to me that in the law before you today, we must take that into account. At this point, of course, it is still a little early to think about how a single man, on reasonable grounds, would reach a child because today he needs a partner. It's not really about a single man anymore, it's about a single man, because he needs a woman, but this woman isn't just a reproductive organ, she's going to develop a relationship to her pregnancy, to her baby, and it's basically a couple, you want it or you don't want it, it's another spectrum of questions that this society is going to answer, I'm sure. But this time, and in this marriage, it cannot be used to open up a right that goes to women who don't go to men. That's what I was gonna say. I think it's appropriate that this law, to say again, shut down the door, set up a procedure. I mean, terms such as trading are not understandable to me and no one could explain how this trade would have taken place, because it cannot be explained in such a small number of cases. And that's why, of course, I accept, I think, I understand the public distribution of issues that are fundamental. It's about values in society, about tradition, it's about, excuse me, it's about the Catholic tradition and the tradition of some other societies and groups. That's a legitimate question to be asked. And in this respect, the issue is an eminent political issue, not just and in particular not only an item of medical expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since Mr. Secretary is leaving, I'm asking if anyone will be able to replace you here at this time? [[Yeah.]] We've got two more debaters. We have Mr. Sok to have his own debate. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members, Mr Minister! Yesterday and today a lot has been said, but the fact remains the same: in the nature of man it is that man loves, but if he does not, he binds himself to the wrong things. It seems to me that this law in one of its works, when it comes to the artificial fertilization of single women, came only to this bonding, to the wrong things, and that it actually missed its essence. No one is opposed to the fact that the right to treat infertility is guaranteed to all those who have these problems. However, I wonder myself, but I know that this question was raised yesterday, and how, in fact, a single woman should know that she is infertile. Well, that's not such a minor question. This seems to me to be one of the fundamental issues that should be addressed in a broader debate and also in line with this. I know the applicant's argument, they say that every mother has the right to a child, but there is another argument: every child has the right to know who his biological father is. And the rights of one person can only be limited by another person's right. I'm not sure you're proposing this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u33	I'm asking for peace in the hall! I'm sorry, Mr. Sok, but that's not how it works. I would ask Members and Members to listen to a colleague. Please, Mr. Sok, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u34	I am not sure that you are proposing this law really convinced that this matter is going in the right direction. But since you have decided to do so, you will. However, I would like to remind you how you advocated children’s rights in the census law. You said that a child is 14 years old, has to make his own decisions, and he will have to write to his parents in writing that they can answer two questions on his behalf. So, here we are talking about this question now, does the child have the right to know who his father is? Not from the marriage that's ahead of us. However, there has been a lot of talk about these ethical or moral reasons and the rights of children. And I might point to the other side, to the very technical aspect of this law, which I hear there was a lot of talk yesterday. I ask you, the proponents, how will you technically regulate the storage of sex cells, how will you handle the issues, say the import of sex cells and the possibilities, if these donor data, about sexual cell donors, are anonymous, the possibility of preventing incest. To avoid incest between a brother and a sister, or I could go further, incest between a daughter and a father, or a son and a mother. So, in all these cases, if this data is not available, it will be possible to do so in nature. So the data will have to be available and someone will have to know about it. And if anyone knows about this information, then, of course, here is the legal question, when, at which point, the child will be conceived from his mother or perhaps even from the doctor who did it, he will be asked to tell him who his father is. See, the question of artificial fertilisation - Sorry, I do not want to compare a person with the procedure in livestock, but as a veterinarian I can tell you that this matter started a long time ago in livestock farming; in fact, it started because of infectious diseases in domestic animals, because of the then very widespread trihomonia and fibriosis they switched to artificial insemination. Soon, however, another principle joined this basic principle of work, that is, selection. In this way, it was found that animals could be quickly selected, especially with male sex cells, and later they found that they could also use female offspring to clone through embryos. I ask you, do you not think that when we open the door to this law and allow artificial insemination procedures to be carried out in humans, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Actually, the next move will be the selection. [[...]] That is exactly what the Minister - I will conclude right now - in some part of it I will say that certain parents already want to choose such a child, with such eyes, with such an intelligent quota and so on. The second thing I think. If the law is adopted as it is, I am sure that in practice it will not be possible to implement it. After all, which wife will accept the sexual cell of an unknown donor, or what donor will give sexual cells to an unknown offspring? What are these people going to be like? I propose, given the delicacy of this area, that at least we do this so that we do not adopt this law quickly, but we take some time to discuss some of the issues in public again and listen to the strength of the arguments, not the arguments of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Simšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that it is actually difficult to engage in the debate after such a thorough and substantive debate as Mr Minister with whom he opened, I think, the key issues. And when I watched us in this hall, and I'm sure the feeling didn't deceive me, that we all had a strong idea of how the principles and how they were handled. And it is a shame that he is no longer here, so that we can continue to talk on this subject, because I think that many of the arguments that we have heard may have been spoken again or heard in the way that the Minister actually wanted to be heard. However, I would like to re-engage in the debate on women's autonomy, the autonomy of their integrity and also of their personality. Yesterday I read from the declaration of the United Nations, which was adopted in 1959 on the basis of the view that humanity owes children the best, two principles of ten accepted principles, where only mothers and children are explicitly defined. So they need special protection for mothers and children, and only in extremely difficult circumstances can the child be separated from his mother. These are both principles of principle 6 and 8. So I think we need to think about this issue as well. Secondly, I still believe that the country is responsible for its citizens and citizens to establish the conditions that make it possible to realize all their wishes, desires, plans, even if you wish. Then let it establish control mechanisms or allowing this to happen, there is an irregularity and, if there is, then, of course, let it also sanction things. If we are so very afraid to allow people to access certain procedures, then, of course, it is the most elegant method to ban everything. Where, of course, any prohibition leads, we know very well. At least in some segments. Then I think it's right to say out loud what I didn't say yesterday or I didn't want to say when there were a lot of words about the profession. Look, the president of the ethics commission, Dr. Tomaževič, is presented as the entire profession in this field. It may be, but at the same time I am interested in how you somehow allow yourself, on behalf of the entire gynecological clinic in Ljubljana, where he is employed, to say on national television that none of the doctors and none of the sisters employed in this institution are willing to respect this law and to follow this law. If that's ethical, I have a tough question. On the question of ethics of such a statement. And, of course, not least, if you want, even the man who makes that statement. And even the argument that when he was here several times, that in some countries where these procedures are allowed to all women, some refuse procedures, yes, I will just read that there is no evidence that growing up in a single parent's family is not harmful to a child. Yeah, it's written in this paper we got here. Of course, we can also say things differently, depending on what optics we want to show things in. Nor has it been shown that it is harmful, nor has it been proved that it is not good, nor has it been proved that anything could have been better. It's a thing of how we say things. And if some refuse, then, of course, we cannot generalize that all clinics reject this and that it is not possible. And one more thing. If they're with someone like this seven years ago, I apologize to those who did, but the doctors decided that the procedures allowed by the law would no longer be allowed. They simply decided because they had decided to do so and decided not to enforce the law. Good. Of course, that seems extremely controversial to me. They also decided not to implement the law adopted last year. Today, we read in all these documents and papers that there are over 400 couples waiting for me to go to couples, marriage or whatever you want, to biomedical assistance procedures. And even the law that was passed last year does not allow these couples to do so. Because it was these experts who stopped the proceedings seven years ago that they did nothing, neither on the issue of the seed bank nor on certain other procedures. And I don't think that's acceptable. That is why I support the law, as proposed, even if single women are very rarely able to exercise this legal right. It's no big deal, but at least the vast majority of people waiting for procedures and the biological clock is a biological clock, let's make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Now we're going in order. First of all, I'm asking Mr. Cuckati if he wanted a replica. [[A voice from behind.]] Then you're giving up this replica? Next one's got a replica. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Yes, please. Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u38	Well, I also regret that Mr. Minister is not here. First of all, I'd like to replicate his attitude towards the profession. Let me mention, Mrs Simšičova also said that the conclusions of the profession are strange, that the holder of an individual opinion is only an individual, Tomažič. Ethical Commissions, I must say, the president of the Ethics Commission is Professor Trontel. And that's where position 1:6 was adopted. Six supported, one didn't support the decision. That's what they call cordial support. The Medical Chamber was mentioned. In the Medical Chamber, much earlier discussions were held and a decision was taken by the Assembly with one abstention. And the congregation of the Medical Chamber is made up of representatives who are loved and have high-ranking among doctors, otherwise they would not be chosen. And that's why it seems strange to me that the minister himself is using the profession's conclusions as long as he likes them, but who doesn't like them, but he's revitalising them with his left hand. Let me read the opinion of the Secretariat for the Law of the National Assembly, just one part of the paragraph: "In the light of my tasks, the Secretariat is obliged to point out that the birth of a child born in the process of fertilisation with biomedical assistance in the proposed cases [[So in the case of a single woman]] does not give rise to the legal consequences of paternity. Such a child, legally speaking, is born without a father who can gain it only if adopted by a man with the Institute of Complete Adoption. Under this circumstance, children will be born this way, [[So it's for single women.]] in a substantially different, worse legal situation than other children, to begin fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid where the law establishes the legal consequences of motherhood and paternity." This is said in both marriage and extramarital communities. If this is for the Minister now not the professional opinion of the legal service, but some opinion of civil society, then I don't know where we came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have four more replicas and one more debate. We have two or one procedural proposal that you made yesterday, Mr Podobnik, today supported by Mr Sok. I don't know if it makes sense for anyone else to apply every so long. It's kind of not the basic idea of the rules of procedure. So, of course, I ask you to respect the rules of the game and to apply to the debate when the time is right and then we can bring the point to an end. Because today, obviously, we're not going to end this point either. On the other hand, this may point to the need to be more rational in the debate and to try to vote on the procedural proposal you made yesterday regarding the course of the debate and the conclusion of the law. But no matter what, we have four replicas. Mr Gaber, Mr Brenčič, Mr Anderlich and Mr Peterle. Please, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u40	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! I'm reporting to the replica because there's a lot of talk about what the expert is saying about these issues and I'm going to start on the other side. I hope that we are all aware that we are speaking politically here and that this debate is political, including mine. At the same time, we know something else. That people have certain professional, such or different backgrounds and that these divisions can never be carried out to the end. As it is true, in my deep conviction, what a fellow minister has said is that the medical profession, when discussing these issues, has come from its own expertise and has entered two fields, this issue needs to be addressed. Firstly, it entered the field of political, in the field of values of society. There are no preconditions in this field of medicine. He has no prejudices in front of other people, and he does not have them, especially not in front of other professions. Secondly, she entered the field of other professions. When we listen through the mouth of medics, experts in an area, to talk about the only true form of family, I ask myself, as a sociologist by profession, how long has this been their profession? What do they really know? What kind of research do they rely on? I'm not saying they don't know anything. However, I argue that the professions that know much more about this and have also done research on it are significantly more serious, especially when it comes to family, than the social phenomenon. In sociology, it is just that there is a dominant opinion, and on purpose I am talking about the dominant professional position, for a long time, that a nuclear family is not the only appropriate form of family. The famous Murdoch definition, which was created on the basis of study, I think 240 different communities have long ceased to exist. Families have long been proclaiming in the field of social thinking something that is in crisis. But for almost a decade now, for at least a decade, it has been in sociology that it is very likely that the family is not in crisis or on a line that is exposed to the conservative concept of the family, even though it is no longer legal, so there is no longer a family, because some other forms appear that we cannot recognize, and even through a line of so-called liberal approaches, if, the family is nothing, let us agree that other forms of co-existence are only real - no. I myself belong to those who believe that there is a more professionally consistent position that reminds us that a family that has spent long periods and is the dominant way of living in these rooms, but today, is changing, is an overly complex phenomenon that we could dare to talk about that where there is no father, it is an automatic minus. Who's telling us that? Research shows, for example, that in a whole bunch of cases in Central and South America, this has been carefully researched, that the so-called matrifocal family is an extremely good quality of life, generally at least as good as the nuclear family in that area. That's what research proves. Of course, I understand that those who cannot think about these things or are so deeply convinced that they are always the only ones, then they can send people to live there. What I draw from this fact myself is that at least we have to afford a fundamental scepticism when I say that I know what the only way of life is. That's what we're talking about. And since the only serious argument that he's dealing with here is that the only real family is a nuclear family, then I have to say that the profession, the one that's been doing this a lot, hasn't believed in this for a long time. Of course, let me finish something else. What we are also discussing here is whether certain beings in the world will exist or not. In Slovenia this moment lives a certain number of people who have been given life in accordance with the law that has already been applied here in a certain way - do we hope to tell them that they should not live, that they have been brought up unquality? Who are we who say this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion. I'm sorry. I didn't see it before. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I really did stop by immediately after Mrs Danica Simšič's discussion. However, I would also like to replicate briefly the performance of the Minister. We must admit that the Minister had a very good performance, which does not mean that he has not yet opened the debate. He didn't lock her up. He did not resolve the fundamental dilemma enshrined in this law. He made clear some questions; he raised the question of singleness. In the end, of course, it also led to values that were not at the forefront of this debate. If we're going this way, which I don't think was the purpose of this law, then there are some solutions that are such that we can't take them again in a fast procedure. Dr. Gaber has now raised the issue of the relationship to the evaluation of the profession. On the question of how the profession has been defined and I have therefore referred to Mrs Danica Simšič's debate, but it has already been pointed out that Prof. Dr Tomaž Tomaževič is the President of the Commission for Infertility with Biomedical Assistance. It was just a lapsus, I agree. But you know where the problem is. The problem is that it is also an expert profession, and this is a commission which is legally binding under the applicable law in Article 21, to be bound by the proposed laws in this area. And she did it, I hope, I would suggest, and I fear that you do not all have this material. You all do. I don't know. Do you have the position of the Commission for Infertility with Biomedical Aid, which has taken a position on the proposed law in the five articles? It has been defined and the law obliges it to be defined. And look, the commission has identified itself to all the novelties of the marriage. There was only one vote of 7 to 1 and one vote of all. I would suggest, Mr Vice-President, that Members and Members take this very important position, which is an integral part of the law in force, that the current law states in Article 21 that the Commission appointed by the Minister shall give an opinion on the draft rules issued under this Act, as well as that it shall monitor the progress of medical science in the field of reproductive medicine and, if necessary, propose amendments and supplement the applicable legislation to the competent minister and Professor Keber, who has written to this Commission and asked for an opinion and also received an opinion. That's the part. However, I would like to conclude with a question that relates to the issue of values. I think it would be a mistake to think that the medical profession has taken the floor. She only took it where she needed knowledge and behavior. But where he doesn't have one, other professions are invited to join. In this case, the profession responded as it had jurisdiction. And here's where I wouldn't attack. We also have a medical ethics commission run by a highly respected Slovenian doctor. This is a highly respected academic by Prof. Dr. Jože Trontel. I can also tell you, as his student, that he is a man worthy of trust. With his life and work he is a man who gives credibility to this commission. This does not mean that someone may have a different opinion when given by the Medical Ethics Commission. What is wrong, or where is the shame that this commission has defined itself to the original proposal given in that authorising mood? And that was bad because this proposal was too provocative and the Commission has identified itself for these proposals. Therefore, it would be necessary to give time for the relevant professional institutions to be identified also up to the new solutions that have been put in place with the amendments. I tell you, a reasonable solution is to take the second and third readings on a normal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u43	May I ask you a question, Mr. Sponik! You are referring to the Commission for Insemination with Biomedical Assistance and the material that this Commission has addressed to Mr Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee. This material has also been received by the leaders of the groups of Members, but I will ask that the professional services copy this letter and distribute it to Members and Members of Parliament. The LDS delegation also has a combined list, including DeSUS. SDS, you don't. I ask the leaders of the groups of Members to take care of these two or three groups of Members who do not have one. Young, texting, national? If you do not have a request, please let the leaders of the parliamentary groups take care of this material either here and, of course, we will deliver it or make sure that you receive it. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will have a brief replica, but it will be more so that, through Dr Gabra's discussion or debate, I feel somehow like Mrs Simšič's chairman of this committee, that I am almost guilty because I dared to invite myself to a debate in this law, that part of the profession that is evident outside that he has been called to such a mother. We have made many decisions so far, and in the previous term we have made quite a political decision. It would be interesting to go back to the way some of us then said that we should listen carefully, but it was a very political decision. I think that in this law, in dealing with this law, this profession, as we have named some today by name, has played a positive role in the search for the good solutions that this law is supposed to bring. And it's almost, at least for me to be so distasteful, so drastic to consult with this profession that it's a sociological part of the problem and should be professional in the field of medical ethics, etc., it's not meant to go too deeply into this content. All I have to say is that, for the sake of Professor Trontl's good name, it is necessary to say that he is the President of the Ethics Commission, Mrs Danica, and that he has played a relatively positive role on the Committee, at least for me, and together with the amendments proposed by the Government in the title of Professor Kebra, we have resolved the better content of this law. So, as chairman of the committee, of course, I will also wish to have a professional participation in the work of the committee, including in a mother who may be a little more politically sensitive. It's not until then that we need it anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u45	Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u46	It is undeniable that it will be difficult to unify views of these issues today or in half a year or at the end of this term, or I am sure that it will not be possible. For at least ten years, intensive debates take place, if you wish, on the amendment of Article 55 of the Constitution, which deals with the free decision on the birth of their children, and on other articles of the Constitution, which speak of each individual deciding and determining how he or she will live. On the basis of these constitutional bases, however, the State must ensure that every citizen is provided with the conditions under which he can exercise his or her rights. It's just that some things are impossible to connect. Mr. Peterle was talking about apples and pears. However, the most prominent example was the reference to a commission which was tasked with implementing the law adopted last year at certain points, defining certain matters and so on, but not that it is the one that only interprets the law and the one that will influence the change of the law in one way or another. Absolutely, all opinions are useful and necessary in these debates, but it certainly cannot be some kind of veto, something that would give someone more rights than it gives to the legislator. Because I know that there have been a lot of professional arguments, and because I know that the majority of us in this Chamber now are sure how we will vote is unnecessary - and because this is just a continuation of the debate, public debate, if you want, from a year and a half or two ago, and this is the moment in which it will come and it is the right thing to make a decision - I think that those calls that talk about, let's give time, let's discuss publicly and so on, at this point are unnecessary. I therefore propose that we, however, define ourselves to that end. However, I am confident that this issue will trigger a number of discussions and definitions in the coming months and in the coming years. I am also not sure that there will ever be any more conservative regulation of these issues than some imagine today, if the power relationship changes, it will certainly be. So, I don't want this period, but this is my thing, and you have to let me have this right, as I allow everyone the right to think differently, and that you will vote that way. That is why I believe, after all that has now been said, what has been said, what has been published in the past years and, above all, when we adopt a law that we are also changing today, that we are simply voting on solutions that are explained and, of course, also changing proposals that have their weight. I am not making illusions, nor am I going to discuss certain rights and problems and all the other things that are accompanied here by individuals, individuals in this country. I advocate that they have the right to help, and the country is obliged to do so, and I will certainly vote that, to the greatest extent possible, there will be obstacles to addressing these problems at home, not abroad, for large money, of course we will do so. I myself stand for this and hope that the LDS Members in the majority will, or fully support it, and that we will end this point in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Peterle has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Now there's more than one replica. I'll talk to you soon. First of all, to the Minister, on whom I will also have a procedural proposal, or, regarding our work. See, in some parts of his debate he has undoubtedly added quality to this debate, also opened up some new issues or new dimensions, new aspects that would be very useful to discuss. However, I was not happy that an institution was essentially disqualified when it commented on the technical aspect, saying that they had decided without discussion. As I was taught, there was a debate before, but, in short, how many things went through here without discussion, without serious debate or very little debate, and I would say, we did not disqualify it, we made a decision to know. [[...]] Secondly, I repeat to my fellow Member Simsich. It's a matter of conscience. See if freedom of conscience applies only to elected representatives of the people, it will be bad. Of course, the doctor is also bound by a doctor's oath. And I think that, of course, they also have the right to make conscientious decisions under the Constitution. And I'd remember that. Look, Hitler came up legally. And they passed the laws, and some were working according to these laws, and some were not. And we're happy for those who didn't work by those laws. In fact, you come to life when the conscience is to be put in absolute first place, or it should always be the right thing to do. And I'm not for that kiss. For some, conscience is the first criterion, but for others, the first criteria will be the first. Let's be on the same page. Then a replica, a short one, to my colleague, Ambassador Gabr. I don't think it's good to say that there are some people here who are talking about the only possible model. I have not heard from any of the opponents of such a law that I would represent here the only possible model of marriage. It was said quite differently, although, of course, everyone has the right to represent a model that seems most appropriate to him, and in this sense, Mr Gaber has not told us anything new that sociologists have identified different forms and trends and so on. Of course, the trends themselves are not proof of the correctness, a priori correctness of another model. Well, there is undoubtedly a valuable debate on this. And now that I've got into the hands of this from, the paper from the Medical Chamber, I'm even more certain that it's unwise to rush into this question in this way. And here I think that doctors have responded very precisely and clearly to some claims made by the law's proponents and have said that some of the data is not true, and I do not want us to decide on the basis of wrong and ideological origins as they were given. I now propose the following. Look, when we talked about an inappropriately less important issue, statistics, we had at least two representatives of the institution all the time, we now have no representative of the Ministry of Health. And this profession is obviously important or most important in this regard. I propose that if there is no other way to do this and I do not know why we have not already considered a procedural proposal without discussion to bring this to a swift conclusion, then I propose that we postpone this debate, stop and postpone the debate until the Minister or someone, his Commissioner, is easily present. I'd like to talk about what he opened, because I think it's important questions. My procedural proposal is that we stop the debate until the Minister can or the Ministry ensures participation in our debate. We're talking to ourselves again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have a procedural proposal and, of course, I am putting it to the vote. Mr Peterle suggested that we stop the meeting and continue it when the representatives of the Ministry of Health are here to discuss these matters. That's why it's a procedural proposal. We're voting please. Of the 74 present, 26 votes in favour, 39 against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. The next one has a word for the replica, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Brenčič, as far as I am concerned, of course you have mistakenly identified yourself in my words, if you are, and I can apologize for this, although I do not see a particular need. I've only warned you of one thing, and I think it's important. It is not a profession that has exclusive right to certain opinions, especially when the profession speaks to an aura of expertise, which is in some field, but goes beyond the scope of its narrower expertise or even its expertise; I remain so. While the professions are concerned - and it would also be very good to assume - that they are within themselves, especially when it comes to serious issues, they are divided, because otherwise they are not serious professional questions. If the medical profession is not seriously divided, and I don't want to go into this when it comes to claiming what is a better type of family, what is a better way of coexisting people, then it just says that this is not an essential professional question in the core. If it were, you'd believe me, just be divided. I myself have talked about what sociology is thinking about; I have not mentioned that this is the only saving position within sociology. What I have referred to myself when I speak of having the feeling that colleagues from another profession are going to areas that are not their own expertise, and trying to judge this with complete merit, but published texts are published in public. This is what is said in newspapers by people who have their dignity in a certain area, about what is happening with a child in a single - parent family made up of a child, a single mother, and so on. These are professional questions that require more attention. I'm not saying that we know the answer, but that the answer is one, and that those who live with their mother alone are immediately on the worse side, in relation to those who also have their father, it's too short. What is certain is that they live differently. The difference between being on the bad side and being on the bad side is at least big for me. We also see some of this in the celebration of the Medical Ethics Commission. There are also claims going this way. But I didn't, I say again, refer to any of your sessions, and I appreciate you inviting the expert there. Perhaps it would be even better if it were different when it comes to questions that go on in many areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Bernick has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be brief. Otherwise, I will not talk about what the reasons for the proposal of this law were, but I will say this that I am concerned about everything I read, that this is political feminism, but I will not discuss this, although my opinion is that it is probably something like, at least, that matters in this introduction and also the way of procedure, it is said, it is a quick procedure. It seems to me that there was little public discussion about this matter, about this matter. When it comes to such essential issues, because we now have one area here, we will come to cloning and all that, it is thought that a very broad public discussion is needed and a consensus is found, if possible. I have an article in my hand from the last issue of The Economist that says, "The Future Ethical War in America." And he's talking about cloning, all these interventions into human nature. And then he also talks about how politics and law are very far away for the scientific profession. And it seems to me that we are in this situation too, because an area like this really needs to be processed. Each serious country has a duty to review all possible consequences, legal, psychological and so on. So I'm going to say that we should really take the decision that this is not going to work quickly, this law. And I agree with my colleague Soko on this matter. Let me mention this, Mr. Secretary Keber mentioned that in America they are already collecting eye color and the like. Yeah, it's not in practice, but it is. There are also possibilities for you to choose the sex of your child and so on. However, this is still completely inconsequential, nor is it legally processed and I think it will take quite some time in such a country to sort, discuss and then adopt a law. But if we can't do something like this with us to rush into this marriage, I'm really worried that this is a political phenomenon that's not healthy for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Danica Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much again for your word. First, a replica or actually an explanation to Mr Franc Tsukati. Yes, I made a mistake, I was vowed because I was in a hurry to tell everything within the five minutes that was available to me, and so I'm afraid when I went back to remember that I even baptized Professor Dr. Tomaževič in Tomažič - I'm going to look at the magnetogram. In short, I would like to apologize for the mistake, for the lapsus, as my colleague Podobnik correctly stated and explained that the Chairman of the Commission on Medical Ethics, of course Prof. Dr. Trontel, is the President of the State Commission for OBMP. This lapsus does not, of course, change the fact that I mentioned in the name that Prof. Dr. Tomaževič stated on national television that all doctors and all nurses intend to object or to object to the conscience in relation to these procedures. And here I was wondering about ethics - colleague Brenčič - not the position of the ethics commission as such. I didn't get into this at all. I asked myself only about the ethics of the position, how can someone, on behalf of all employees in an institution, make such a statement on national television, if I know for sure that everyone who works there will not do so with certainty. That was all, or I did not comment on any point of view or opinion of the profession. That's one thing. Secondly, with regard to the objection of conscience, which he somehow wanted to impose on me in this regard, not negative in this respect, but the words, Comrade Peterle, would actually say just something. I mentioned yesterday that medicine has also entered a field that is not merely medical and, of course, should it bear now, if I may say so, the consequences of this decision. And I mentioned a case where, of course, a fertile woman who is married is allowed help with biomedical aid, whereas a fertile woman who is not in a marriage or marriage is not allowed to do so. So the doctors wanted to, you didn't want to, they also took on their own backs to decide the rights of the individual according to her condition. But what this has to do with medical ethics is, of course, another question again, and here I agree that I may have intervened in opposition to the conscience, but if memory doesn't deceive me, one of the basic ethical definitions is respect for the autonomy of a person, that is, a patient, one of the basic ethical definitions of medical ethics. And my personal opinion now; if someone refuses to fertilize any woman, then of course it violates her personal autonomy - as I spoke about yesterday and today. Once again, I believe that a doctor who, of course, has the right to exercise this conscientious objection is not a doctor who can then work with patients who need such services. It doesn't work together, not in our public health care or in the constitution as we have, and not least with the concept of ethics, as I understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. But I've got the bad luck of replicating the Lord Minister, and I've lost him. I am pleased that Mr Gaber is here, because at first I thought, or, at his first implementation, I did not want to replicate when he first called, but I would have wanted or, I feel compelled. It's a repetition of relativization, of the obliteration of the profession in this area, that medicine has exceeded this rubicon and is going into some political waters. However, I would warn everyone that the relationship between health care - patient, doctor - patient - is so delicate that it cannot be regulated only by laws and regulations and that very fine-tuning by the code of medical ethics is necessary. So from Hippocrates, which lived 400 years before our count, this knowledge developed, which is very exact, which is very binding to doctors and I would be happy if the doctors of this code were to follow it more than they did. I must say that it is also the right of the medical profession to regulate its relationship in the field of ethics and to lay down ethical rules only in the field of medicine, and this right has been confirmed several times by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Let me just say, in 1983, the Secretary-General of the United Nations wrote to Belgrade at the time, which, of course, as in all Eastern countries, in principle violated and overcame this right of the medical profession to write and follow the code of conscience, that is, the desire of all totalitarian regimes to master medicine, such as the police. And then the Secretary-General of the United Nations wrote: "The Secretary-General of the United Nations expresses his respect for the Permanent Representative of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the United Nations and has the honour to remind the Government of his Excellency of resolution 37/194 under the principle of medical ethics adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 1982. In the annex we provide you with a copy of the resolution together with the text of the principles." These principles have been adopted by a global health association, where perhaps 10% of the representatives of Catholic countries. I'm warning you, maybe 10%. Not to attribute these ethical principles only to churches, Catholic mentalities, and the like. It's a far deeper ethical human problem. The Secretary-General of the United Nations further says: "We would like to draw particular attention to the position of His Excellency Government on the second resolution in which the United Nations Assembly requires all governments to give the widest possible publicity to the principles of medical ethics." And the Ethical Affairs Commission has established its reputation and has made it clear that this is a matter of rights for an unborn child. When our text, the text of your proposal is so complete that I will feel and that we will all feel the child's protection, let it also be born to a single woman, but that she will be protected, that her rights will be protected, and that she will not be at the forefront of her desire for motherhood, but that the child's anticipated desire under normal circumstances will be no longer a problem when it is guaranteed. However, the current text does not guarantee this. That is why I am joining all these institutions and the secretariat of legislation - I do not know with what right we are relativising it to the level of civil society - to return this matter as an inadequate basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I would like to refer to my fellow Member, Gabra, as to the excess or that certain professions have gone beyond their competences. If we look at this paper or the opinion of the President of the State Commission of the OBMP, we will read it carefully, and we will see that there is no excess or that it has gone through this, on the contrary, it has adhered strictly. And what do I want to emphasize in my own words? That we collected statements, opinions, expert opinions from different professions. After all, the secretariat also mentioned, and the legal profession raised serious concerns. On the other hand, we see that the medical profession has made serious medical concerns about the adoption of such a law. Ethics committees against admission have also been identified; more could be said. Mr. Gaber, we're both sociologists. We need to be aware of the extent to which socioscience is the subject of its processing, the extent to which it can be measured and what cannot be measured; we know this well. It's very difficult to evaluate sociologically, values in a sense that's better. Sociologically, we can do a good analysis of the families. I don't deny that there are different families and it's possible to measure them by what and what we want to measure, right? I have previously submitted a proposal that is not only a premise, but also a conclusion, an expert conclusion, that families with one parent are in an economically poor position. That's a fact. On this basis, social policy and all social transfers are based. That's why we also have science to figure out - that's one, so we can figure out, on the basis of the postulated criterion, the rate of income and the number of members, on the basis of this, we'll find a smaller one. That's what I wanted to give as an example. While this is not essential, it is irrelevant, and I stress once again to reject this law. Because many other more important arguments are essential to reject this law. We can also analyze the Roman society. Most people tended to think and values that homosexuality is at a high level, that children as such have a position, we know where this society came from. As a sociologist, I'm going to analyze this family and I'm going to tell her and I'm going to tell her what the path or what the goal is and what were the key reasons that led to this. That's a fact. After all, we will have to make a decision based on the ethical opinions, the legal opinions that we have received, the medical ones that are very clear, and that is up to us. Also based on the value orientation. It is also based on this, which is why politics is based on this. But I will decide on my values on the basis of these professional opinions given to me by those most relevant to give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u59	The following replica, Mr. Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I'm going to replicate Dr. Gabru's colleague. At that time, I note that my colleague Peterlet's unvoted proposal has also been confirmed, and among us again is Mr Minister. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Gabra in the subject of the question of profession. Mr Minister also spoke on this issue in his speech. The question of where and when the profession hid itself in the aura of its expertise and exceeded its area is particularly true in the field of medicine. I'd try to distinct. I would also, in part, dispute here with the position of the Minister. Mr. Secretary said it's a political space and it's a professional space. However, where the profession is advertised within some of its institutions, it is highly qualified as a civil society to enter this public discourse. Somehow that's how I understood your position. But there's something I'd like to warn you about. When the Commission for Insemination with Biomedical Assistance, at the request of the Minister, gives its own expert opinion, this is more than just the opinion of an expert group or some association. Thus, this position, which even has a basis in the law, becomes an integral part of the procedure, even when the law changes. And it has a different weight. We have here the opinion of the Medical Ethics Commission, where the introduction says she was asked for an opinion. This attitude also has a different weight, an important weight. Indeed, I first understood Dr. Gabra, in that he had mainly been embroiled with some of the views of experts who had been recorded in the public media. That's an open question. Even if it is true, Professor Tomaževič, as Mrs Danica Simšič says, spoke on behalf of all health workers, but he does not have this mandate. If that's what he was talking about at the gynecology clinic. But this is the position of him as an individual. This led to a public controversy, and he also highlighted himself. But when he signs the board's opinion, he's got a different weight. So, Mr. Gaber, that's one question. But I want to know where you are in the opinion of the Medical Ethics Commission, I warn you, this is the Medical Ethics Commission. Wider area. He was very qualified to talk about this, respected colleague Tsukati, what is this area at all, where you found slips from purely medical questions to some other. Perhaps where this Commission cites the position of the Dutch Commission for the Equality of Health Rights, which has, on its own initiative, examined whether there is unjustified discrimination in the exercise of the OBMP in the country. That's a commission quote. It has been shown that some centres in a country that is very liberal with regard to health rights reject assistance to women who do not have a partner because they do not want to act against the benefit of the child. The Commission considered this to be an objectively justified case of discrimination. There is no evidence that growing up in a single - parent family is not harmful to a child. That's how she agreed with the center principle "if you're in doubt, don't do that." So here the Commission for Medical Ethics cited the position or practice of one of its partners, but this is the second, this is the Commission for Equality of Rights in the Netherlands. Then there are other opinions or opinions given by professional associations. This one has a different weight. Members and Members are read and affected by our decision or not. We have here the opinion of the Slovenian Medical Society, which addressed its opinion to the distinguished Mrs Jožica Velišček, by the way, who assessed that Mrs Veliščkova was the one who then shared this opinion with all Members and Members of Parliament. In particular, it opposes the rapid procedure and says that the Slovenian medical service, which has a centuries-old tradition, has some concerns, serious concerns. We already have the opinion of the Medical Chamber mentioned here. Mr Minister, you have previously been somewhat defamed by the procedure itself, as the Slovenian Medical Chamber of Slovenia has defined itself to its point of view. But this is where he signed, the president's written down, it's got some weight. If any of the members of the Medical Chamber felt that the procedure was incorrect or that it was undemocratic, they should also make a public presentation. That's it. And we also have one of the opinions. Prof. Karl Zupančič's opinion is an extensive, recognised Slovenian expert on family law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Ašić has the floor. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I applied with a replica to Mr Bernik's replica, but I can also replicate the content to Mr. Podobnik, who is just leaving the hall. My opinion is that too much is not wrong, but we are putting too much emphasis on dealing with this law professionally. Such and different views of the profession. What is right is not right, however, because we do not know the opinion of those women who expect this law to solve their problems. We don't have an opinion of an expert who agrees with the law. We have an opinion of an expert who disagrees with the law. We have the opinion of various civil society organisations. However, tell me which woman who for various reasons cannot give birth, but I would like to give birth and, in our society, this is not considered a particularly good card and a good quality of this woman, is willing to be attached to some society, to some civil society organisation and to perform here before this Parliament with her opinion. Unfortunately, we are such a society that we are not yet so far away that the opinions of those who are known in some numbers could also be presented here and this would be a scale and this is the part where I wanted to replicate Mr Bernik, who suggested that we stop the debate and that we go to a broad public hearing of this law. What will happen to us in a broad public discussion of this law? It's exactly the same as it is here in Parliament. A profession that supports against a profession that does not support. Where are the users, and those women who want to have a baby can't do it for one reason or another? Will you come to these public presentations of opinions? They won't, believe me. And through their opinions they will be mediated, through the mouth of those who, of course, somehow understand the problem, but not the same as if they could be presented by a directly interested person or wife. There was talk of a news contract. Once again, we forget that it can be corrective in this law to object to conscience in those women, women who cannot give birth. Only those who are firmly convinced that they want to have a child, that they can have it and that they will offer it all that society and everyone expects the mother to offer and must offer to the child what she decides to do. And with her, there will also be opposition to women's conscience and many will not take such a step because she will have doubts, whether ethical or purely practical, because this is actually a matter of great responsibility. And a thorough reflection on each of the women will be needed before she decides that this commission will be able to deal with her case. In large dilemmas in individuals who will think about it. And the right of children to be incorporated into this law. If we did, it would be better if we did not adopt the law, because at the same time we would have two kinds of children, one protected by all the legislation we adopt in this House, and the other, who would have some special status at birth, because they were born different. I think that we would make a fundamental and the greatest difference precisely if we specifically highlighted the rights of children born in accordance with and under the terms of this law. Children's rights must be the same for all children born in Slovenia, and this is so quality that they do not cause much difference, although we know that this is not entirely possible in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you. The replica has Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What I had in mind when I was talking about the question of inadequacy, the fetishisation of the opinion of one profession or the work of the profession - that was actually a question. I would not try to respond to this once again at the principle level. And I would like to point out this to my colleague, Mr Podobnik, who has just returned, that I had in mind, with regard to the opinion of the Commission, which has been forwarded to Members and Members, the position that begins on page 3 of this record and then develops, more or less fully, even the philosophy of the family that these people have here and believe is the right one. But it's the least questionable whether she's the only one. It begins: "The Commission has determined by a large majority that a child who is supposed to be conceived with biomedical assistance is entitled to a father." This may be a good position, it may be questionable, but certainly not a medical position, it is a position outside the field. "It should be pointed out that it is not only a father's social role, but also the psychological need of an adult child by identity and by the example he develops into a person. The right to an identity is also one of the fundamental human rights." I read everything from this point of view, and I go on to say: "It is true that this position can be counter-claimed that we can only talk about more or less the likelihood that a child without a father will be unacceptablely disadvantaged. The Medical Ethics Commission is also aware of the regrettable fact that as many as a third of today's children are disadvantaged for one of the parents." And so on and so forth. I am not saying that, by definition, they are controversial; this can be discussed. But I'm saying that these are, by definition, attitudes that are wider than those that merodically can say anything serious about medicine. To claim that it is regrettable that they are being deprived of one of the parents - my modest opinion is that in some people it is true, but fortunately some have had a divorce and no more suffering in this family. That's what my profession would say about a text like that, at least I'd ask. And that's all I'm talking about. Don't make it look like someone's being treated like a monolith, who's already said her thing and moving strictly within the professional framework, while others are politicizing. It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u65	Replica, Mrs. Shirca. Then there's Mr. Brenčič and Mrs. Simšič. That's the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u66	The replica is an hour old, but for the execution of Mr. Tuckati. At the same time, I would like to take a few extras. We just heard, Mr. Gaber says it's not just one profession. And in fact, in this law, I'm going to say you're fighting, you're meeting, or you're standing by, and on different sides, different professions. Today, I will say that Parliament is primarily dealing with values, an area that is certainly not its own. He's got ethics, he's dealing with sociology. After all, can we also ask at this time how many fathers in Slovenia today are willing to take parental leave? 0.0's almost there. In short, there is not 1% in all of Slovenia if I say we are also dealing with sociology. We deal with ethics, we deal with philosophy, we deal with darvinism, if we try a little more, we can also deal with the first fertilization of the so-called creation of man or anyone else, even his nature, whether it's clever or not. I do not think that we should go beyond one question that has been raised or has already been raised on the Committee, the Legal Affairs Secretariat and the legislation have highlighted the legal consequences of paternity that happen in the case of fertility, fruitful or infertile women. And I would like to point out that we have already found on the Committee this question, which was here today or the answer to this question, which was again raised by Mr Tsukati here today. In short, what happens to that child who does not have the so-called legal definition and the law-defined father. The secretariat believes that such a child is born without a father, in short, one that can be acquired only when adopted by a man with the Institute of Complete Adoption. And under this circumstance, as long as this law is passed, some children remain in a deprived situation. I'll point out right away what I said in the beginning, how the professions get mixed up here. Something that is legal can immediately be completely different, not to say a valuable ethical and philosophical aspect, a question that can finally get the answer that it is better not to have such children because they are deprived of the higher-a-vis to those who have fathers, regardless of what they are. But how open the answers are here, to illustrate that even the child of the woman who was raped and who did not receive and acquire the father by legal logic is deprived in the sense that she is already in violation of the law if I am in compliance with legal standards, although she does not, I will say, the right to exist. And even in those cases where men, when they go to the parent office when they sign paternity, cancel paternity, at the same time put their children in a deprived position, which we are now looking for only and only as a result of instances of women who want to meet motherhood in the same way as a particular civilization, but not necessarily, what other natural path has been put in place. I would like once again, however, to decide one thing as soon as possible and not to open up questions that we may not be partial to them or simply refer to those that have been answered in a partial way on behalf of the profession in this case. To decide on the right to freely decide women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich. He's quitting. Then Mrs. Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u68	Just for a little while. Mr Bernik said that we should open a broad public debate and that we have a long time to discuss this issue. In principle, yes, but who has the time. We might. Maybe someone else. What about those 400 couples I mentioned earlier, they've been waiting years for their chance. And this number, of course, can grow even stronger in the following. And explain to my colleague Ašić, who asks that we have not heard and that we do not know the voice of the beneficiaries or beneficiaries of these procedures. In fact, we know each other very well. Some colleagues have already listed the intervention of individual groups with Members, Members and Members of the groups. I would only briefly summarize the letter that we have also received from the society for greater fertility and fertility of Slovenians, which warns that these procedures have not been running for seven years, that of course they have put individual couples together, that there are couples in a very harsh situation, and in this case men may be privileged, because women in this segment have a biological clock that runs out much earlier than men. And what are we going to say to these 100 and 100 people who are waiting for a decision and the possibility that they will still apply their wishes, dreams and parenthood, that we will take the next five, seven, ten years, and that they will never be able to become parents with the help that this country can provide them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u69	Replica, Mr. Peterle. That's the last replica. And then the debate, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u70	Look, there's a lot of lines coming up again, but I'd say this about the profession. Look, the more we discuss, the more elements, the more perspectives, the bigger the dimension. And I've read again what's available, and I can see that we haven't really touched some things yet. And there's a little demagogies now that wait for so many and so many couples. Those who are for treatment have in law sufficient grounds for all procedures to fail. You know exactly what we are talking about or what we are rejecting. We reject the instrumentation of a medical profession for technical services paid by the State to choose healthy people. So, a single woman who doesn't want to, we'll say, in a traditional way, we get the right by this law that doctors have to fertilize her, let's say, domestically, with imported seeds. It is, you will say, her right, because she has the right to be single, as such, to have a child as such, as such, has the right under this law to require the State to pay her, for whatever it costs, or whatever. We're talking about a special category that was just introduced here as it was. It's been said or it's going to be about the baby as therapy. We are also not in favour of instrumentalising the child in this sense and we are in favour of his rights. This thing - said Ambassador Shirtz that the profession spoke in part. Every profession speaks in part. We're talking part-time, God help me, it's always gonna be like this. Therefore, it is more important that we look at these partial aspects as closely as possible and then come to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u71	There's a copy of Dr. Keber's minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u72	Perhaps I will use the last debate for a message that I have not mentioned before. For purely certain reasons, we talk with the thought behind that it is some in half pathological people who need to be treated in a psychiatrist or those who have chosen this singleness. It is true that in a particular case it is also a choice, perhaps also by nature, which prepares an individual to decide on, for example, the same sexual inclination. But secondly, it is not either conservative or liberal policy that society develops in this direction, but that we become more alienated; that we cannot see that this is a process around the world; that there are women here, in this country, and men who are scheming in a relationship, but do not come into a relationship, not because they are defending it, but because they are not in a relationship, they want to have a relationship, they do not come to this, and they want to have children. There was no debate on that today. Even you, though few, are covered by this right, the ones who naturally choose it. No one imposes it on those who find it unnatural. So I'd say again, with this additional explanation of mine, it's not about what you choose from the profession. I told you where the splinter is - that's part of the answer to Ambassador Tsukati if I read the magnetogram correctly. It's not about choosing the "a la carte" that the profession offers you, but that you have to be able as a political judge to see where the profession is in the field of expertise and when it came to an area where every citizen has the right to judge. It is certain that certain groups in this country are more competent and that their advice needs to be followed, but that is not necessarily and is not unwarranted. Let's think - I don't want to abuse it, of course - but let's think about how we are and still explain each other's composition of the Constitutional Court differently when it comes to eminent legal issues. This Parliament is discussing in one way or another, in part, such conclusions. It's about living this way. And the same goes for the chamber. I will not open, at any time, there are people in the leadership of professional associations who have a certain value and political conviction in addition to professional knowledge. Otherwise, when I announce that the Chamber has unilaterally and fully supported the need for doctors to increase their salaries, I will present this to Parliament when we talk about the budget. It is, therefore, that we must make this distinction and learn that we are today discussing a matter that affects ten, twenty women and that this question is not going to work, but the questions are highly eminent. When we answer that question, we either solve it at the same time or offer an opportunity to those who want to take it. That's all there is to this law. But everything else is, of course, a debate to strengthen the position of those who are against and the position of those who are in favour. Let me remind you, despite the fact that the question is whether it is a credible study, but there are also some messages if we are today performing how the chamber is, despite the fact that it has only raised its hands and has not debated and received this point without notice, under the urgency of its meeting. But if this is a professional opinion, then let me just say that yesterday or before yesterday's analysis is a public opinion that has shown that almost 50%, that is significantly more than those against, supports this position to help women also who are fertile in certain exceptional cases, which says that the population is communicating something to their politicians. I'm not going to argue that this is a question, I'm going to repeat it, I'm not going to argue that this is a question that people are asking at the referendum. Same thing when I think we can't ask people about the death penalty at the referendum. But there's also an opinion. You can take it into account, or you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u73	The replica of Mrs. Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'm replicating, too, in terms of what the profile of these women is. And I'd like to read a letter that I received this morning between the mail with a name and a last name that I don't want to say for protection, but it says so. "I am writing to support the law you wish to enforce regarding the fertilization of single women. I would like to tell you that in mentioning the profile of a woman who would need a "voluntarily" fertilization, I would like to stress that this is a profile of a woman who, during her study, work and resolution of her own existence during her fertile period of birth, has literally forgotten her intimacy and privacy, because her life has lingered without her remembering her own original desire and the purpose of becoming a mother. I think there's a lot of women like that that we kind of gave up on ourselves to please others. I mean, it's not some sick woman I've noticed that they want to introduce her to in some discussions. It is a perfectly healthy woman, without bad experience with men, but for a woman whose fertile ability has gone a long way into a mature period, such as the truth with me." This is the letter I have here, and you can see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you. The debate, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u76	I thank you for your word! And I'd basically like to ask you, what's the replica of reading the letter? We do have an institute to apply for the debate, but not so much as to play a replica that someone reads a letter, no matter what its content is, whether it is the author's work or maybe it's from somewhere else. I do not believe that in today's debate or debate we will convince each other. I believe that all of us sitting in this assembly have long been determined how we will vote. Nor is my intention to convince any of you anymore, because you are sure, but it is possible that if you all took the right to repeat yesterday's views in today's debate, to repeat others' opinions, to shape them better, I will do so too. In the Slovenian national party, we share a single opinion from which our decision is also based. It's simple that a child is not a psychiatrist. Do not build or treat the problems of individuals in this society. He is a child and must be the greatest value in this society, so let us see that this value will be a natural value. This follows the view of the Slovenian national party. It's a natural gift. Don't play. One of the speakers - I think he came from the Social Democratic Party, but forgive me, because I don't know who he was - was wonderfully directing the steps of this new modernisation and playing with human lives. He showed that the matter would lead us so far that we would ask ourselves in the same congregation about human cloning over a period of time. And that's when it'll all seem normal. The law that we face today with change is what we have in this country. This law formally allows fertilisation, artificial fertilisation to couples, married couples and those in the extramarital community. And whoever in this room claimed otherwise that he was waiting for so many and so many couples to fertilize, he did not say the right things. Today we meet only with the law of change, which brings about one major change, is a single woman's dictatorship. In a number of ways, this leads you to achieve that a single woman’s term or that a synonym for single women will also be a sick woman. In fact, we are meeting with the law on the treatment of infertility. Of course, the mass in the Slovenian national party about the law itself disturbs a lot of things, from the fact that in the introduction, the written introduction summed up the discussions on the mother's labour body and thus continued to achieve what you are trying to tell us that you do not want to, but only one of the political farcees in this national assembly. If your intention was to do anything for the population, for a better family, we would raise the standard for this country, and we certainly did not play with one of the most sensitive topics with which this mandate, and unfortunately also at the end of the previous term, this National Assembly is meeting. In your explanation, you gave examples of Europe. Of course, you give us these cases when they suit you and also one of the speakers, I think it was around 11:00, he told you that these arguments don't apply either. You probably copied them from the Internet or something like that, but a little more serious with such an important law that touches the basic matter of life. And, of course, we must not forget the profession. Regrettably, the majority in this national assembly rely on their expertise when it suits them. When there is a different opinion, that basic argument is used, you know, but real experts do not hope because they fear their superiors. It's very sad for such an important marriage. We sincerely hope that the law in the National Assembly will not be adopted. We have an existing law and the existing law allows what we consider to be a value in a Slovenian national party. It's a perfect family. And for the end, two things. What will happen to, say, sex cells where, after the explanation of article 8 of the proposed law, it will not be possible to determine where they come from and, let's say, the child will be different from what you wanted him to be. These are important issues, and a small sea of such questions is emerging. As they are, the child will be left alone, already predetermined that he has a much greater chance of staying an orphan than in a family where two, a father and a mother are involved. So given that I've already said that, and given that time is running out, since I don't believe anyone else in this room can get a different opinion than they do now. This law will bring us a degree closer to promoting homosexuality in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much. It's 1:00. And we're adjourning the session of the State Holiday Assembly. At 2.30 p.m., proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u78	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since this is still a meeting of the Committee on Finance, I propose that we wait another moment for our colleagues to join us. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Given that Parliament's work is certainly ahead of the work of the working body, we will continue to do so. I respectfully ask that with your neighbors who have their cards in place, you see that they may not exhibit a false presence so that we can determine the conclusion. But I already have a message that our colleagues from the Finance Committee will be joining us any minute now that they've finished their work. There are other colleagues coming from the committee. I'm asking them to put the cards in, too, because we're going to be able to determine the presence. I kindly ask my colleagues and colleagues who have finished their work on the Finance Committee to join us, because the monitor shows that the State Assembly is still open. I think the situation is already different, so let's take a look at the presence. There are 49 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. In this morning's work, we stopped the general debate, namely, we discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for artificial fertilisation with biomedical assistance. Since discussions and replicas have also been exhausted in the morning, I ask the National Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues whether anyone else would like to discuss them? Because it does not want to, I am concluding a general debate in this part. We are still obliged to vote on the procedural proposal, namely, the Member, Mr Janez Podobnik, proposed that the second and third consideration of the bill be carried out on a regular basis. Does anyone want a word about this? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u79	I am sure that the debate itself has shown the rationale for this proposal. If at any time, it is now an opportunity for the National Assembly to rarely take advantage of this possibility and to carry out the second and third examinations on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u81	We think that yesterday and today so many different opinions have been presented in the National Assembly that it would make sense that the debate is indeed being held in a normal process and that it is also an opportunity for professions to further prepare and bring arguments and, of course, make us aware of them. We think that a quick procedure would be really pointless and inappropriate. Therefore, we also propose that the law be adopted in accordance with the normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Mr Aloise Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment or this proposal. I myself, just before I arrived at the second part of our session, met our correspondent from Paris, who said that the French Parliament had already suspended the decision twice on this because of the many dilemmas that appear on this subject, and even there, I would say, this matter is not easy. And we are not doing ourselves a favor by making a quick decision on this subject, nor would our parliamentary group wish that the profession in this law would have little or no validity whatsoever or look at it seriously. So we are very supportive of taking the time to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Sašo Peče, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u85	Your Honor! At the time of the adoption of the agenda, we announced our disagreement with the swift procedures. In this particular case, we do not see the need that the applicant has explained as a reason for the speedy procedure. In addition, it should be pointed out that, at the moment, on the basis of the debate that has been held and on the basis of the content of all the debates, you agree that this is one of the most important substantive areas that really touch the content of human life, and that is to say, we are meeting with the law in the second and third readings. We support Mr Podobnik's proposal in the Slovenian national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group of young Slovenia's parties, Mr Levič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Our party also supports the proposal to carry out a normal procedure, and thus gives the government the opportunity to convince us, if they have good arguments, you can convince us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Please choose a procedural proposal on behalf of the Joint List Group, Mrs Danica Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The group of Members of the Joint List of the proposed procedural proposal will not support it. I would just like to re-explain why. Simply because the rights to procedures with biomedical assistance are already very reserved and they have in fact been resting for 7 years. The discussions are ongoing and we find it very difficult to believe that the debate over the next month could solve all the problems some have, and we cannot possibly agree that we are waiting for the solutions to continue indefinitely in the coming years. We therefore want this law to be definitively adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Since the procedural proposal has been made by the parliamentary groups that wanted to do so, I am putting the proposal to the vote. The proposal for a second and third examination of the bill is to be carried out on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. There were 33 votes against 37. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Free 37.]] I note that the procedural proposal for the second and third hearings to be carried out on a regular basis has not been adopted. That's why we're moving on to second reading. To discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 30. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Free 30.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The proposal was not accepted, I apologize. We will therefore go from article to article, and also under the individual articles to which the amendments have been tabled, we will discuss the article and the amendment tabled at the same time. In addition to the review of the amendments, I would advise my fellow Members and colleagues to do so. 4. They also prepare the text of the articles they have in order to make it easier for us to discuss. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1 and on the two amendments that have been tabled in Article 1. The amendment under 1 is an amendment to the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy and to the disabled, which the Government supports. It's an amendment to the government's amendment. Under 2 is the basic amendment of the government, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the first amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 24. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. It's 36 votes to 21. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 1 is therefore completely amended. In explanation to Mr Rupar - before we went to the decision-making process, I put Article 1 and the two amendments into the debate and decision-making and I called on the honourable Members to debate. No one answered. You didn't come forward to explain the voice when we went to the First Amendment decision. Please, I'll speak slower so you can follow. We are moving on to debate and decision-making for the new 1.a article, which is on sheet number 2 of the review, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision: we are deciding on an amendment for a new Article 1.a. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. The vote was 39, against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the amendment for the new Article 1a has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 1.b Article, of which the committee is the proposer, is supported by the amendment for a new 1.b Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 39, against 28. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the amendment to the new Article 1.b has been adopted. We are moving on to the text of the articles of the basic law, Article 2 of the law to which no amendments have been tabled. I'm putting in a debate and a decision on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on Article 2. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 39, against 28. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We're going back to the amendment review. I shall put Article 3 and the two amendments to Article 3 into the debate and decision-making. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the government, which is proposed by the committee, the government supports the amendment to the government's amendment. Under 2 is an amendment of the government supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It was 37 votes against 28. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 24. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the amendment under 2 has been adopted and Article 3 has been completely amended. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 of which the applicant is the Government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 25. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 4 has been fully amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5 of which the Government is proposing. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 25. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 5 has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6 of which the Government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 39, against 26. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 6a, of which the Committee is the proposer. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 36 votes against 24. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 7 and the three amendments to Article 7, namely, the amendment of the amendment to the Government under order number 1 of the Committee; the amendment of the amendment to the amendment is supported by the Government. Subsequent number 2 is the basic amendment of the government supported by the mother's working body. Under number 3, there is an amendment of the government supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 37 to 25. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We move to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 25. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on amendment number three. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 33 votes to 23. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With the adoption of all three amendments, Article 7 is also fully amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 7a, of which the Committee is proposing, the amendment is supported by the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 36 votes to 20. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 8 and on the two amendments to Article 8. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the government, whose proposer is the committee. The amendment government supports it. Under 2 is the basic amendment of the government, whose proposer is the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? First of all, Mr. Peterle, please. And then Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction to the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, we read in the fifth paragraph on page 4 in the preceding sentence: The most controversial provision is that a doctor must determine whether the donor or donor is still alive before entering the body of the female sex cell, donor or early embryo. This provision proved to be completely lifeless, since in the case of gifted sex cells coming from abroad, it is almost impossible to determine whether the donor is still alive at that moment. It's an introduction or an explanation. The solution that most people want to accept, however, is described in Article 8: The OBMP is prohibited with the sexual cells of a donor or donor who, at the time of the introduction of the gifted sex cells or early embryos into the body of a woman on the basis of known facts, may conclude that they are no longer alive. I would ask here, for the first time, do you see, the proponents, in this line between this solution and the justification. Second, whether we can take into account unknown facts or how we come to know the facts. The explanation may reveal that it is difficult to determine whether the donor or the donor is still alive. I don't see any explanation for what the criteria of the donor's vitality are now. Is the seed of the egg less valuable now, or what would you say? I want to know why all of a sudden there's such an intrusion of ethics into this matter. Here. But the argument is completely different than the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, the government is proposing an amendment that completely amends the article. We are now discussing the amendment to Article 8. The government is proposing an amendment. The amendment is proposed by the Committee. I would have a question for the Minister. The fact is that the content of this amendment is very sensitive and complex. It's a matter of donor tissue. There was quite a talk about this in the debate, and that is what Dr Merlo’s colleague was talking about. Interestingly, this new amendment has three paragraphs. The explanation, however, is one single, bare sentence that we have received. The proposed amendment provides a legal basis for the import of sex cells that would be needed if it turns out that it is not possible to obtain an adequate number of donors in Slovenia. However, the National Assembly should be aware of the facts. So, how's it going? It's a conditioner, three times a conditioner. However, I would ask the representative of the government how I would explain this amendment without these necessary three preconditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision and the government representative wants to respond? [[...]] Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u95	Madam Vice President! I'd like to ask for a five-minute recess so that we can all know what we're discussing together. I have the impression that my colleague Peterle was talking about another subject. On my question too, Mr Minister did not know exactly where we were and I suggest a five-minute break or a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We are adjourning the meeting at 3.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u97	Please kindly insert the cards and find out if we're locked. However, my colleagues would like to see if their colleagues who have their cards inserted are present. Your Honor, I respectfully ask you to join us so we can continue our work. Given that the monitor shows that there are 40 of us present, we are certainly 46 here, so I kindly ask my respectable colleagues who are here, and the cards are not inserted to insert it, because such games actually prevent the normal work of the National Assembly. However, the obstruction can also be announced publicly and this is a much more suitable and business-foreseeable way of not being in the hall. 41 Members and Members are present, which means that the National Assembly is not concluded and cannot take a valid decision. We will repeat the observation of presence, as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Before we re-ciprocate, I respectfully request that your colleagues present insert your cards into the place where your presence is identified. After manual reading, we have found that there are over 60 of us in the hall, so once again politely ask that those who are present insert cards into the slot to determine the presence as we normally do. This, however, shows an unnecessary degree of frivolity. Since we are serious and grown - up people in this room, the rules of procedure do not provide for such card playing. [[The voices in the background.]] Since my call didn't run into fertile soil, I'm rediscovering the presence! Despite the fact that there are over 60 Members in the Chamber, 44 are present, which means that in 10 minutes I am interrupting the work of the National Assembly. We'll pick it up at 3:37.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u98	Let's get back to work. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to Rule 44c of the Rules of Procedure, which considers the absence of a Member to be an unjustified absence when the third determination is made. Please insert the cards because we have a presence. There are 48 Members and Members present. I take it that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We suspended the session at Article 8. I would like to make the following explanation to the esteemed National Assembly. Mr Peterle discussed and discussed Article 8 of the basic bill. Mr Podobnik, however, began the discussion on the two amendments you have in the review at sheet number 7, under number 1 of the amendment to the amendment of the Government for the new Article 8a and under number 2 of the amendment of the Government, the text for the new Article 8a is missing. Thus, both amendments to sheet number 7 of the review refer to the new Article 8a, namely the basic amendment of the Government creating Article 8a and the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the Government amending it. This is how we return and open up the debate that Mr Loize Peterle started on Article 8 of the Act, which is in the basic law and which is not in the review, since Article 8 was basically not amended. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 8 of the Act. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Free 13.]] I note that Article 8 is fully adopted. Now we are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments - what I have explained earlier - and they are on sheet number 7 of the amendment review. Here Mr Janez Podobnik opened the debate earlier and I am reopening the debate. Mr. Secretary would like to make an explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on amendment number one on sheet number seven. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 41 to 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Free 21.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 41 to 25. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Free 25.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. With this we have a new Article 8a. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 9 and on the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. So it's not just about Article 9, but I have a chance because we're talking about a partner again and a woman without a partner. And I would like to remind you that you are respected colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. [[...]] I would like to remind you that you have already made a mistake in Article 1 and have accepted an article that is of itself and in its content in great contrast. In the fourth paragraph, you wrote: "The mutual marriage or the extramarital community must exist at the time of the introduction of cells etc. "So you made a conditional statement that it must exist. In the following sentence, however, you allowed the possibility that a woman without a partner may be entitled to treatment for infertility by OBMP procedures. So the first sentence I read doesn't apply. Because that's where you wrote that it must be one or the other, and then you threw it away. Thus, in my opinion - I hope that the legal department will also confirm this - everything you have accepted, you have taken wrongly and, of course, by doing so by my assessment invalid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u101	Madam Vice President, thank you for your floor. I would just like to point out that the whole, now Article 1, which amends Article 5, is now completely amended by the amendment of the Government and that, of course, this text is also of different importance in the context of the new Article. It just defines sometimes, or the identification of a marriage or an extramarital community, which, of course, also has meaning in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u103	I don't agree with this interpretation. Now, either delete both sentences, then make one new sentence, where you will list the extramarital, marital and female without anything, or, then, you just have to do something. They're not in agreement with each other, they're in conflict. This is the fact that where you wrote that you must, you cannot, because it excludes, the word must, exclude the next sentence. I'm just warning you, because it's possible for you to do well, because I don't care, I don't cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u105	Madam Vice President, the House of Honor. I would just add that the next paragraph uses the word as well. Following the amendment to the amendment, it is now stated: When the second paragraph of this Article is applied, a woman without a partner is also entitled to treatment for infertility by OBMP procedures. A new beneficiary shall be designated in this paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. Mr Rupar, we are actually having a debate on the amendment to Articles 9 and 9. In fact, you are opening an article that is already closed at second reading by the time it was adopted. Since no one else wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We decide on the amendment to Article 9. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 40 Members and Members voted against 26. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 9 has been fully amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10. The amendment is proposed by the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes to 23. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 10a, whose proposer is the committee; the amendment is supported by the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 22. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 10.b Article, of which the committee is the proposer. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 24. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 11 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Committee and supported by the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 41 to 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. Mr. Peterle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u107	Excuse me! I guess I missed article 11, it was already a vote, right? Is there still a debate on Article 11?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u108	We have already voted on Article 11. Thank you. We go back to the basic text of the article, which is Article 12, which regulates the validity of the law and is found in the basic text. So I am putting Article 12 into the debate and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 40 votes to 21. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that Article 12 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the title of the law. The bill was also accompanied by the amendment you have in your review on sheet number 9. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 41 votes to 22. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Free 22.]] I take it that the amendment to the title of the law was adopted. We are moving on to a full vote on the title of the law. Mr. Squirrel, do you want to discuss it? Here you go. Dr. Bajuk, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group and in conjunction with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to state that Nova Slovenija has decided not to cooperate and will obstruct the adoption of this law for all the reasons that we have already explained over these long hours. Well, the truth is, the rules of procedure will now be abandoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Someone would like to discuss Mr. Sugar, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u111	Likewise, our Group of Members predicts a business obstruction because we cannot agree with the procedure and with all the content that has not been taken into account. We're leaving the National Assembly at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Other colleagues and colleagues Mr. Sašo Pece, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u113	Unfortunately, because of the lack of compliance with quality laws, the failure of government parties to comply with this unpopular measure is also forced in the Slovenian National Party, but given that this is the only option in this National Assembly for an opinion to be heard, we also announce obstruction of this part of the meeting in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u115	The Young Slovenia Party also exploits this business rule with obstruction and leaves the meeting because of the rapid procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We're in the process of discussing the title of the law. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the title of the law. I find that there are 45 Members present and I find another way to be present! [[...]] There are 46 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly can continue its work. We vote on the title of the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1, 1a, 1b, 3, 4, 5, 6, 6a, 7, 8, 8a, 9, 10a, 10b, 11 and 12. The title of the law is also open. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[No, no, ……]] I ask, on the basis of Rule 198(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the law as a whole.Explanation of the vote. Mr. Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It will most likely be rare in this call in the National Assembly to leave the meeting by a group of Members and Members, four of them. I was elected as a Member to sit here in this house and fight with arguments. Today, in my opinion, a big mistake has been made not to take into account a very corrective proposal for a second and third hearing to be carried out by the National Assembly in accordance with the normal procedure. We also said in our parliamentary group that we would be willing to participate properly and professionally in some other possible changes to the law itself. Since you have made a different decision, the majority in the National Assembly is always right, in a business sense, and the question is, if in substance, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would ask for half an hour's rest before the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. At the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I interrupt the meeting and give them a decision break until 4:30 p.m. when the National Assembly decides on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u119	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues who are near the hall and have not announced that they will obstruct this item of the agenda, I ask you to kindly join us so that we can begin our work. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let's get back to work. I'm asking Mr. Squirrel if he wants to explain. I'm sorry. Let me see if I can get a hold of you! There are 48 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. Mr. Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The delegation took advantage of these short 30 minutes and decided on the following. We would like to inform our fellow Members and colleagues that, as a party, we have always supported all the solutions that have enabled the progress of biomedical science to help all those who are in trouble in this area. That is also why we supported solutions in the current law. In the parliamentary group, we express our support for the treatment of those single women who are not fertile. The term "selfness" doesn't mean negative stigmatization. However, I would like to say that, in our view, in view of the unnecessary rejection of a well-intentioned initiative to adopt the law in a way that would be used after this treatment, otherwise a very rare business opportunity has been taken up, despite the fact that the law has been adopted in a rapid procedure, so the procedure laid down in the agenda is to be followed by a second and third treatment on a regular basis. We wanted to participate constructively and very responsibly in these two procedures as a party with our experts. In our view, some of the provisions already adopted could be supplemented. We were aware that there were three important themes. The issue of facilitating treatment and artificial fertilisation also in cases where both partners are infertile. Here are the solutions that we estimate are close to optimal. Another issue is the import of sex cells or the issue of donor tissues. This is a very sensitive question. In our opinion, it could be further developed. This has also been demonstrated by the debate. The third topic, which was crucial and has already been distributed by the National Assembly last year, is the question of allowing this right to all women, both fertile and infertile. This was an area where, as a group of Members, we could no longer agree to this procedure, so our Group of Members of the proposed law will not support it. But there's something else we'd like to draw your attention to. Most of what you have, use it responsibly. If you agree to adopt laws related to the state budget in some procedure, and if this meeting starts tomorrow, then you skip the agenda without an agreement, because next week there will be more of your members abroad than we will, and you will play the agreed procedure with that majority, then there will be a need to protest in this place against such a way. Most of the people here who are present in this case are such that you achieve what you want. Beyond the agreement, this point has been forced in these days. We could have done it in peace next week. In this brief consultation in the parliamentary group, I am also convinced by my fellow Members that, in order to draw attention to this, we will take advantage of the possibility and we will not take part in the vote on this point or in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. We will vote and we will find out when we vote. We're voting. The National Assembly is unconscionable and cannot make a valid decision. I reiterate my presence, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There are 42 of us here. Procedural proposal. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u122	I suggest we take a short break and invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups to a brief consultation in room 117 to continue their work. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We interrupt the session in 15 minutes and resume at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u124	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that we will continue the work of the National Assembly at 5:20 p.m. Therefore, I ask that you join the parliamentary group that did not announce the obstruction so that we can work. Let's get back to work. We're detecting a presence. 45 Members and Members are present. The national assembly shall not be concluded and shall not be able to take a valid decision. We're rediscovering presence. There are 46 Members and Members present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We decide the whole law. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I invite the parliamentary groups that have obstructed this item of the agenda to join us, because we will continue to deal with it 3. Agenda items - Defence proposal for a law on the supplementation of the Rail Traffic Act, short procedure. Representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, Dr Slavko Hangel, I welcome you very much. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Here you go, Mr. Hangel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u125	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the railway law, the Government proposes, following a reduced procedure, to supplement Article 34, which is in fact linked to the recently adopted guarantee law for the maintenance and modernisation of railway infrastructure in this national assembly. By supplementing Article 34 of that Act, the State shall in fact assume obligations under the Guarantee Act, assume obligations to maintain and modernise the infrastructure owned by the State. This actually brings all the obligations of the Slovenian Railways, as the borrower, to the country as the owner of this infrastructure. Please consider the law as proposed, according to the accelerated procedure, and in this way enable the implementation of the programme envisaged in the framework of the business plan of the Slovenian Railway System for 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the Board, Mr. Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In its two follow-up to the 8th regular session, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law supplementing the railway law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In dealing with this law, we also took into account the law of guarantee, which was also in the process at the time. That is why we adopted two decisions at the 1st meeting on 4 April, namely, for the first time that the Committee agrees that we are considering the law after a reduced procedure, and for the second time, the Committee instructed the ministries of transport and finance to prepare amendments, taking into account the comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. We received a reply from the Ministry of Transport 6.4, and also from the Ministry of Finance, where we were told that it was a subsidiary guarantee from the State, which means that the relevant Articles of the Rail Transport Act should also be amended. On the basis of these additional explanations and the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, the Committee has drawn up its amendments. In order to delete the first, second and third paragraphs and to amend the text of Article 4. You got it in our log. It's not easy to read. Article 4 is amended as follows: "In the law on rail transport, in the sixth paragraph of Article 34, "pika" is deleted at the end of the sentence and the following text is added: "and the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Railways, a share company, on the basis of loans hired to finance certain parts of the construction and maintenance of public railway infrastructure." This text is in accordance with the content of the guarantee law adopted. Finally, we have adopted a decision, which we also propose to the National Assembly: the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law supplementing the Rail Transport Act, together with the amendments of the Committee, be considered and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Legislature? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you go, Mr. Malovre, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group will support this law as well as the amendments. But there's something else going on here. As we have recently adopted the guarantee law, we find that the banks that have been rehabilitated by this government, this national assembly, are giving the railway, despite the fact that the State guarantee is in the back, are legally regulated, are lending loans by extraordinary, extremely high, not to say, obstetric interest. There will be 6 billion leased loans, which will be repaid in seven years to 10 billion 273 million, which suggests that almost 43% of the interest in these years, if I simplify the matter. Here I have a newspaper in front of me, Finance, where it's said that they've reduced the interest rate to four and a half percent in America. And our banks have set up a counter, on TOM plus interest and bank management, supervisory boards - unfortunately, I have to remind you of that - according to rumours, they share larger awards annually, such as the criticism of parliamentary salaries over a four-year term. I think it's worth it up to our banks. One is the needs of the economy, one is the needs of the state. The state that saves the bank is returning that interest rate to it, and that's a judgment worth it. The law itself, as such, and this article 34 of the Rail Transport Act, as proposed, will be supported. However, honourable Members, we must also reflect on this, and we must also reflect on the law that we have adopted the last time, the law on the gradual closure of mines in Zasavje, because banks have done the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Malovr presented the opinion of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Does anyone else want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. No one has applied in writing for the debate, so the possible debate is limited to 5 minutes. Since no one wants to discuss again, we are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. You have received the text of the articles in the material. The law has five articles and amendments have been adopted to all but 5 articles, as we have been briefed by the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Gerencher. We will therefore hold a debate on the basis of the report on the proposal for a law supplementing the railway law transmitted to you by the Committee, date 18.4.2001. We are therefore moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 proposed by the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment of the committee to Article 1. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 3. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 has been adopted and the article has been deleted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and on the amendment to Article 2 of which the Committee is also the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 2 has been deleted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 3. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 to which no amendment has been tabled and the entry into force of the law is governed, within 15 days of publication in the Official Journal. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to decision on Article 5. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 5 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the law in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 5B DOT OF THE DAY - THIRD DEFINITIONS OF THE MEDIA LEGISLATION. A third consideration of the draft law was initiated by the National Assembly at its fourth meeting. It terminated that point at the time of the examination of the seven amendments to Article 4 of the draft law, which are under review by the government amendments of 10.4.2001. To renew: seven amendments have been tabled to Article 4, the first amendment of which is a group of Members with the first signed by Majdo Shirca; the amendment of the SLS + SKD Group of Members - the Slovenian People's Party, the amendment of which the Government supports, as well as the original working body; the amendment of the Government under number 3 is the amendment of the home working body; the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia is under number 4; the amendment of the Government under number 5 is an amendment supported by the mother's working body; the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Group of Slovenia and under 7 is also an amendment of the same candidate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and all six amendments. Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u131	Madam, I intended to propose that we wait until the government is present in this Chamber and the Secretary of State has appeared. This proposal, which I intended to propose, is therefore out of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I myself noticed the Secretary of State during the pauses in the hallway, so I was sure that when we prepared the review of the amendments we would be present, the government representative would be present. On this occasion, I welcome him. I am opening a debate on the seven amendments and Article 4 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 4. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 3. If you allow me to warn you, this is the amendment of the government and under 4 is the amendment of the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, which is being excluded. If the amendment is under 3, this is the amendment of the government, accepted, the amendment under 4 is irrelevant. We therefore vote on the amendment under 3. We vote There are 54 Members and Members of Parliament. The vote was 33 to 6. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the amendment under 3 has been adopted, under 4 has become irrelevant. That is why we are moving to a vote on the amendment under 5, which is also excluded by the amendment under 6, the Socialist Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group. We are voting on the amendment under 5. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 30 to 8. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that the amendment under 5 has been adopted, under 6 has become irrelevant. We also decide on the amendment under 7. We're voting. I'm sorry. I'm breaking up. Mr Jerovšek wants to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! I hope you will support this amendment to Article 4. In Slovenia, there is a block to the dissemination of printed media. The situation in this area is worse than at the time of Yugoslavia. At that time, the distribution network and kiosks also had some media houses outside Slovenia. All these media houses were prepared for commercial reasons to compete and spread newspapers of other media outlets. Today, however, the situation is such that there is an extraordinary monopoly in this area. In some very small kiosks, where there is small sales, these monopolistic houses are willing to sell a copy or two competing ones, according to printed media that do not belong to the ideological circle represented by these monopolistic media houses. In larger cities, however, in more frequent places, they simply reject, and in many places they reject distribution. That's how we're facing a total media blockade. I think that in this National Assembly you are all aware that our citizens must already have modest competition and modest pluralism in the field of the media. However, if they are still being blocked by distribution, there can be no objective information for readers and citizens at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-19-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting on amendment number seven. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 35. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 11 and an amendment to Article 11 of which the Committee is the proposer. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 17. The first is the government, the second is the committee and the government supports it. The third is also a government supported by the Committee and the fourth committee supported by the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we decide on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Free 2.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Nobody's free.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Nobody's free.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under 4. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Nobody's free.]] I take it the amendment under 4 has been accepted. It's 18 o'clock. However, I would like to invite the National Assembly, given that there is a law before us that I would apologize for! [[...]] The Committee on Foreign Policy has [[...]] [[A consultation.]] [[...]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the committees have a meeting at 6 p.m., despite our commitment to conclude the work of this law today, we cannot do so, so I am adjourning the meeting. Allow me to inform you that we will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. with an extraordinary budget meeting. We will continue the session on Tuesday, 24. 4. 2001 at 2 p.m. with 11 p.m. - elections and appointments. Under this item, we will first conduct the election of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, i.e. by secret ballot. Then we will move on to the treatment of the cut-off 5.b of the agenda item and 5 p.m. and in order to proceed. Thank you so much for your attention and good night. Given that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, is already waiting, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy is asking all members to join him at the Foreign Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
