ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, kindly invited to the Hall of the National Assembly to begin the session. I don't know if I'm wrong or not, but I think sounding is better today than it has been before. I am grateful to all Members and Members for taking into account the warning about mobile phones. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I respectfully invite you to report your ballots so that we can see whether the conditions for the opening of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly are met. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall meet at its third session. I convened this meeting on the basis of Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: colleagues Bogomir Vnučec, Dr Andrej Bajuk, Mirko Zamernik and Ivan Bozič. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! Please insert the card! I find there are 56 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meeting, and I welcome everything very much. We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 13 February 2001. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this respect, we are moving on to proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda. The Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that the proposal for a Telecommunications Act and a proposal for an External Affairs Act should not be considered at this meeting, but rather at the next meeting of the assembly in March. On the basis of Article 64(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly shall not discuss and vote on this proposal. Those draft laws are already included in the previous meeting of the 4th meeting of the Assembly. I have not received any other proposals for withdrawal. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we move on to proposals to expand the agenda. I have received a proposal from colleagues Kacin and Battelli regarding the proposal for a declaration at the 25-year-old of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Does the proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting! There are 66 colleagues and colleagues in the hall! The proposal for extension was supported by 48 colleagues and 5 against them. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. By reference, you have been informed that the President of the Republic may inform us of his proposal to elect the Ombudsman. We have also received this proposal at the agreed time. I therefore propose that the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect the Ombudsman should be placed on the agenda of this meeting. The proposal by the President of the Republic for the Ombudsman is Mr Matjaž Hanžek. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Then we'll vote on it. Please. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal to put this item on the agenda was supported by 61 Members and 1 opposed it. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] We are moving on to a decision on proposals for a fast-track procedure. The first-signed Anton Anderlic's Group of Members tabled a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and proposed that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports and proposes to adopt it quickly. Does the President of the Commission or the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He's a representative of the government. Representatives of the parliamentary groups. [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that act quickly. We're voting. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal was supported by 54 colleagues and 5 opposed it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a maritime code for consideration by the assembly and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? I guess not. Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. Let's vote. This proposal is voted on by 69 colleagues. The proposal supported 55 colleagues and 5 opposed them. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on public agencies for consideration by the assembly and is proposing to the assembly to adopt it as soon as possible. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body does not support the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track law. Does the rapporteur want a word? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u2	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to sit down because I'm having a hard time swinging. Otherwise, if you want, I can get there because I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u3	You have your word behind the stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u5	On the other hand, once again, I would like to point out that they have made an effort in the technical services and that the hearing in the hall is better than it was, and that speaking afterwards is not such a problem with the existing microphones. Please, Mr. Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u6	Yes, the mother's working body does not propose that this law, which is a system law - is an important law, regulation, I will say, the whole area - should be adopted quickly because there is no real reason for it. In view of the rapid procedure, if you look at the reasons, it should be for the urgent and serious interests of the State, for the threat and similar matters, what we have written in the Rules of Procedure. That's not the case. In addition, the profession, which has so far not been sufficiently involved, should be given the opportunity to clarify certain important matters at three readings, as far as, of course, these readings in the National Assembly. We therefore propose that the law be dealt with on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] A representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? There's no interest in that. We're voting on the proposal. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal to adopt the law following a rapid procedure was supported by 12, 52 colleagues and colleagues opposed it. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted and therefore the National Assembly will treat it as a proposal for a law at first reading. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on lawyering and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Prior to the proposal for the adoption of the draft law, the parent labour body was identified by a rapid procedure. Representative of the Secretariat, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. There were 71 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 38 supported by the proposal, 12 opposed it. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 12.]] I find that that law is adopted in a rapid manner. The Group of Members of the First-signed Gezo Juban tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wine and invited the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] A representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. Let's vote! 71 colleagues and colleagues decide on the proposal. The proposal supported 46, with 14 colleagues and colleagues voting against it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on referendum and on human initiative and the assembly proposing to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No one wants to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. Let's vote! 72 colleagues and colleagues voted on the proposal. Of these, 44 were for the proposal and 14 were for the proposal. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a decision on proposals for short-term adoption. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? He doesn't either. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. No one wants to. I conclude the debate and, before we move to a decision, I remind Mr Minister, Dimovski and But, thank you very much I conclude the debate and, before we move to a decision, I would point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it is opposed by at least one third of the Members present. [[...]] [[...]] Let's vote! There are 73 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. It's 60 for the vote and four for the vote. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences and proposes to the assembly to adopt it following a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that short-term act. Does the speaker want a working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative or representative of any of the members of the groups wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] Here, too, at the conclusion of the debate, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 73 Members present in the Chamber, 61 votes in favour and two colleagues or colleagues opposed him. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are voting on the draft agenda as a whole. For today's session, I propose the agenda, as you have received by reference, and the amendments and additions adopted. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. There are 73 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 65 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of the agenda and two opposed it. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the National Assembly has adopted the agenda for the February session. Before we move on, allow me to inform you of the following things. National Assembly Please, Comrade Jelinčič, do you have procedural procedures? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u8	Yes, Mr. President, procedurally. I propose that we vote on this proposal so that the 32nd item of our agenda - this is called elections and appointments - can be moved to the beginning of the meeting as point 2. Because this has always been a fixed agenda, which I don't know why we've changed it - or at the first point - I don't know why we've changed it so far or so. There are some strange changes and private changes to the agenda or order of different points, and we do not agree on this in our Group of Members, so we propose that we vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u9	We will vote on this proposal. As President, there is no change in this sense, that this has always been the case. We are voting on a proposal from colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u10	Mr President, I'm sorry, I made a mistake. Point 31, not 32. So that there would be no mistake - a notice of resignation of individual officials of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u11	Comrade Jelinčič, then allow me to tell you as President why I have decided to place this item under order number 31. I think it's good to have colleagues and colleagues know that when it comes to making decisions. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly at its first meeting shall be informed of the resignations of the officials after informing the President of the National Assembly of its decision. This item is placed on the agenda and respects the State Assembly of Rules of Procedure in this respect. The Rules of Procedure do not specify when the agenda item will be. In view of the fact that respected colleagues and colleagues, given the fact that there is a possibility that the issues that have led to the withdrawal of their positions are settled before this, it seems simple to me that we are not in breach of the rules of procedure of the national assembly, that this point should be done after we have finally determined whether the reasons for their decision are terminated. That's my explanation. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, if it's sane, I wouldn't say that, I'd say it's adapted to the current situation. The established practice was that this item of the agenda should be considered at the outset and I think that if we take into account established practice elsewhere, they will also take it into account in this case, and please put my proposal, which was procedural, to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u13	That's what I'm gonna do, buddy Jelinčič. We are voting on the proposal of colleague Jelinčič that the point under order number 31, "the notice of resignation of individual officials of the National Assembly", be classified as, colleague Jelinčič, have you proposed? [[...]] Like a point under a serial number?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u14	Subsequent number 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u15	Subsequent number 2. We are voting on this proposal. There are 76 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 33 supported by the proposal and 32 opposed it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Would you like a word, Comrade Peca? [[No, no, ……]] Then I note that the proposal by my colleague Jelinčič has been adopted. Before we proceed with our work, allow me to inform the National Assembly of the following matters. On the question point and on the initiative of Members and Members of Parliament, Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovšek apologized for today. Is the National Assembly aware of the decision, or can I ask for peace in the Chamber among ministers as well? [[...]] Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is today a percentage of the government's obligations abroad. Since the business provision to answer the questions had to come into force on 24 February, it was also right for the college to reach an agreement with the Prime Minister to answer the questions raised by Members on the first opportunity of this meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that this could be done on Tuesday at 2.00 p.m. and 30 minutes. At 1400 on Tuesday. Today, while parliamentary questions and initiatives will be given to ministers, the members of the government will run as planned. The National Assembly will start its meeting on Wednesday, tomorrow, with a repeat decision on free-customs shops or on the law on this issue. Then I propose that we move on to a decision on the proposal by the President of the Republic on the candidate for the Ombudsman, then on a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and on a day-to-day basis. On Thursday, at 10 a.m., the National Assembly will begin its session by discussing the 26th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a fund for compensation to victims of war and post-war violence, and then the meeting will continue with the 28th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wine. I propose and ask the government to ensure the presence of the competent ministers so that the points can run as they were concluded today in college. Comrade Jelinčič, do you have a different opinion on this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u16	Mr President, if I don't think so, I may have overheard something. Did you say that as point two, there would be a re-decision on the law on the conversion of free-customs stores? I think that we have voted that the second point will be this, the resignation of individual officials of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u17	I propose that we take note of the resignations today on the questions sent.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u18	Okay. Then it's today, okay. I didn't think it would be today because it's questionable how many people will end up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u19	But the National Assembly does not decide on this, Comrade Jelinčič, so attendance alone is not essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u20	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u21	I propose that, after the end of today's issues and initiatives, we make a point so that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we can start. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded all necessary rules regarding the conduct of this meeting of the national assembly. It's a few minutes to half past three. I propose that we start with questions from Members and initiatives 15 minutes to 3 p.m. or 15 to 15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u24	I would like to remind colleagues and colleagues who are not in the hall that, by chance, they have left their cards in the voting apparatus and have reported their presence, even though we are missing them in the hall. I don't think it's going to be wrong if we collide this card from the voting apparatus, even though it would be right for everyone to manage it alone. There are certainly no 70 colleagues in the hall. We continue the meeting of the National Assembly and move on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr. Kelemina has procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable all together! I would like to point out that there is a violation of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the Government is in breach of the second paragraph of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the Government or the Minister must answer the oral question at the same meeting at which the question was raised; if it cannot do so, it must explain it immediately. In such a case, he must answer the question in writing, no later than three days - three days! - before the next session. I would like to point out that at the previous meeting, I have put very important questions to which, of course, I have not received answers - and the government is in breach of the rules of procedure - that these are important questions, from which I should mention only the answer to the mags. Igor Strmšnik, who said only one sentence, said: "In view of the scope of the questions raised and their considerable weight, because these are key strategic questions, I suggest that we answer your questions in writing." So, the government representative himself has found that these are key strategic issues that do not allow too long a delay. And since we do not get answers to such a key strategic question, this country may suffer severe economic damage, national damage and I do not think that this is acceptable, that the government does not answer these questions, because in this case I am not allowed to do so today, it is once again in violation of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, because I am not allowed to continue this debate unless I am satisfied with the answer. And now I ask you, Mr President, how can this procedural complication be solved, how can I raise today's complementary question to the key strategic questions of this country if I do not have the government's answer. I would ask you to at least take a decision on how to resolve this issue in the future. For I am not the only one who has not received an answer today, but we are a whole species that have not received answers and cannot actually continue our mission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would ask for an answer and also for an appropriate solution to this question. It's a very important question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you so much for the heads-up, colleague Kelemina. I would like to inform my fellow Members and colleagues that, at the beginning of the mandate, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the leadership of the National Assembly have paid very much attention to the questions raised by the Members and to the initiatives. Above all, we have concluded that it will always be the first day, at a certain time, that the government will cooperate in accordance with the rules of procedure on this item of the agenda. We have changed the rules of procedure so that the first three parliamentary questions must be answered by the Prime Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on 24 February. The government is well known for its business obligations. And I would like to take this opportunity to call on her, on behalf of all Members and Members, today, to respect her responsibilities and responsibilities to the National Assembly when it comes to answers to questions and initiatives. Direct sanctions for non-compliance with this business provision, Comrade Kelemin, are not, unless, of course, someone decides to discuss the responsibility of one of the ministers. I don't think there's any reason for that. I propose that your intervention, colleague Kelemin, today is understood as an additional invitation and a request from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take the point of question and initiative very seriously and to use this point to not only answer, but also explain its policy, not only to the national assembly, but also to the public. I will do my best in accordance with my responsibilities to do so. Here is also the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who is always very conscientious in the presence of his colleagues and even in his power to help ensure that cooperation between the Government and Parliament is good, and I invite him to take note of your warning. So I suggest we move on to the point that is now on. Members and Members, I would like to point out that the question referred must be brief and put in such a way that its content is clearly visible. The oral question or initiative shall not last more than 3 minutes. The Minister's response is generally no more than 10 minutes. I propose that we also agree that ministers should not have longer answers and clarifications than 10 minutes. However, the Member's supplementary question should last for a maximum of 2 minutes. You have been informed of the detention of Prime Minister Drnovsk. You are also informed that he will answer three opposition questions on Tuesday next week. Today, however, we will start with the questions in the order of our colleagues and colleagues, as mentioned. I would like to inform you that due to the retention of ministers in the handling of parliamentary initiatives and questions at this meeting, they will participate: instead of Dr Dimitri Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ignac Golob, Secretary of State, instead of mags. Franca Buta, when she is not in the hall, Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, instead of Dr. Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence and Dr. Tomaž Time and Dr. Milan Jazbec, instead of Minister Lucija Čok Mag. Mirko Zorman and Deputy Minister of Culture Andreje Richter Bozidar Zorko, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. Comrade Zmigo Jelinčič asked the question of a Member of Parliament within the framework of that business provision, under which the Prime Minister should answer it. He informed me that, despite the absence of the Prime Minister, he wanted to ask the question. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the gentlemen of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On about nine hectares of the most beautiful land on the Savudrian peninsula, Croatia, with the help of the Austrian and Italian banks, began to build a whole village in which the main spaces or main points will be held by the Italian right-wing policy. According to the local paraphrasing, the Ustashas will build for fascists on Slovenian soil. That's why I'm asking: What will the Slovenian Government do in this regard, and will it ensure that no action is taken in this form until the settlement of this issue and the ownership of the Savudrian peninsula? I am also asking the government, which is now the case with the United States of America, and I think it would make sense at this point to put pressure on the Croatian government, to demand at least something, say in the framework of success of at least two warships, at one time to ask the Croats to stop the sale of Tito's legacy and to return it to its original state. At the same time, the Slovenian government should also send a warship into international waters, because this is the only way to demonstrate the sovereignty of both the Slovenian maritime area and the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia as such, while at the same time confirming the conclusion of the State Council on the Indivisibility of the Gulf of Piran and the fact that Slovenia must have a free exit to international waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u28	Before I call on the government representative to answer your question, allow me to say that the political labelling of the representatives of the two nations mentioned in the introduction was not appropriate. Government representatives, would you like to answer that question? This is the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u30	You can get up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u31	It's kind of hard, but I'll do it for you. I think it's at my age to demand that standing up say I'm not used to it, but I'll get up. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u32	No, you can, if you have a country with this, Mr Secretary of State, you can sit down.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u35	As always, Mr Yelinčič, a member of the National Assembly, asks a pertinent and interesting question. The first question will be answered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in writing, as required, three days before the next meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As for the Coat and all the claims he has made, we will also find ourselves a means of a written response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Do you have a further question, Comrade Jelinčič? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank Mr Ignac Golobe, Secretary of State, and I expect a written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Mario Possonec to ask the question or initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I would also like to ask the government a few questions and make some suggestions. I'm asking the government: Does the current method of financing voluntary firefighters consider that to be good? It is a human and voluntary organization that brings together volunteers who unselfishly help where they need to, save foreign lives and risk their own many times, but these societies suffer a great shortage. It is true that it is a voluntary organization, but it would require the most modern technology, which is extremely expensive. I believe that the state should provide and subsidise modern technology because without voluntary firefighters, losses would be even greater. Secondly: I propose to explore the possibility of financing kindergartens from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the personal income of the workers in kindergartens. For kindergarten is part of the educational process of children and the country should take care of the little ones in this way. Thus, it would not be necessary for parents to pay anything in the case of a child’s illness, except for the contribution to food, which is usually extremely low - so the deduction is low. I believe that the data on 61% of all children in kindergartens is sufficient to justify thinking about a different organisation of the kindergarten funding system. Thirdly: I would like to draw attention again to the problem of non-payment of work to subcontractors who worked on the Puconci-Hodoš track for free. I have personally pointed to this problem as early as 16 December 2000, and I would like to remind you once again that there is no concrete result to date, except for the promises and discussions on who has received the money and who should have settled those costs. Gentlemen from SCT, Gradis and asphalta Murska Sobota have names and surnames, so I think it's time to look for the personally responsible and the money and stop playing with the craftsmen waiting for the payment they deserve. Let them not make rude proposals, such as paying 60% of the costs and leaving the craftsmen behind. These craftsmen have families and cannot finance the construction of the track on their own. That's why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u40	Mrs Maria Possonec, if you can complete the sentence; the rules on three minutes apply to all the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thanks for the heads-up. Therefore, on behalf of the rule of law and the well-loved subcontractors, I call on Mr Jakob Presečnik, Minister of Transport, and Mr Zajc, Director of Slovenian Railways, to make order around their house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. Does the minister want to answer? Please, Mr. Minister of Transport, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mrs Pozsonec asked a similar question at a previous meeting of the National Assembly. Although we are through the main investor, this is Slovenian Railways, we have already tried to resolve the matter. Certain conclusions or arrangements have already been made at individual meetings. Unfortunately, not all of these agreements have been implemented or have not been fully implemented. So in recent days further interviews are under way. There have also been interviews with representatives of these performers. To the main contractor, the investor has retained a certain part of the payment, which, of course, could also pay for these works, and we will strive to try to solve this problem. Of course, the problem is deep because, or large, it is because the company that owes to these contractors or subcontractors is in bankruptcy proceedings. But no matter what, we're going to try to use the means that are being held back to the main contractor to remedy the matter. We have already given an answer, and very briefly, we will not wait for 3 days until the next meeting, we will give an additional answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask the minister an additional question, Mrs. Possonec? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I give my word to a colleague. No, no, no. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u45	Good afternoon. Thank you so much for asking. State Secretary, Mirko Zorman, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The initiative to transfer the salaries of teachers to the state budget will be taken as an initiative to amend the law on the organisation and financing of education and education and will be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else I can speak to? [[...]] Yes, please. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u47	The Member asked a question concerning the financing of firefighting companies. I would like to say that, under Article 2 of the Firearms Act, firefighting is a compulsory public service organised by local communities and the state. This service is carried out by firefighting organisations and includes preventive activities. Operational fire-fighting activities cannot be carried out as a gainful activity. Therefore, in accordance with Article 6 of the Act, the local community provides funds for the regular operation of firefighting units, fire protection and rescue equipment, maintenance and renewal of firefighting equipment and equipment, education, training and so on. The State shall co-finance the protection and rescue tasks performed by only certain fire brigades outside the territory of the home municipalities. The Regulation on the organisation, operation and training of fire protection, rescue and rescue forces sets out 43 professional and voluntary firefighting units carrying out protection and rescue tasks in the event of hazardous substances accidents, the task of technical rescue in the event of road traffic accidents and accidents on liquid and standing waters. This Regulation also sets out the units responsible for the protection and rescue of road and sea accidents. All these tasks shall also be co-financed by the State budget under the headings of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Resolution, which is the body of the Ministry of Defence. Firefighting is therefore also financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, for the above-mentioned tasks of protection and resolution of wider importance, from the means of insurance companies and businesses, income from their own activities and contributions, gifts and various elections. Insurance funds shall be determined in accordance with the Fire Protection Act, Article 58 of this Law provides that part of the fire premium funds shall also be allocated to co-financing fire protection tasks through a specific fire fund item in the budget. Part of the fire reduction fee for tasks laid down by the law at state level and part for local communities. Currently, according to the rules in force, 30% of the fire charges are for state-level programmes and 70% for local communities. This relationship was in force in 2000 and was also adopted in 2001. However, I must point out this, of course, the procedure for amending the pre-fire law, which was initiated in the light of the Court of Auditors' finding that a different division of the fire tax should be regulated by law. In 1993, when the Fire Protection Act was amended, it stipulated that the means of a fire tax were to be divided according to the dominant principle, that is, where they were also collected. In view of the changes in insurance, it is no longer possible to monitor funds for fire taxes under this principle. The law on public finances was subsequently adopted, followed by the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000 and the law on public funds. All these laws have abolished this fire fund as mentioned by the above-mentioned Fire Protection Act of 1993 and provide that funds, as in the case of a fire tax, are categorised as intended revenue and expenditure of the budget. In view of the above, the Ministry of Defence has initiated a procedure to amend and supplement the Fire Protection Act relating to the Fire Fund. The first hearing was concluded on 29.3.2000 and the National Assembly instructed the proposer to bring the draft law into line with the law on public finances and the law on the implementation of the budget. The law should also lay down framework criteria and criteria for the allocation of fire fund funds. This has been taken into account in the proposal for a law submitted for second reading and the essence of which is that the means of a fire charge intended to promote the modernisation of firefighting techniques in municipalities are defined as investment and not as ongoing transfers. According to the existing regulation, the means of the fire tax are considered to be the own revenue of the municipalities and, in the event that the prescribed criteria are met, they do not have any additional resources. In view of the fact that the fire liaison requested the withdrawal of the law in question from the procedure, without clearly identifying the reasons and facts and the justification, we have reviewed the matter again. Their requirement is based on the basis that if the Fire Protection Act is inconsistent with the Public Finance Act, the Budget Enforcement Act and the Public Funds Act, these laws should be aligned with the Fire Protection Act and not vice versa. It is for this reason that we are studying this proposal in the Ministry of Defence and, of course, we will continue to follow our findings accordingly in the adoption of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Dr. Tomaž Time. I find it hard to believe, colleague Pozsonchev, that you have an additional question now? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can proceed with the appearance of colleagues and colleagues. Janez Podobnik, you have the floor for the issue of the government. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! My question is about the organisation of this year's Prešeren celebration at Cankar's home. As, on the basis of Article 9 of the Statute, the Ministry of Culture is carrying out professional, administrative, financial and other technical work for the Prešeren Fund, I assess that this is an appropriate issue and therefore refer it to the Culture Department, in which case to the Secretary of State, because the Minister is excused. My question is this: Why was the tradition first interrupted this year that the festive speaker at the central celebration to celebrate the Slovenian cultural holiday at Cankarjev home last year was the award-winner or award-winner for life's work. This practice has been well-adopted in recent years. I firmly believe that it was well received both in the cultural and other public, but it was interrupted just this year, when many of us - I am sure that many with great anticipation and interest were expecting a festive address from last year's award winner, the floor of Dr. Mark Ivan Rupnik, a great Slovenian artist, a great philosopher and theologian who lives and works in Rome, a man with a truly great spiritual format. My question, of course, does not comment in any way or in any way contradicts this year's decision that a great Slovenian painter, Mr Gnamus, who was also a festive speaker, has won his life's work. But I wonder how it was this year that this established practice, which was good, blue and well-accepted, was interrupted. I ask who has taken this decision, whether the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund or any other body. I would be very happy to have a decision on such a decision in writing, but I now expect, of course, an oral answer to the basic question. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Mr. Secretary of State Zorko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President and Mr Podobnik! The Governing Board of the Prešeren Fund is completely sovereign in deciding the course of the celebration, speakers and so on. The Ministry had nothing to do with such an organisation not earlier than this year. Although it is true that, of course, the Ministry does some technical tasks for the Prešeren Fund. I would like to ask the Management Board to explain this decision in writing. I don't know her right now, and I'm afraid I can't answer you. Then you would be provided with a written explanation, including to the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Comrade Podobnik has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you for your answer to the Secretary of State. I would also ask you to answer the following question in this written answer: What, then, is the role of the Coordinating Committee? Several articles speak of its competence, and, of course, it states that the Coordination Committee, in which the representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic, the Cabinet of the President of the National Assembly, the Office of the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the State Council, the Secretary of the Constitutional Court, the Representative of the Defence Department, are to draw up a timetable for more important celebrations and events of state importance in the coming year and to determine the manner and extent of honouring individual events. And Article 41 states that there is also a celebration of the Slovenian cultural holiday in his work circle. I would therefore like you to answer this question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Once again, I take advantage of this warning to government representatives that they are answering questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, including written questions, not to repeat comments from previous mandates that Members do not get answers to questions. In order of course, colleagues Aurelio Juri, Roman Jakič and Janez Janša now have the floor. First, my friend Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two initiatives, I have no questions, and of course the work of the government will be facilitated. It has been a year since the Group of Members and Members, as you know, has submitted to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this Agreement to resolve doubts on this issue once and for all. From the Constitutional Court, we have read, but there is encouraging news that, of course, the initiative should be considered as a final priority. Despite these consciences, of course, we have been waiting for this to happen for a relatively long time. The villains can say that the government is not interested in speeding up the process. I do not believe this, of course, and therefore, to cast aside any doubts, I call on the Government, which has, of course, signed the agreement and has always strongly advocated its ratification so far, to demonstrate the interest in priority treatment in the Constitutional Court and to allow, of course, the agreement to re-enter the National Assembly. The second initiative, however, is a bit unusual, addressed to all of us, Members of Parliament and Members, who in our local environments are important contributors to public opinion, and concerns issues, as you know, refugees and asylum seekers. I urge that, as far as we are concerned about the values of humanity and solidarity, we help to increase the acceptability of people to these poor people in our local environments, in our electoral environment, and thus help to create a new climate within which the relevant services, the internal ministry and the rest of the ministries will, of course, be easier to find the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I understand that you have not addressed the issue to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so we can call the following. This is colleague Roman Jakič - you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you, President. Members and members of the government, nice greeting! I refer the question to the government and expect the answer from one of the competent ministries. A year and a month have passed since we, together with our fellow Member Alexander Merl, addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a written initiative on the establishment of an inter-ministerial government expert group, which, in cooperation with Members, would form a proposal for a law on prostitution in 2000. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Women Policy were appointed to this group. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported our initiative and commissioned the competent ministries and other administrative authorities to form an interdepartmental government expert group to prepare a proposal for the Act. At the proposal of this Government Decision, the Ministry of the Interior organised a one-day consultation of these authorities or ministries on 30 March last year. I am asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry whether the Interdepartmental Expert Group has been formally formed or whether it was only consultation in this case. If the group has already been formed, what stage is there in the preparation of the law on prostitution? In addition, I call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform Members and Members, at least the initiators, if not all, of the activities of this expert group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u58	Would any of the ministers present or their officials like to respond? Please, Mr. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u59	Your Honor! Direct answer to the question: the expert group was not appointed in the new government structure and the law is not in the 2001 government programme. We will, however, obtain a report from the Interdepartmental Ministerial Group and prepare a more detailed answer to this question. In this respect, I thank you for the initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question, colleague Jakič? [[No, no, ……]] Instead of Janez Janša's reported colleague, Dr. Miha Brejc. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Good-bye, everybody! In its 2000 report, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia drew attention to an alarming situation in this country. Approximately 70, a little more to me, is decisions of the Constitutional Court, which neither the Government nor Parliament take into account. In their report, I quote: "These are cases in which the Constitutional Court finds that the law is inconsistent with the Constitution and that the legislator sets a time limit for eliminating the constitutionality found and the legislator does not respond to such a decision." The report draws attention to the responsibility of the National Assembly as legislator and to the responsibility of the Government, which has constitutionally defined powers to propose laws. Like I said, there are about 70 such laws. Among them, for example, is the Income Act, which is particularly mentioned, since it is in the area of income that the Constitutional Court has already found three times the unconstitutionality, and none has yet been abolished. The deadline for the lifting of the first non-compliance expired three years ago, as discussed in December 2000, to eliminate the second anti-constitution found two and a half years ago, and the six-month deadline for the abolition of the third anti-constitution expired more than one year ago. For the first time, I expect an explanation, in particular, from the Minister of Finance, of how he will react to what the Constitutional Court has found. I ask for a concrete answer on this matter when we are talking about the Income Act. The matter is particularly topical, as we know. I also ask the Government to submit a timely programme to address these inconsistencies in relation to this report, or rather to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But there's something else I need to find out. Of course, it is right for all of us to work together to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European legislation. However, I think it is wrong for the government to have such a demeaning attitude towards the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. You've called Minister Robb, he's been in the hall so far, maybe he'll join us next. Does anyone else want to answer that question? Here you go. Madam Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you so much for asking. As far as I know, the proposal for a law that would be in line with the Constitutional Court's decision has already been prepared by the Ministry of Finance, but at the moment I do not have a clear picture of how many proposals for amending this law are actually in the waiting line. This would give you a written answer, which will be fully accurate, subsequently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Another question? [[No, no, ……]] The next five will receive a word in the order of their colleagues: Sašo Peče, Franci Rokavec, Igor Štemberger, colleague Silva Černugelj and Dr. Jožef Bernik. First of all, my friend Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we propose to replace the Slovenian Ambassador in Switzerland Dr. Slavko Buser. Explanation. Diplomatic representations are supposed to be a service, a service for domestic customers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and all those who wish to take any interest in getting in touch with our country. Unfortunately, this embassy, or the representation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, has already been quite interesting, on the same date, that at the celebration of the cultural holiday, violated or acted, in our opinion, inappropriate to our country. It began in 1990 when the then ambassador violated Article 7 of the Constitution, which speaks of the separation of the State from the Church and thus the State institutions from church customs. It continued until this year, when this celebration took place on 10 February and where the leading men of our diplomacy in this town took advantage of this opportunity to exploit their personal injuries at this celebration for others, say, lower rank. I think that these are extremely inappropriate acts for such important positions as the conduct of diplomacy. I think it would make sense for the Republic of Slovenia, which at these moments is trying to join the European Union as soon as possible, to have at least so much of its own self and to try to reach those key embassies, which is undoubtedly the embassy in Switzerland, to give people who will not cast a negative shadow on our democracy. On the other hand, it concerns the city of Maribor - the issue of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia - where there has been a dispute for some time between tenants of premises in the so-called grinding pool or formerly the mill barracks, the municipality of Maribor and the ministry. Recently, in line with the agreement between the Maribor City Hall and the Ministry of Consensus to stamp out or terminate, to prevent the development of entrepreneurship, and to those entrepreneurs who have invested several of their money in the renovation of the existing premises, all in accordance with the agreement, there has been a new development today, namely that these entrepreneurs have been given full decisions until they have to move out of the premises. In view of the fact that I speak on behalf of these tenants in this case, I would only ask the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, to try at this point in the city of Maribor, with a bit more than 15% unemployment, to jump to the aid and try to reach at least a consensus on how to maintain these jobs, how to keep these companies in this grinding pool. This is neither an initiative nor an issue; in fact, it is a request, a request to the competent ministry to try to harmonise and bring the matter to an end so that we do not lose any additional jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much, buddy. First, the question was raised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. In response to the question put by a member of the national assembly, Mr Pečet, I would say the following. For the first time, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, all our embassies and all the general consulates are key. We make no distinction between one and the other because we have a small diplomatic service, we have a small diplomatic service, we have a small number of embassies, if we compare them with other countries. We are always essentially interested in the role of the embassy and the Consulate General in bringing our citizens together in the state of accreditation. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very scrupulous in following constitutional principles for all years since its founding, and our diplomacy, and he has scrupulously followed the constitutional principles on relations between the State and the Church. As far as I know, and as far as I'm concerned, some sort of special incident is not supposed to come. But if we do, after we have examined this matter, which was raised by a member of the National Assembly, Mr Pece, we will also answer it in writing. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The second question has been addressed to the Ministry of Defence, please the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u69	Mr President, honourable Member, Mr Pece. I must say that I have truly understood this as an initiative, not as a question of a request, regarding the resolution of spatial problems in the Maribor area. I must say that it is precisely that we have placed all of the property that the Ministry of Defence has in our medium- and short-term programmes and that we are currently working intensively on these issues. I can only promise from this city that we will take the issue of Maribor as a priority in solving it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My friend Peca wants to ask you a further question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you for both the partial answers. Mr Golob, it seems to me that Slovenia has a small number of diplomats, a small number of diplomats. We're in the final stages of a small country. But it follows that we should look so much more closely at what kind of representatives we have. According to my information, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was informed of the incident that took place on 10 February this year. If I'm wrong, I let you know today, and I'll ask you to check it out. As for the question of the grinding pool. The tenants of the premises tried to contact Maribor City Hall and the Ministry mentioned several times. Contacts have been established. Of course, there is a question of denationalisation, the issue of return on investment and, of course, the purchase value. My request, once again, is that you meet with these entrepreneurs as soon as possible and try to find something that, among other things, will keep my city at least those employees who are still working there today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much, colleague Peca. I give my word to my colleague, Francie Rokavac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you for saying so, Mr President! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am referring my question to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In accordance with the adopted law on pension and disability insurance. At least on 1 January of this year, a detailed statement on the determination of the property price should be drawn up for all beneficiaries eligible for the acquisition of a state pension. Since this is still not available at the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, I ask the Department of State why this directive has not yet been published or when it will be available. It is known that, in accordance with Article 419 of the Act already mentioned from 1.1.2001, this possibility belongs to all citizens who have completed 70 years or more. On the other hand, I refer to the second question, or once again, to the Ministry of Health. I would like to reiterate that there are no specific instructions for reimbursement of travel expenses for persons receiving social assistance when sending a medical examination to a specialist. There are no clear instructions here in the departmental units of the Health Insurance Office and interpretations are different. In fact, I would like to appeal that precise guidance be drawn up in this direction and that the competent social work centres are also informed of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Anybody want a word? Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u75	As far as the guidelines for regulating censorship, wealth censorship, I must say that this instruction has been prepared and is in coordination. On the other hand, it is formally applicable and these conditions are already taken into account by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office that this year at the age of 70 and the price, which means income that does not exceed the minimum full-time pension, that is 64 000, already accepts applications from potential candidates or beneficiaries. Even less is the problem for those who meet the conditions and have also met them last year, i.e. 65 years and the price to obtain cash assistance as the only source of livelihood - that is to say those who do not reach the price of 25 thousand 200 tolars. There are currently relatively few of these recipients of state pensions, only 88 of which were paid last month. However, these roles are now being collected and I must say that I hope that this censorship, which we would like to reconcile with other sources, will be accepted for other social benefits, so that there will be no further problems in the coming month.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u77	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, Ambassador Rokavec. My name is Simon Vrchunec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Allow me first to apologize to the minister who is absent is abroad. I would like to answer your question by repeating the Minister's reply from the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Reimbursement of costs, when the insured person is sent to be inspected outside his residence, shall be provided to all insured persons under the Health Insurance and Health Insurance Act and under the mandatory health insurance rules. Of course, this referral must be justified. This referral is confirmed by the travel doctor, or the doctor who sent the insurance company, and by the doctor who then took it into further medical treatment When this process is carried out, the insurer may apply the reimbursement of the costs. The problem is when it comes to insurers who cannot cover these costs themselves in the initial phase. At that time, they can use evidence to enforce their social status in the district health insurance unit and get these costs reimbursed in advance. If there is a problem in the instructions on how to obtain these costs in advance, then you might want to use the Ministry to define your initiative more precisely for us. We guarantee that we will draw up instructions from compulsory health insurance, whose guardian is a health insurance institution in Slovenia, but accepts them in agreement with the Minister responsible for health care. So we will make sure that these instructions are prepared in a more precise way, so that all these problems will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much, mag. Top of the line, Secretary of State. Comrade Rokavec, further question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you. I hope that interdepartmental coordination will be completed as soon as possible and that, in some ways, there will also be a set of property censorship concerning the acquisition of state pensions. In fact, I have to point out that it's people who are older. It's about people 70 years old and over. I think they've probably waited long enough to gain this right. On the other hand, as far as the Secretary of State is concerned, I will be happy to provide information proving that these instructions are not effective at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Additional explanation, mag. A peak? [[No, no, ……]] The next one has the word of a colleague of Igor Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. I would like to address my question to the Ministry of Education and Sport. International cooperation of universities is a special segment in higher education. This is about the flow of information, the exchange of knowledge, experience, in the final phase to strengthen some interrelationships between colleges. This cooperation includes programme student exchanges, such as the European Union programme "Socrates Erasmus". According to statistics, our students like to use these programmes, while mainly students from the European Union do not like to come to us. This may be one of the indicators of the quality or trust of foreigners in our study programs. The relationship between the students coming to us from the European Union and our students going to study in the European Union is one in five. What to do to make this relationship somehow balanced or, in other words, what to do to make our study programmes more interesting, especially for students of the European Union. In this regard, there is probably a number of sub-questions, such as the implementation of English-language programmes in our colleges, and the credit system is a study that would allow foreign students, after returning to their home country, to unhindered recognition of all the obligations they have done here; and the problem of scholarships, and in the final stage also the problem of accommodation. With regard to this last point, with the installation, I am also interested in the stage of the project of 4,000 student beds by 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Would any of the government's representatives like to respond? Please, Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The question is, of course, quite complex. Some of the measures for more students to come to us are also in the framework of international projects, such as Lingua, have already been implemented, which would also allow foreign students to learn at least the basic Slovenian language. Of course, we will answer a number of questions concerning the various areas of the ministry in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Do you have any further questions, colleague Stemberger? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite my colleague Silva Montenegro to the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Mr President, members of the government, ministers and dear colleagues! Years ago, as a city councilwoman, in 1995, on the 100th anniversary of the earthquake in Ljubljana, I had the opportunity to ask a secular question about the space and working conditions of the astronomical and geophysical observatory in Golovec. We know that at the time Slovenia devoted a lot of money and time to all research, and we also had quite a few exhibitions; museums had the opportunity to write about it. I think we've even published a lot of books. However, as far as I am aware, this institution is still operating under the same, unaltered conditions in Golovec, 84 square meters. Some have warned me that there are now places to prepare for certain activities in Bezigrad. In view of the fact that Slovenia has suffered a severe earthquake in the past period, this is said to have been the case since 1895, and at the same time, the country has devoted a great deal of resources to additional equipment and activities and to the network of observers themselves, and I am interested in sending my question to the Minister for Space and Environment, Janez Kopač. Is the Ministry planning any in-depth intervention in this activity, and if it intends to maintain part of the activity in the famous villa, which was then based on the idea of the famous Fabiania? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much, colleague of niggers. Minister Digger! If you'll excuse me, colleague Nigga? Can you turn it off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u87	Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable President and Others! The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Geophysics, as I know, has had long-standing spatial problems, as well as many other state institutions. In the past, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has dealt specifically with this and has joined with the support of the common services of the Government in the renovation of the tower in which Astra once worked for Bežigrad. This is a tower in Vienna 47, if I'm not mistaken. Although this column should have been renovated by December of last year, it was not, it has stalled a little. If I'm correctly informed, at the beginning of this month, I think it was on February 6th that they took over the building technically. In those days the Geophysics Administration, in short, theoretically the Geophysics Administration could have moved by now. Indeed, the problem is that there is a need to install certain equipment in these premises that will enable the establishment of a new network of earthquake monitors and that we do not have the money for this specific equipment. Thus, part of the staff from the Golovec Observatory will move to new premises already this month, but I cannot say anything concrete about this connection right now, because we do not have the resources to do so. This connection to the new earthquake observation network is probably what you were most interested in. By the way, I say that for quite some time, the Geophysics Administration at the customs warehouse has 25 earthquake monitors that were purchased after the earthquake in Posoča and are supposed to represent the skeletons of a new network, state observers. On the other hand, unfortunately, we do not have the money to pay the customs duties so that they can be released from the customs warehouse at all, nor do we, of course, have the money to install them later. This is what I am saying now, past your question, to illustrate this tribulation, which has also reflected on the question of the initiator who has presented this issue to you. This year we intend to install at least two of these 25 observational stations, in the Krske Field, and to include them in the network of state observation posts. This is expected to cost us about 120 million tolars, which we do not have in mind in the budget, but we will try to obtain a co-financing share of the Krka nuclear power plant. If we put at least these two observers, of which 25 are waiting in storage, we would probably be able to conclude the energy negotiating chapter with the European Union or with representatives of the European Union, where you know that we have an eternal problem with neighbouring Austria. I committed myself as Minister of Environment and Space in a letter to the European Union last week to secure the installation of these two observers. I don't know how this is going to work, but I'm going to do my best, because that's an international obligation now. So much for a short time or not, even a little wider on your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you have any further questions from your colleague? Can you turn off the minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your complete explanation. I will ask additional questions in writing, and I hope that this problem will be resolved in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Before I invite my colleague Dr. Joseph Bernick to the floor, let me say that he will be asked questions by colleagues Davorin Terčon, Jožef Jerovšek, Bogdan Barovič, Yuri Malovra, Peter Levič and Alojz Peterle. First, Dr. Joseph Bernick. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the government! Recently, a delegation of the International Monetary Fund was in Slovenia. We met with her on the finance committee. There were only a few of us, but this gentleman spoke without hair on his tongue. However, I have not heard this in the media and I would like to know why this gentleman changed his mind if he spoke so openly before. Maybe the Ministry will be able to explain that. The head of this mission was talking about four points. Of course, at first he politely acknowledged that Slovenia was in front of other Central European countries by entering the European Union and he also admitted that we had reformed and transformed, but he said literally this: "...you were working in your own way, carrying with you some baggage of the past, this luggage will remain with you." He said that integration into Europe is so important that we will have to or the government will have to change the way we work in this sense in order to adapt to standards that are appropriate for Europe. Slovenia is under the wake of the European Union and we cannot solve problems as easily as we have in the past. The most important thing he stressed is that controlling inflation will be very difficult. This is the first priority that the Slovenian government has. The deficit will not be 1%, nor 1.3%, but by European standards it will be closer to 2%. He wondered if Slovenian people would understand that. He said he was concerned about the lack of details coming to the public. Then he also talked about fighting competition and so on. The last point was very interesting He talked about reducing the role of the country in the economy and said that this is why Slovenia came to the second round of countries and that we will have to do everything we can to satisfy the people who are looking over our shoulder in the European Union. He concluded that the government was controlling 20% of the economy through funds, and he acknowledged that it had to be with ministers and so on, but no one told him what the government was planning to do about these funds. That would interest me, too. He said the report was coming soon. I wonder when it'll come if, like he wrote, or in some other way, it'll be cosmetically repaired. Now I ask you to tell me [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] whether the government agrees with these points and what it will do. [[...]] I'd like to see this report before we get a budget on our tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Dr. Bernick. Please, the government, Minister Rob.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u93	Dear Members and honourable Members! True, there was a delegation of the International Monetary Fund in Slovenia. I think that Mr Demekas has not changed his mind and has made his opinion quite clear. This means, of course, that the opinion of the delegation of the International Monetary Fund on development in Slovenia, regarding the state of public finances and also the perspectives of Slovenia, is positively and very favourablely assessed. It is explicitly stressed that Slovenia is leading the region and leading among all the countries that join or are candidates for membership in the European Union. Of course, all that we have pointed out in discussions with the delegation in this report is what we believe should be corrected or properly regulated in Slovenia. Together we were able to read his longer interview in the Saturday Annex, and I think that there is quite a full explanation of his view and the view of the delegation. It has certainly been pointed out that there are some areas that we will have to deal with in particular and, of course, take steps forward. This is, in particular, the problem of public sector wages and employment in the public sector, where it has been emphasized in particular that, while it is true that the European Union is a pressure on additional employment in certain areas of the public sector, in particular in certain agencies which are necessary for the use of structural funds when entering the European Union, as well as in certain other areas. It was stressed that particular attention should be paid to the area of transfers and further steps in the area of structural reforms in this area, the privatisation of banks and insurance companies and the abolition of funds. We have also made it very clear in the debates that we agree that some funds in Slovenia are such that, after the shortest possible procedure, they must be closed, in particular those that constitute an unadapted state aid system in Slovenia to the state aid system they know in the European Union. In particular, there was a talk about Slovenian development society. We have also made it very clear that we intend to abolish this fund in a very short time, or - I think that the Minister of Economy will also be able to say - come with a law on the privatisation of this fund. It was pointed out that, of course, the inflation that occurred last year, in particular due to some external factors, the one that needs to be looked at in particular and made sure that the price trends in the service sector do not give rise to additional pressures and, of course, also in those areas where the government still has certain powers. As far as the deficit is concerned, this report will also say later that Slovenia is, of course, using a system of wage realisation, which is an international monetary fund system. This uses the International Monetary Fund in all its statistics. According to this statistics, we also show our deficit. The European Union, however, is showing a deficit under the so-called ESA 95 methodology, which means an accrued realization. This, of course, means that the 22.8 billion that are now being transferred to this year, and therefore the deficit of 22.8 billion in 2001, as planned, would have been already in 2000, because the realization would have been accounted for. So for a half-percent point, it would have been stressed that, by a half-to-one percentage point, the deficit in 2000 would have been higher, but of course the deficit under such a methodology would have been lower, given what we are planning in the budget for 2001. Undoubtedly, however, what has been highlighted and what seems very important to me is that Slovenia, with the 2001 budget, breaks the trend of increasing deficits and increasing debt growth in the coming years. That's what we're aware of. And something else was said, given that you asked, of course, that there is a need to give a significantly greater emphasis to medium-term budgetary planning. It is only in this way that we can prevent the additional budgetary pressures that are constantly and virtually every day we are witnessing this. Even in some discussions today, we have seen some Members - which is of course normal - suggest that in some areas the budget assume additional obligations. This means, of course, additional pressure on expenditure and pressure on higher deficits. I would like to assure you that it has been agreed with the International Monetary Fund to prepare this report, and as soon as it has prepared it, it will also send it to Slovenia. I find it difficult to judge and tell you when they will prepare their report. We have certainly made our comments on their thesis in coordination with the Bank of Slovenia. Most of these comments were also duly taken into account. I understand this report, which was given by the International Monetary Fund, as a confirmation of some of the conclusions that we have come to ourselves, and in particular as supporting some of our activities in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, do you have an additional question? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you, for your explanation. This gentleman spoke of two reports, the preliminary one you would have commented on, and then the final report. Will we have the opportunity to see both reports and your comments?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Minister Rop!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u97	I would like to say that, of course, we made comments on the preliminary report. We will now wait for them to give, in short, if they take all these comments into account at the final stage. So I don't know if it makes sense to report on what they're going to fix themselves. I would suggest that we look together at the final version of the report, there, of course, will be seen all that was said, and all that they did not agree with us when we made comments. I therefore suggest that we take a closer look at the final report and our comments on the previous report, or even then the previous report, and we go to see this in a package because that is the whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. A colleague of Davorin Terchón, a colleague of Jožef Jerovšek, has the floor. We'll be grateful to Minister Kopach if he doesn't talk because he bothers the speakers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! I have two questions, essentially, on the same subject. They apply to long-term administrative procedures. First, I refer to the Minister, who I do not see or the Ministry of the Interior, and the second to the Ministry of Environment and Space. First, it concerns long-term administrative procedures for obtaining citizenship. When the parties submit a full application and are withdrawn from the administrative unit to the Ministry and the conditions for resolution are hypothetically met, hypothetically for the positive resolution of such applications, the proceedings at the Ministry shall take several months and even several years. I ask the Ministry of the Interior what is the cause of such long-term procedures and what it intends to do in the future so that these procedures are more rational and, above all, faster. The second question is for the Minister for Environment and Space. It refers, as I have already said, to administrative procedures, i.e. administrative proceedings in second-degree appeals, i.e. at the Ministry of Environment and Space, in the issue of location permits or building permits. This is also where the procedures take months and years. In these administrative procedures, I must say, they arise for the affected, either legal or natural persons, material consequences and damage. I am asking the Minister of Environment and Space what is the cause of such lengthy procedures. These procedures have been lengthy for a long time, including under the leadership of the Ministry by Dr. Gunter in his previous term. What will the Ministry do to make the procedures shorter and less harmful to customers?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Comrade Terchon. Who's going to answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u101	Ministry of the Interior, Astrid Prašnikar, Secretary of State. With regard to that issue, we have already drawn up measures at the Ministry of the Interior to speed up those backlogs, as well as measures to prepare procedures to run faster. Otherwise, in the Ministry of the Interior, we will prepare a longer answer to that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Minister Digger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to be very precise, because I haven't prepared myself, but I'm just going to present the problem in a descriptive manner. I think that this moment is at the second level of the unresolved around -- I'm really thinking a lot about -- about 1,200 things. The delay is approximately two years at this time, which is, of course, unacceptable in terms of legal certainty or legal protection of the parties in the proceedings. It is true, however, that such a situation has been accumulated for a long time and that it is mainly the fault of, in my opinion, somewhat inadequate legislation. In fact, the problems are even worse in the first stage, where we have individual administrative units - I think the worst case in Slovenia is the administrative unit Vič, where I think - again - I think - that 8,000 pending cases are. So I'm talking about major delays in resolving applications for site and building permits, and this is what I'm talking about in this answer. The big problem is the diction of the existing law on the regulation of premises and the law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions into a space which, in my opinion, in an inadequate way determines who is the party to the procedure. On the one hand, it includes many borders automatically between the parties in the procedure, which sometimes have no direct connection with the intended intervention itself in the space, but sometimes exclude potential customers in the process, which would have something to add. Otherwise, it is also a major problem that, which is practically an exception across Europe, only in Slovenia, except in one of the Western European countries, two permits, location and construction permits are issued for each intervention in the premises and that each of these two can be stopped and stuck. The new law on the regulation of space prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space will be first discussed in Parliament, with hopes that it will be completed in the first half of this year. [[This is also foreseen in the Government's work programme]] , provides, together with the new building law, only one permit to intervene into the premises. In addition, we intend to speed up the resolution of pending or pending cases, as I mentioned after a very grave memory, at the Ministry, in the department dealing with the second level. But I am sure that neither the accelerated work nor the new law will bring us salvation overnight. I will be very pleased if we can reduce backlogs very quickly. But I'm sure we'll put them out completely, unfortunately, we won't be out for a while. Otherwise, we intend, with some other simplifications in the administrative procedure, in addition to what I have mentioned, one instead of two permits, this is also a reduced number of consents and so on, to address some of the reasons for these backlogs. The number of parties to the proceedings entitled to complain and participate in an administrative dispute is also expected to be narrowed by a new law on the regulation of premises. Let me just put it as an illustration. When the fee for appeals to the administrative court is now very much on my mind again, because I am not prepared for this answer, I think it raised from the previous 270 tolars to, I think, I do think, 3,000 tolars, the number of cases or the number of complaints suddenly fell, not suddenly, but in a very short time, by 60. This means that if we're talking about 1,200 pending cases, 60 already means because a significant number is given this quantity. What I mean is that many appeals are also due to the sometimes shocking intentions of the one who causes the administrative dispute. The Coalition Treaty provides for this, and the law will, of course, hopefully include, some provisions that would reduce appetites after squeezing investment, triggering administrative disputes and thus eliminate one of the causes of these backlogs, as discussed by Member Terchón. That's it, that's it. However, if I had a question before, of course I would also be much more equipped with data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Comrade Terchon, would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Then he has the word of his colleague Joseph Jerovšek, Bogdan Barovich, Yuri Malovrev, Peter Levič and Aloise Peterle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking the government the following question. The Committee on the Economy held a meeting on Friday, 16.2., during the debate on harmful electricity trade in the past years, it was found that the field of energy did not actually have a competent minister. It has turned out that there is a complete anarchy in this area and that in the shadow of this anarchy, adverse decisions are being taken as a country for which there is no clear responsibility bearer. Despite the Committee's request and the importance of the topic, Minister Petrinov avoided representing the government. It also turned out that neither of the State Secretaries of this Ministry covers the area. So after three months of establishing the government, I ask the Government whether it has finally taken a decision on which ministry will be responsible for energy. The fact that the Minister of Economy defends this area cannot be the reason for the transfer of the area to the Ministry of Environment and Space because it is an eminent economic activity. That, just prior to the opening of the energy market, the government is consciously maintaining anarchy and disgovernance, also notes the Energy Association at the Chamber of Commerce, which, in a decision sent to the Committee on the Economy, notes, quote: "Now the energy economy does not have a real interlocutor, so it is necessary to define clearly the Ministry responsible for energy." I ask what is the purpose of the transfer of activities to and from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the public. As a result of such a situation, the state is now losing billions of tolars at a low price on the account of electricity sales, as it has apparently missed the opportunity to harmonise long-term contracts for the sale of electricity surpluses for 2001. The electricity market, with the approval of the government, regains the private interests of the so-called "energy mafia". In addition, economic damage is also being done to other sectors of the economy, as powerlessness does not result in electricity consensus and is practically without energy policy. Once again, I ask whether the government is prepared to protect the interests of the state and the economy or to insist on the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Which one of the government representatives? Secretary General, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. The state administration system and responsibilities of the Ministry are clearly laid down. Under the current legislation, the energy sector belongs to the Ministry of Economic Activities or to the economy, as it is called. It is true that the government is preparing a new regulation, a new law on organisation and work in the field of ministries, which will be dealt with shortly. I have previously announced to the College of the President of the National Assembly that we will present it for consideration at the March meeting of the National Assembly. A key content will be the harmonisation of this law with the amendment of the Government Act, which also requires the harmonisation of the organisational law, in view of changes in the structure of the government. In this law, we will also regulate the transfer of powers, if, of course, this is also accepted, to regulate the transfer of power from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Environment and Space. There are no public reasons for this transmission. The reasons why this is proposed will be clearly stated in the explanation of the bill to be sent. But they're purely rationalizational. Nevertheless, I must say that the field of energy is not uncovered, nor do I know any case, nor do I know any complaints that there would be procedures anywhere concerning energy consensus. Nor is it true that the country would not have an energy policy. All these acts were adopted on time and the state and, of course, its government is working exclusively in the interests of taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much. My friend Jerovšek wants to ask a further question. And I'd like to ask my colleague Feri and colleague Terchón if you don't mind talking about the session. Thank you very much. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary-General of the Government has served us with some Flossules that are confusing the situation. Why, if the government had purposed to draw up a coalition treaty for so long, in which, as they now say, the coalition constitution, which denies the second constitution, did not foresee this change in the area at that time. This blurs, allows billions of state money to flow into completely different hands. The state does not implement energy policy and this situation cannot continue. If it were clear and, if so, why did the Minister not wish to participate in such an important meeting? Why is the government avoiding all responsibility and abandoning itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u111	Well, I'll say it again. The government is operating under a coalition contract, but it cannot make it happen overnight. The amendment of the Government Act, which was adopted at the time following a rapid procedure, simply adopted what could be realized at that time and what could be realized by the amendment of the Government Act. That regulation did not affect the working areas of individual ministries. As it is said, at the March session, we count on the National Assembly to adopt a change in the organisational law. Nevertheless, I must, of course, deny that the government would not be aware of responsibility. The government is acting responsibly. I think that she has also acted responsibly and made the right moves in the field of energy and in Eles. Of course, we can discuss the importance of the Committee's meeting. She's more important to someone than anyone else. I already think that at this meeting of the Committee, there have been cases that may not have been as relevant as they may have been for the Member. Nevertheless, of course, the Minister has her duties and the Government has sent its representatives to the meeting of the Committee with all the powers they had. The fact that the government has avoided dealing with this issue would certainly not have been the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the executive branch of the Authority, respected colleagues. The first question is about the entry and transit of Slovenian trucks into France and across France. On 7 March, an agreement was signed between France and Slovenia. It was signed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, with the presence of the shareholders of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which did not notify about the signed agreement, so claimed in the Intertransport Chamber of Economic Interest, the driver. But everything was nice and right until they received some calls from drivers, members, Slovenians who stopped at the French border and needed help. Because GIS wanted to help and because he didn't know what it was, they were looking for an explanation in Slovenia first. They didn't get it, so they turned to the French. These served them with a record of the last meeting, a mixed French-Slovenian Road Traffic Commission, of 7 March 2000. What was in this agreement? First time. On the proposal of the Slovenian participants of the meeting that the transit of Slovenian trucks through France should be fully released or that the quantity of transit licences should be increased to the extent necessary by the Republic of Slovenia to the French carriers, the Slovenian request was slightly rejected. Another time. According to the French opinion, Slovenian carriers have free transit through the territory of the European Union, not through France. Third time. The Slovenian delegation allowed the entry into the record of an unacceptable and divergent French proposal that French licences for the entry of Slovenian trucks into France may be used in the future only for Euro 2 environmental quality vehicles. This means that Euro 2 drives have been in force since 1 October 1996, which means it is prohibited to enter Slovenian trucks older than this date. I'm asking. Is the agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Slovenia still in force? Does the European Union, including France, have a duty to respect the provisions of this Agreement? What country in this world conditions the entry of vehicles of age and not just technical capacity? In the meantime, could the Vienna Convention be repealed, under which States have undertaken to respect the technical capabilities of vehicles in the country of origin? And the third time. Why has GIS received no notification of the signed agreement? Also, if you allow me, time allows me, an initiative, in fact, more of a request from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, linked to Zasavje, specifically to the regional road Trbovlje-Čeče-Marco, in fact to 150 meters long section, which is being repaired by the beach, handled, closed for four years and is a bag without the bottom of the taxpayer's money. I am sure that this 150 meters long section can be resolved quickly, so I ask the Ministry to speed up the solution at the appropriate department. Let it be done, I think it's already done, the project, let the work finish quickly, so we'll save a lot of money, 200 people save three times the length of the road, and something else, we'll save traffic between the Rippers and the Hrastniks, because the main road is being repaired and causing unbearable congestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Which member of the government wants to answer? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! I will try to answer briefly, and we will prepare detailed answers in writing. The issue of licences, in the form of information, is multilayered because the agreement in force with the European Union provides, at the same time, that we must negotiate transitions with each country in particular. So far, we have asked the European Union authorities to help us negotiate with individual countries. Here I would particularly point out that we have problems with access to the Netherlands and Norway, where we are passing the countries of the European Union for which we have not yet been able to obtain permits and this process of acquisition is still in progress. The agreement itself with the European Union, which allows us to do so, is not sufficient in these cases. A deeper written answer will be delivered to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u116	My friend Barovic wants to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u117	No, I would just like to thank you for being considerate, and I would really ask again if I could get a written answer. I also ask you nicely, and I hope that you have not overheared the other part, those requests where this is a really big austerity effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Yuri Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. My question concerns the Ministry of the Environment, which has reacted differently in three of the same procedures: for the first time it issued a ban, for the second time it was the silence of the Authority, and for the third time it was consent or support. The first relates to the asphalt blender in the Mountain village of Šentjur, where a asphalt blender was planned in the yard of the former concrete and concrete workshops. Following the written warning of the construction inspector, the black builder Kovač Mirko s.p. has initiated a legalisation procedure, which the municipality, after its adoption, would have supported, given that this acquisition would have been a demographically endangered place, about 20 to 25 jobs. The Constitutional Court annulled a decree which was not in the longer term 1986-2000. This raises the question of what about customs and border police stations with Croatia, which were also not in the long term. The representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, here I am referring to the inspection, and in this village on 6.7.1999, at the assistance of approximately 50 to the teeth of armed police officers in bulletproof jackets, with marks and dogs, stopped further construction, even though there were only three workers in the workplace. Rumor has it that the construction was prevented by a asphalt lobby picking up cream here. A chronological review of procedures and events is also provided. The second question concerns, i.e. the second example, the construction of the "Say Centre" premises or as they renamed it the ecological farm of Planinca 1. This farm is a 17-acre farm purchased by Aloysija Erjavec, who is the head of the Say Babe sect in India. The municipality was informed of the planned construction of the "Say Centre" for Slovenia, but earlier it wanted to build this "Say Center" in Mokronog or buy the castle Visoko in the Poljanska Valley. We reminded her of the correctness of the procedure, which she did not follow, but she started building a residential building in the soil area of 550 m2, in three floors, together about 1300 m2, under the pretext that it is an organic farm that deals only with organic farming. To this end, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as members of the sect, also introduced public works without the consent of the local community as an organic farm. The construction inspector wrote only pious records of the halting of works that the blacksmith did not take into account. Black construction, which is in the form of a monastery, is in a reptile and earthquake area and is not professionally controlled and can also be human victims in the event of a natural disaster. It's also a question of where the asset came from. A third similar question concerns the helioport under the barrier from the orchard of Cinkarna Celje. Under the landfill of Lake Cinkarna Celje, a helioport was built, although by the decree of the municipalities Celje and Šentjur, in which the area lies, construction of buildings under the barrier is expressly prohibited. Construction is recorded as black construction. The Air Traffic Control Authority has issued the necessary air clearance and, according to rumours, the Ministry of Health has also signed a contract with Hudournik, who manages this matter, for the transport of seriously ill or injured persons. In all these cases, the citizens of the congregation of Šentjur ask themselves where the rule of law is, and they wonder about the inefficiency, i.e. the effectiveness of inspection services. And the question is: How should the local community proceed in the case of smaller black buildings, garages and fences? I have another question, if it can go on, shorter.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u120	No, you can't because time limits everything the same. You can ask this as an additional question. Who wants to respond to government representatives? Minister Digger!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you for asking. There were three questions, actually. Your question was why the Ministry acted differently in three different cases. The answer is: the Ministry or inspection of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space does not act differently, it does the same, it is always teasing the law. It is true, however, that you, Mr Mayor, wished - at least in the case of the asphalt blender - that the measure given by the inspection would not be carried out. Finally, however, the pressure of the surrounding population in 1999 was such that the measure had to be implemented and I think it was right that it was. This was a measure of removing the mixing drum in this asphalt blender in the Mountain Village. Well, you mentioned two other cases - the helidrome at the plantation of Cinkarna Celje and this so-called ecological farm of Planinca 1, run by Alojsija Erjavec or some sect. In both cases, it's really black construction and if I go in line. The helidrome at the seedyard was, although the air navigation management gave him permission to fly, the company Hudournik, which is the only company that has - a private company - three helicopters and deals with emergency transport. However, it is a fact that this heliodrome was built without a location permit and that the inspection of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space has already issued a so-called removal decision under Article 73 of the Settlements Regulation Act. The deadline for removal has already expired and, of course, the inspection will continue to take action in accordance with the law. Another example you cited is this so-called ecological farm of Planinca 1 or at least a sect or something like that led by Aloysija Erjavec or where he is a formal investor of Aloysija Erjavec. Well, that's the case. Alojsia Erjavecne wants to maintain the existing buildings of an old farm that is visibly falling apart, and it is home to members - these or its associates or whatever they are called - and so is she. [[...]] In addition to this building, they are building an actual new building, as you mentioned in your question. I don't know about the floris, you said it was 550 square meters. The inspection has also issued a halting decision under Article 73 of the Settlements Regulation Act in this case, and it is also true that this Mrs Alojsija Erjavec does not want and has not stopped the part and, of course, the inspection will continue to follow the law or in accordance with its powers. This case is quite interesting and is particularly special because Mrs Aloysija Erjavec consciously does not want to maintain an existing house, which has already become a danger to the residents who are in the house. The problem is that the inspection under the existing law does not have the right to issue a removal decision for an object that is only dangerous to the inhabitants of this facility. The inspection has the possibility, it has the legal authority to issue a removal decision in those cases where the facility threatens the survivors - let's say it is a decomposing house on some important street or market or something. But he has no right to remove, command the removal of the facility, where this facility is only dangerous to the inhabitants of this house. And this Mrs Aloysija Erjavec would like to see the inspection issue a removal decision for this facility, in which she lives, and therefore does not knowingly support it, if on this basis she would get a replacement construction, there in the immediate neighborhood, and this is this black construction. However, even if an inspection wanted to do so, it cannot do so, it does not have the legal authority to do so, and of course it will not do so. The fact is that the problem is that Mrs Aloysia Erjavec wrote in all possible forums, including in the National Assembly, to the Committee on Petitions and the President of the National Assembly, and I think that the Ombudsman is human rights, etc., as is the case in such cases, several times the custom, and I now explain this only for an illustration of this case. The answer to your question is therefore direct: the inspection of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space in all cases of black construction is the same. Follow the legal procedure and in cases where black construction has not yet been removed, of course we will try to do so as soon as possible. However, in the undertone, I must say that where there is a threat to a large number of people or a disturbance to a large number of people in a space, the inspection is more intensive in dealing with the case, and where there is some black construction that may not directly endanger anyone, it does not pay as much attention as in those first cases. But it's always legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Comrade Malover has an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u123	Well, I would not fully agree with the Minister here, and yet I will repeat the second question, another small issue may be the abuse of the law on societies in the area of the Celje region. It refers to the Ministry of Economy, namely, in the celery area, some innkeepers who carried out their activities far into the late night or early morning hours, especially at the end of the week, and who were opposed to such opening times by the local communities and consequently by local communities, have been renamed social groups. This is also the case in Shentjury, where the Zapata Night Club closed up as a recreational and entertainment company for the B52 club, which lists social activities in the founding acts, and in fact only performs catering activities. According to the Social Act, the local community has no influence, especially not on opening time. It is questionable, however, to respect other legislation, tax evasion, health checks, employment in black. It's also, sort of, rumoredly, suspected of fuelling drugs. We are taking the initiative of the Ministry of Economic Activities and the Government, due to a legal void, to amend the law on societies and to amend the law on hospitality. A similar initiative was given by the municipal council of Celje. The documentation on the event or the case can be obtained from the administrative unit of Šentjur, the municipality of Šentjur, the police station of Šentjur and the judge for the offences. But I ask if the Ministry is aware of the abuse of legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u124	I would like to invite the government to answer briefly, with my colleague Malovrev and others reminding me that this was not an additional question, but a new question. It is not possible to change things back, but the Minister will be kind and will answer this additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u125	Very briefly. Dear Member, honourable Members and other honourable Members! Yes, we are familiar with this initiative and our legal service is already studying how to act in this case. We will also form an Inter-Resort Group, and we can also introduce you personally to the results of this report. But it's in progress, and then we'll come up with suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. My friend Peter Levich has a question, followed by his colleague, Lois Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u127	Nice greetings to all present! I have a question about youth centres - youth issues. Youth centres in the Republic of Slovenia are institutions in which various activities are being carried out for young people and, in particular, for useful leisure activities for young people. They implement informal youth education programmes, computer courses, different foreign language courses, learning alternative music and so on. In addition, youth centres are mostly non-profit organisations, which provide funding for the implementation of quality youth projects. With a view to regulating their status and providing certain facilities for their operations, I raise the following questions: When the youth centre will be recognised as a cultural venue, as youth centres are now obliged to report on each individual public event, which, in addition to limiting their activities, is also a significant cost [[the case is the organisation of youth cultural weeks where we have to report an event every day, which is not cheap, and it is technically very difficult to perform]] . Why youth centres are not given the status of non-formal educational institutions, as we place great emphasis on the education of young people in youth centres. This would exempt youth centres from payment of RTV subscriptions as they would be exempt from the RTV Act [[Article 15a, fourth indent]] classified as other debtors who are exempt from payment of this contribution. And then there's the third question. The copyright law imposes payment of certain amounts to SAZAS for the performance of live and mechanical music in the public. When the status of youth centres will be regulated, they will be classified in Article 5 of the Rules on public implementation and representation of musical works in addition to teaching and school events, as youth centres are currently aligned with guest restaurants, discotheques and the like. In youth centres we have many different lectures, education, where audio-visual means are also used. We are looking at cultural and music shows that we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Which of the ministers or ministers will answer that question? Please! Maybe it would be right for the director of the office to answer. Secretary General!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u129	I apologize for not being able to give the Member an oral answer to this question today. But I assure him that within five days he will receive it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u130	My friend Peter Levich agrees. Then we can move on with the questions. A colleague of Aloise Peterle has the floor, followed by Alexander Merlo, Rudolf Petan and colleague Sonja Areh-Lavrich. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Respectable, representatives and representatives of the government. Once in a not-so-distant period of socialist self-government, one of the ministers of the then government - I think even of the Slovenian family - was launching one of the famous slogans, which is or has been said that we are all citizens to be diplomats. It kind of caught up at the time. I have come to this memory as I accompany the Minister of Foreign Affairs' public campaign on the so-called G-point, with undiscovered purposes of kamasatric associativity. I would like to say that, as far as I can understand the diplomatic business, and especially as far as I know the history of border agreements, border issues, I do not believe that we can go far this way. I would like to be diagnosed, I would like to be clear why, after years of failed negotiation, why our foreign minister is now going through the public to try this rescue. Now, if this is just a smoke screen because of the failed negotiations at diplomatic level, then it's too bad. If this is, I'd say, the minister's promotion needs are not much worse. But if this is the same, I would say, part of some agreed game - it's possible it's different. So, I don't believe that this way - if we call this pressure on a partner with whom we have to deal with this; so I don't believe that pressure can get to any smart or understanding point. It's probably only possible to come up with an agreement. I'd like a little more, I'd say, light in this regard. Because I don't want the sea border to fall into the water, I have one initiative and I have one question. The initiative refers to the fact that the Minister would do less in public, especially if this is not agreed with the Croatians. The question, however, relates to the work of the mixed diplomatic commission for the border. I wonder if this time is going on to test different ideas on how to fix this matter. Have these two committees met at the time of the new government? Is this about any new facts? And, of course, I do not expect the Secretary of State to say anything but what he can or can say about the nature of the matter. But I would be most pleased if there was relatively little talk about this matter, the public, and that the government would surprise us with a solution that they would applaud. But in public space, I don't think we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to [[...]] [[I'm sorry.]] Do you want me to stop? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u134	No, no. No, you're just about to start!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I thank you for Mr Peterlet's insight into what I know and what I have to say. Surely these are questions that require a written answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u136	Would you like another question, Comrade Peterle? No, no, no. Okay. Then he's got a word for you, colleague Alexander Merlo and Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In view of the fact that the Minister is not at present, the Ministry of the Interior is asking what you can tell us about the current pressure of refugees on our borders. What is new about setting up refugee centres or their locations? And the third. Do you believe that the financial resources for this are sufficient at present and what you can expect in the future, will they be sufficient in this year as well, or will there be something else to be added to the intervention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u138	However, the question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Would you like one, Madam Secretary of State? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you. We will prepare a written answer at the Ministry of the Interior, given that the question is difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much. My colleague, Rudolf Petan, then Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič, has the floor of his colleague Merl.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. So my question also concerns the subject, the issue of refugees, but from a slightly different point of view, so I will read it anyway. I would like to avoid any ideological notes, so I will try to ask the question on the basis of facts and, of course, that is the answer I would like. The fact is that the problem of refugees is increasingly pressing, and also every day we get new dimensions because Slovenia does not control border control with Croatia and Hungary. Because that's the main problem, that's the reason. What we hear repeatedly about impatience is, in fact, the consequences of the basic question. It is also a fact that, because of the resistance of the local population against the installation of a large number of refugees in their place, we were able to track the information of the Ministry of the Interior - now I do not know whether it was just a fire extinguisher or a real program, because if it is, then I would like to ask a few questions. In view of the fact that the government said that the government would place refugees in a large number of centres, that the concentration would not be so great that, say, the number of these people in a particular place could exceed the number of local populations several times, and information was given that the government was preparing a new home instead of a home in Ljubljana. And I'm asking the following questions. I wonder how many of these locations are supposed to be? That's what I think can be answered. A little harder on the following question: Where are these locations? Are these existing buildings and how many new buildings and, of course, adaptations should be made? In particular, how much money would be needed for this new home or new homes? And of course: for adaptation, if envisaged and if all these funds are covered in this year's budget? We don't know him yet, but the government has already adopted its budget and, of course, I would like an answer to that. That's one set. The second set, of course, refers to the very reasons. The reason, as I have already said, is the inability or unwillingness of Slovenia to somehow prevent illegal entry into the country or at least restrict it to Slovenia, for the number of inhabitants it has, a bearable number. We know that it is entirely 100% hermetically impossible to close that refugees will always be, it is only a question of the number that is still acceptable for Slovenia and it is appropriate that there are no problems in which we are now. We know there's a lot of restraints. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I immediately conclude, Slovenians, of course the epilogue in the courts received this even less, and therefore I ask how the government intends to organise this protection of the Slovenian border, which is the cause of all these events and the rumors of xenophobia and hatred, these are the consequences. [[...]] And if the government thinks he's going to fix it, or maybe he thinks it's well arranged now. I would, of course, like an answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. The government. Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u143	The question is the same as that of the previous member of the national assembly. It's written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Sonja Areh Lavrich. Please. Can you turn it off, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! I ask the Minister for Information Society, Mr Pavl Gantar, why Slovenia is still the leading country in Europe after a percentage of the drain of Slovenian intelligence abroad. I kindly ask the government not to offer us answers such as: the smallness of the country, the lack of money, resources, conditions and so on. I was happy to read this morning in the daily newspaper about the extraordinary success of Mr Matjaž Roglja, who became a world computer champion yesterday. I would like to know whether the Government is thinking of any way to reward this extraordinary success of Mr Roglj or whether it will be another extraordinary potential to travel abroad, as it has been for many people. It is precisely because of such behaviours that our companies in some Slovenian regions run, that are non-experts who cause these companies to fail or make incomprehensible moves. As an example: Elektro Celje, business unit Slovenj Gradec, where there will be mainly due to incompetence, loss in jobs and money. I would like to know when the government will prepare a programme that will listen in the future to stop the escape of Slovenian brains abroad and prevent the poverty of the provinces, such as Koroška, Prekmurje, Primorska, Dolenjska etc., and thus help Europe in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u146	Please, which one of the competent ministers wants to answer this question? Of course, we congratulate Ambassadors and Members to the new world champion, Mr Rogle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I would say that the issue of the departure of Slovenian intelligence abroad is, of course, a very complex question and relates to a number of issues: from, of course, the school education system to the possibility of employment and professions in Slovenia. With regard to the professions of computer science, it is important to say that there is a lack of staff in Europe. The numbers are very large. So that this movement in Europe is, of course, happening from less developed information to more developed and from Europe to America, of course. It's a trend that's observable. This is why, of course, the government intends, in particular through the State Programme for the Transitional Information Society, to speed up and encourage those processes that will allow young people, i.e. in the field of computer science, to stay home so that they can get work and work at home and work on the global network, if I say so, from Slovenia out. So do not sell, I would say, your work, but the product of this Slovenia all over the world. There are several types of measures to follow. Measures to encourage high-tech enterprises and software. At the same time, of course, we will also treat Mr Roglje, who has received this award, as soon as we contact him, of course. As far as the question of other companies is concerned, if I understand you correctly, energy, electricity, of course, I cannot comment on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Lavriceva, would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer, behind him is colleague Janez Cimperman and Mr Gasparini. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u149	Mr President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greetings to all members of the government. Dear fellow Members. I would like to ask the question of the rights of day and week break of workers employed in trade. Above all, in the area of trade, we have long observed that working time is extended across borders, even at the end of the week, on Sunday, which causes problems for workers, in particular workers, both in families and beyond. In particular, this applies to younger workers. This, of course, destroys family life and weakens standards of life and personal development. However, this also has long-term economic consequences in Slovenia and will have them. Clearly, it is a violation of labour law, particularly as regards the prescribed daily and weekly leave, which is usually difficult to prove, as problems arise with the registration of arrivals and departures, i.e. the registration of work in the workplace. I now raise a question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs: What has the Ministry done so far to reduce and eliminate violations of the rights to the daily and weekly break of workers employed in trade? And the next question: Are you planning to introduce tighter inspection controls in traders? I would also like to know, of course, what are the results with regard to the steps you have already taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Which of the government's representatives will respond? Madam Secretary of State of Belopavlovich, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u151	Dear Member! The fact is, there have been errors or problems in terms of working time, weekly and daily rest, indemnities, working hours in trade for some time now. In fact, our inspection has been attentive all the time, following these things and has been working in the past year on a number of targeted actions, targeted reviews mainly in large shopping centres, such as Leclerc, Mercator, not to mention others, but also with smaller employers. We're in contact with a trade and hospitality union. It was just last week that there was such a meeting with representatives of the trade unions of this sector at the Ministry of Labour. We have agreed on some accelerated measures, accelerated action, and work both an inspection for work in this area and other inspections. In short, this surveillance has been strengthened and, of course, inspected in all those cases where it has been specifically alerted, as well as when carrying out these targeted actions - the targeted actions are actually going to a particular sector with the aim of reviewing a particular area, and this is the area of working time, employment, redistribution and so on. So these things are happening rapidly, and we are particularly in touch with trade unions, who point out where these problems are more pressing, where things are worth looking more closely, or where action is needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, an additional question? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u153	I'm asking an additional question. There are usually problems with registration. If we do not have a registered working time, so if workers do not necessarily register, the infringement is difficult to detect. I am therefore interested in this - therefore, I am asking an additional question - what is the nature of the rules governing compulsory registration, i.e. the presence of working time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u154	Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u155	There is a law on labour records. It's a law that requires registration of all the work that is done on a regular basis, that is, overtime, alternating work, night work. So this registration exists. On the other hand, there is something to know. That we have explicitly agreed with the inspection that the number of employees will also be checked according to operating hours. This is said to be the case for how many regular jobs a person can perform - that is 40 hours a week - and those possible overtimes that are possible within a week of eight hours or 20 months or in 180 years to actually divide this fund of hours into the number of employees. So it can also be seen whether, at any time in business such as some stores have, it is possible to do so in this working time with as many employees as they have registered or have concluded employment contracts, including that fund, the annual regular working time fund and overtime. So this is also one perspective and one aspect to control this way of working.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Comrade Cimperman, you have the floor. After you, Comrade Gasparini, Dr. Maria Ana Tisovic and France Tsukjat. Please! Comrade Cimperman apologizes and will submit the questions in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Then I would like to invite my colleague Gasparini to the floor. Mr. Gasparini, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Traffic accidents happen only on all roads in Slovenia. But if they happen in a place often, then we talk about so-called black spots. Well, one of those black points, which is the exit or, if you want, the highway connection on the road - at Klanc, was open three, four months ago. Let me remind you that last week these two young people were killed there, too. This connection is impenetrable, I'll say. Many of these traffic signs, many traffic signs, many of these boards, speed limits and all. In my opinion, all of this helps to make it even more imprudent, especially if it comes from the highway outside against the Petrinians. I ask, so the Ministry of Transport, does he mean anything with Dars, with the Roads Directorate - I don't know, the police don't have a dark spot, unless they punish those who go over 40, what's the limit? But it's very urgent for anything to be settled there. It is a curve and it is opaque, very risky, in fact, the entrance to the highway is so marked that I don't know what else to tell you. But I think we need to work this out. That's where they rolled over, killed each other, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u159	Minister of Transport, probably. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador. Well, I don't know the answer now. We will require, if it has not been done yet, the re-checking of the complete traffic signalling from the point of view of traffic safety and we will: firstly - give you an answer and secondly - also take appropriate action if it is found that there is a need to act by means of signalling and traffic regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We can move on. First, I invite you to the word of Dr. Maria Ana Tisovic, followed by my colleague Tsukjat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I welcome you all very warmly. I would like to address my question to the Secretariat for Education and Sport, which provides us with information, including in the media, that the functional literacy or illiteracy of Slovenians is very low. I would therefore like to ask what you plan to do about this, asking you: Will you change the doctrine of the entire compulsory school from an efficacious factual orientation to a substantively interconnected and rationally oriented school? Another time. Whether you will give even greater emphasis to lifelong education, perhaps by encouraging individuals on the one hand, and on the other hand by committing employers to give greater emphasis to the education of their staff not only on the management part of the staff, but also on all the others, on all profiles. Third time. Or you will require universities and scientific research institutes to organise and conduct continuous education of technical, professional and highly educated staff on innovations in their fields, which should, of course, be financed by part of the company and partly by the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for this matter. At least the first three questions can be answered with satisfaction: yes. The reform of the Slovenian educational system is precisely the direction you have been alerting, that is, instead of the factographic knowledge of more education for the development of skills, for lifelong learning, etc. With regard to lifelong education, the proposal for a national programme is also heading in the direction you spoke about. On the fourth question, however, I think we will try to obtain a more detailed response to the competences of the higher education sector and will present it to you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Before we conclude today's work by informing us of the resignation of individual officials of the National Assembly, we still have seven reported questions or initiatives. On the order of business, colleagues France Cukjati, Ivam Mamić, colleague Sušnik, colleague Majda Zupan, colleague Branko Kelemin, colleague of Cebulj and at the end of colleague Jože Tanko. Let's go in order, first of all, colleague France Tsukati. Please. My friend Tuck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u166	Good-bye. Your Honor! My question is addressed to the Ministry of Health, which is the following. Days ago, the media summarized the Ministry of Health's intention to radically change the way the basic health programme is designed and evaluated. The general medicine outpatient programme has so far been designed and evaluated according to the number of patients identified - this is the number of patients gravitating to the infirmary - as well as the extent of the work done - this is the number of visits and services provided. In the future, the Minister is expected to evaluate the infirmary programme only by the number of patients identified, that is, without regard to the extent of the outpatient work done. Given that Slovenian patients visit a general doctor on average more often than average European patients and that frequent visits to a doctor after an unnecessary waiting room, a longer waiting period and a lower quality of medical treatment, I ask: Does the Ministry of Health intend to completely shake off the task of solving the problem of crowded waiting rooms? Does Mr. Minister want to decide how many patients the doctor should examine or how many times a year the average Slovenian should reach a doctor, leave it to the doctor entirely, or does he intend to instruct the doctor to treat everything and immediately, as they wish? This would make waiting rooms even more full, and those who really need medical attention would find it even harder to get to a doctor. European experience clearly shows that demand for health services is one of the key public health issues; issues that can only be addressed by a clear and decisive national health policy. Should the intention of the Ministry of Health therefore be understood as a prediction that the Ministry will avoid solving the more difficult issues of Slovenian health in this mandate? Let this mean that the Ministry will try to place these issues on the shoulders of those who do not have the authority and not the political leverage to resolve them - this is on the shoulders of the direct health service, and to the detriment of all, but especially of those who really need health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Dr. Cuckoo, for asking the question. I would like to reply to you that the Ministry of Health does not intend to avoid the more difficult health problems. On the contrary, we're getting them. We have also seen this problem of overload of general doctors. We have also seen this problem that a Slovenian patient on average or a Slovenian citizen visits a doctor seven and a half times a year compared to some other cases in other countries where citizens are far less visited by doctors. Our view of this problem is that just the existing general ambulance funding system has caused this problem, that patients may be ordered too often for individual examinations or that they appear too often in waiting rooms. That is why, together with a health insurance company or health insurance agency and other partners in the general agreement process for the contract year, we have agreed on or initiated processes to limit these problems to this extent in order to meet the pressing problems in the health treasury and at the same time the overload of Slovenian general doctors. Our vision is that when we tie the payment system to the principal and at the same time - I must say this or add this - we will prepare certain elements of motivation for more prevention, for a smaller trip to the secondary level, so that we will allow these problems to be resolved. If you wish, however, in accordance with the deadlines for this parliamentary question, you might be able to prepare a more detailed answer to this question, where we would describe our intentions or visions as we have at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Another question? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u170	Well, the heart of the problem is that the ministry has taken the path that may be suitable only for specialist activity, but not for general ambulances where the doctor can't regulate the demands in any way, because people come and when they come, they have to deal with them. And the approach itself will probably - if done - as I predicted in the original question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you. So the model itself is much more complex, so I suggest we explain in writing and possibly meet and explain further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Excuse me? There's no further question. My friend Ivan Mamić has a question, followed by his colleague Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! I have two questions from the field. The first question is ecologically, from Posoča. This is a question for the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Kopač, regarding the burning of meat flour in the Anhovo cement plant. Since we have a lot of work and contacts with people on the ground, they have asked me the question of being afraid, but they are skeptical that the story of asbestos, which has brought huge accidents to the Channel Valley, will not happen again. So they say about a thousand people are sick because of this asbestos. [[The case of the late Mr Stanič is also known]] . I ask whether we can be assured that the analysis before burning meat flour - if any analysis, with what results, of course, is tangible. And what results are then, after the incinerator. If something like this is done or is about to be done, and with that information, I'm going to go out with people and tell them. I'd be very pleased to have that answer that they've already got on TV that there's nothing wrong with it, that there's nothing objectionable, but they're afraid because all these years they've been producing asbestos-cement products like pipes, and the saloon plates have remained these criticisms so that it doesn't happen again. The second question is from the Vipavska Valley for the Ministry of Transport. I think it's 12 cases that didn't agree to sell off the land for the construction of a fast road and, of course, then it went out of business and after the process, the road did; but for more than 3 years, what the road was open, they didn't get the payment for that land that the country took away from them. And now, of course, they're asking me if I'm going to push this thing a little further and that you're going to want an answer to what it's like. But I do have another question here from Parliament. What Mr Jelinčič put up at the opening of this hall: how it is with these microphones, whether they will be extended and if a shelf is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much. On the second question, I have already explained that the technical services are doing their best. Today, the sound is better than it was, and new microphones are being prepared, so this will be even better. Would anyone like to answer my colleague Mamić's first question? Please, Minister Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to answer your question about incineration - so far fat, potentially bone meal - in the Anhovo cement plant. These explanations that you want from me have already been given to the inhabitants of Deskel and Anhove, but of course there is never enough information, especially with such a sensitive topic. Undisputedly, diagrams can also show how the use of meat-bone meal or animal fats as energy is much cleaner for the environment, such as the use of mazute. Cementarna Anhovo is working on the ointment. Mazut is the main fuel, and they burn other things, but it's mostly energy mazute. I hope to state with responsibility that if we use exclusively and only bone meal and animal fat instead of ointment, emissions would be significantly lower than they are today. This is, as I say, proved by the diagrams, because in the experimental combustion of animal fats in the Anhovo cement plant, by special order, the Institute for Health Protection of Maribor also brought mobile measuring devices there. As for the burning of bone flour, we have very good measurements taken from the case of the incinerator in Lendava. So these results exist and are not only soothing, but are exhilarating for the use of bone-meat flour and animal fats as an energy. I'm sure it's one of the -- I'm not going to say that I don't know what kind of energy future depends on it, but I'm sure it's one of the many energy players of the future. However, I believe that the fear of asbestos in the valley around Anhove is great, but I must point out that asbestos was a product and not an energy. I would understand the equation of fear of emissions from chimneys if it were fears of mazute higher-a-vis fear of incineration, for example. animal fats. But it's about fears about two different things. Well, whatever. If we can also, with your help, further information to convince the population of the safety of using this energy, of course, we will be very pleased. But I would like to say something else about burning bone meal and animal fat. When I was a kid, we used to use candles at home. Loyal as an energy is humanity using centuries and millenniums, and I don't understand, I really don't understand this great fear that some people actually set on fire in the event of the burning of fat in the Anhovo cement plant. That's what I'd like to say. By the end of last year, the cement plant Anhovo was operating or incinerated in accordance with existing regulations and in accordance with existing permits. It's in repair right now, and I think they're installing new measuring devices and devices to prevent potentially harmful emissions. I think they will restart the plant at the beginning of March and, of course, they will have to take into account the substantially sharper conditions that apply to them after the transitional period, which ended at the end of last year. I would therefore like to say that the new rules, which are sharper, are one which will have to be respected by the Anho cement plant and, in so far as they can demonstrate compliance with these rules, they will be allowed to smoke, which they will be able to do, which will go beyond the emissions allowed, and they will not be allowed to do so. So right now, I can't tell you if all the energy they've been using is going to be [[Rubber, waste oils, etc.]] Or they'll be able to smoke them in the future. If they meet the new stricter criteria, they can if they don't, they won't. Once again, I would like to point out that burning animal fats, in particular, as well as bone-meat flour, is something that has been very clearly proven to present as environmentally less dangerous than burning the most common energy, this is mazuta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Franco Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u178	Honourable President, Members of Parliament, Members of the Government. My question will concern the use of alternative energy sources, more specifically the use of wood mass, biomass, for heat supply. I was encouraged by the statement I heard in this house at the time of the consideration of a report on the work of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund, and there it was heard that about 30% of the annual increase remained in the forest. Nor does it have to be, I don't know, overly clever that after the first walk in our forests we wouldn't find that we're losing a huge amount of natural wealth in the forest. The damage is done, I do not think that this makes full use of the potential that Slovenia has for its growth with the forest and that we are still very far from comparable European countries. The very fact that it currently works in Austria, I think that from 360 to 400 more biomass use systems, it tells us what the situation is like for us; it is to encourage investment in this area. I think it is also one of the possible elements of coherent regional development. This has been shown at least in neighbouring countries, in the case of Austria, to offer employment opportunities through the construction of these systems and thus to indirectly preserve rural settlements. We are in Slovenia at the beginning, I know the government program, but I think that this momentum is somehow too shy, too modest. I therefore ask the representatives of the government when you estimate that they would also be comparable in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you very much. A representative of the government? Mr. Digger, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u180	Dear Member Sušnik! I won't be able to answer you exactly because I wasn't prepared to answer that question. However, I can say that the Ministry of Environment and Space in this year's government work programme is preparing - and this has also been transmitted to Parliament - an activity programme for the use of biomass. I can say that we are in intensive talks with an institution operating within the United Nations called the GEP, this is the Global Environment Programme, to obtain 4.3 million US dollars in donations, provided that we combine them with our resources, with the funds of municipalities and private investors, for the construction of boilers or suitable biomass facilities. This donation is given or should be given if it is obtained, because you yourself know that the initial investment is actually non-profitable and the difference between the investment - such as the gas installation - needs to be bridged by the installation used by biomass. This donation, if we can get it and of course there will be a speech about it, should be given on condition that it is a "revolving" loan; in short, not as a donation that you give to someone, but as something that you lend to someone in the long term and under favourable credit conditions and, of course, must also repay. The Ministry of Special Resources does not, however, have the specific resources for this in the draft budget this year, but this is the targeted business policy of the eco-development fund, which, as you know, is looking for investors and the ecological development fund was in some way the botar of building such capacities in Gornji Grad municipality and elsewhere. At this moment, I know that it is still ongoing, although at local level there were considerable conflicts, thinking about such an investment in the municipality of Predvor and I think there are several other places in Slovenia. The activity of the Ministry of the Environment and the space in this direction are certainly targeted. We are also bound by the Kyoto Agreement, which obliges us to reduce the amount of exhaust gas into the atmosphere and therefore we need to replace existing energy products with new ones. We are bound by commitments to increase the volume of renewable energy sources and, after all, our desire to preserve the cultural landscape, i.e. to fight against the growth of the Slovenian countryside, also directs us to do so. It is precisely in this type of exploitation of biomass that we see the possibility that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, we can also prevent mass cultivation of certain areas. Well, anyway, your question was when we would be comparable to Europe. Europe, as far as this is concerned, does not have any equivalent or equivalent qualitative progress. I think it is far ahead of all Austria, and I am sure that with Austria as far as this is concerned, unfortunately we will not be comparable for a long time, but we will try to be comparable to someone else who is still lagging behind Austria.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u181	It's Mrs. Maja Zupan's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I have decided to ask my question to the Minister of Health or to the representative of this Ministry. In recent days, I have met several random patients who are or are still being treated at the oncology department of the clinical centre in Ljubljana. Everyone complained about how inappropriate the spatial situation in this department is. The situation is very difficult, both for patients and for employees, who are trying to ease it in some way. However, there was great hope that the construction of an oncology institute would be on the priority list this year, but it remains afraid that construction would be delayed. Every day, new patients are coming in need of appropriate therapy and radio therapy in the technique is a big problem, as the devices in this department are already old. As we heard on TV days ago, this equipment is outdated and in this area we are lagging behind some countries, including Poland, for more than 10 years. Some patients will even need to be referred to treatment abroad. The government has adopted a draft budget for this year and, as we are informed, has dedicated only 300 million dollars to the oncology department, while it costs 700 million. I'm asking the next question. When do you expect the construction of an oncology institute to be completed and will we really allow our patients who are being treated for this serious disease to be sent abroad because we do not have the necessary radiation equipment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Representative of the government, Mr. Vohrunec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you for asking me that question. Thank you, Madam President, for your word. As you have found, honourable Member, we also find that the situation at the Oncology Institute is very poor. At the same time, I must inform you, the well-respected assembly, that if you would like to fully restore the Slovenian health system or invest in the Slovenian health system in such a way as to make it a pleasure to say so, you would need this moment or in the next three years - as the health investment law foresees - you would need 60 billion tolars. Of course, this money is not available. This money is not available in Slovenia. Because we have not reached this social consensus in Slovenia to agree on what they are and what are the investment priorities. This year we have a certain amount of money available for investment and, of course, we have dedicated or given a priority to the oncology institute in Ljubljana to build an oncology institute. However, I can tell you already in this place that unfortunately, unfortunately, our great sadness is dragging this construction along and is likely to be further delayed. With regard to the issue of investing in the equipment you mentioned. I should seek an additional answer to this question from the Ministry itself or from my co-workers, but I must tell you that the Ministry of Health or the government as the manager, as the owner of the health institutions, is not the one who is the custodian of the investment in current equipment. It only helps health care institutions, or health care institutions, hospitals are financed through a health insurance institution, through annual contracts, and they are also obliged, or their management, to invest liquidly, annually in equipment. Of course, we at the Ministry of Health will ensure that they respect these obligations, which they have as management, as administrators in organisations, I assure you. At the same time, I urge you to accept with understanding the limitations we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? Satisfied. Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Onion Franc. Excuse me, Mr. Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. First question. When will the government or its authorities arrange for the payment of accounts for closed business with the economy and entrepreneurs? The bills have not been paid for months, even after more than half a year, without interest. For example, bills are paid for meals, every two, three months after 10 to 20 percent of the bill. I'm talking about the financial non-discipline created by the government. The government, which should be a model for orderly financial transactions in the country, is doing the same. This question, called for financial discipline or non-discipline and reasonable payment deadlines, has been raised several times, even at the time of Mr Rob's presentation as Minister, but there has never been an answer. The answer to this question awaits many people affected. I respectfully ask, of course, the esteemed government to answer this question. The next question would be the government again. The Maribor Drava Power Plants produce almost a quarter of electricity in Slovenia - after 2.6 tolars per kilowatt-hour, by the termoelectric power plant Trbovlje, for example, after 17 tolar 24. I'm asking, where does the profits from the Maribor power plants go, and how does the Maribor region benefit from these power plants if they get paid electricity for 2.6 tolars? Where does this profit go? I would like to ask the Secretary-General a third question because with a misleading answer to my fellow Member, Mr Jerovšek, he replied that there are no problems in the electricity system and that everything is under the control of the government and that everything is in the best order. I will now prove with a concrete document from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Energy Association, where they have written down, among other things, a letter to Mr Ferry Horvat to the Committee on the Economy: "Dear President, Mr Horvat. We propose that the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider in particular "- I will only point out something -" necessary to clearly define the ministerial responsibility for the field of energy, now the energy economy does not have a proper interlocutor." Another: "..the need to strengthen the position of an insight into Slovenian energy as a whole and the interest of the growth of the Slovenian economy in order to settle itself." And a whole bunch of other comments. This was submitted by the President of the Energy Association of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Dr. Franc Čeblin and Secretary of the Energy Association of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia Niko Martinec. Are you saying, Sir Secretary-General, that these two gentlemen are lying and that the economy does not know what is going on in this country, and that the Chamber of Economics is also lying? Are you saying that, Mr. Secretary-General? If that's what you're saying, I'd like to ask your explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Of course I'm not saying you're lying. Of course, each can see his or her problems and problems with his or her activities, either personal or official, from a variety of perspectives. However, the undeniable fact is that regulations are in force in Slovenia and it is clear under these rules who is the competent authority in the field of energy. In order for someone to want a different mode of regulation, different human resources solutions, of course, this is possible and this is also happening. After all, we also have many changes in the organisational nature of establishing ministries and then abolishing them again. In short, the idea of how to make something work is big. However, the Slovenian State must operate in accordance with the laws in force. Under these laws, the Ministry of Economy, including in the field of energy, is indisputably competent. I said earlier that the government intends to do this more rationally and better in order to transfer the energy sector to the Ministry of Environment and Space. So what you've read, I don't see what it would be up against what I said before. I would answer the first question, although if necessary, the finance ministry will also have something else to say. The problem of financial discipline is certainly a major problem in this country, and it is not easy to solve it. Even when it comes to payments from state budget funds, there are problems, as there are always these funds coming from public funds from the tax system - they are limited, rational, also planned spending and, of course, implemented rationally. It is therefore difficult to stick to all payment periods, but all ministries are trying to stick to it. Of course, we have an additional problem this year. Indeed, the former government has left this government with 22 billion unpaid accounts. In fact, the funds that remained unfunded and the accounts that remained unpaid are such dimensions that, in some cases, even the funds or those unpaid accounts exceeded the possibility of temporary funding in this year until the adoption of the budget. It must be hard to save 22 billion. Certainly, it has also been difficult to conclude the state budget proposal at all due to such a large shortfall or uncontrolled commitment by the former government and debt at the expense of future governments. Nevertheless, the government is aware of this problem and will try to address these open issues as a matter of priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Complementary question? Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much. If this is all the answers to questions now, I would not agree with them or I would not be happy with them. By the way, all I would say is that the Secretary-General is again deceiving and talking about some debt he has left behind. We will see what the financial report on the 2000 budget will show; then we will see how the budget was planned, how much funds were spent and how many were not used, because there was no money because the budget was overblown, too tense. And who put and accepted the budget, and that's another question, and you didn't say that. Now, of course, all you are saying is that someone has spent money and left a debt that he certainly did not leave justifiable, even with the measures he has taken, this debt is substantially reduced, it would be significantly higher if the draft budget were fully implemented. However, irrespective of the fact that I am not satisfied with the answer, I ask that the National Assembly decide, in accordance with Article 29(1) of the Rules of Procedure, to order the Government to prepare a thorough answer to this question and to propose measures to regulate the situation in this area before the debate in the National Assembly; it is said, in the area of financial discipline. I would also ask that, in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate be held within the time limits of business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you very much. If you allow me, Mr Kelemina, Mrs Kamnar wishes to respond further to the previous question and we will then vote on your proposed decision. Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the issue of unpaid obligations needs to be clarified a little bit more. In addition, the government is coming to the 2001 National Assembly in these days, and I think that on this occasion the issue of 2000 or the outstanding liabilities of 2000 will also be very clear. The fact is, if I only add to the Secretary-General that in 2000 the budget revenue from the value added tax fell to 30 billion dollars. This decline was not due to an error in planning, but due to a completely changed consumption structure in the sense that there was a significant increase in the structure so that exports and not domestic consumption were increased and this is why there was a fall in budgetary resources. This conclusion is not only a finding by this government, but also by some eminent economic experts, so that this conclusion is probably not new to you. The second fact that was present was that last year there was no budget rebalancing which could only lead to budget cuts that were set by the budget. And one and the other has led to the fact that the accounts for 2000 remain unpaid and will probably be paid not earlier than when the 2001 budget is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Article 29, paragraph 1 of Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, states that the Member who has asked the question of a Member - in this case, Mr Kelemina - may propose that the Government's response be discussed in the National Assembly. Without discussion and explanation, the National Assembly shall decide whether and when a debate is held on Mr Kelemina's question of the Member State. The debate may be held first after 48 hours from the adoption of the decision. This is how we go to the first part of the decision on the proposal by Mr Kelemina, whether the assembly is discussing the government's response to his question. If the assembly in this first part decides to hold a debate, we will continue to vote on when, which day, we will hold this debate with government representatives. Dear colleagues, we therefore vote in the first part on whether the government's response is being discussed. We're voting! Of the 50 Members and Members present, 16 to 29 voted in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the assembly of Mr Kelemina's proposal to hold a debate on the parliamentary issue has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u194	It doesn't matter to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you. The next one came from Mr. Onion. Here you go. Mr. Franc Bebulj, it is your turn to ask the question. He's not here. We're moving on. Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. I would like to ask two questions from the area covered by the Ministry of Environment and Space or Mr Kopač. The first question concerns the area of waste, which, according to all studies and assessments, is one of the worst, if not the worst, tasks in the context of environmental protection in Slovenia. For many years, waste was dumped in a number of large landfills, which were generally wild, and there were also thousands of smaller landfills, as well as wild landfills. Although the country has systematically encouraged the integration of municipalities with the aim of settling some of the so-called regional landfills, these projects are very difficult to implement, mainly because of the opposition of many communities and eco-protectors. This is why many local communities have been forced to regulate, legalise and extend existing landfills in order to ensure the safe disposal of waste for the next 10 to 15 years. I would like to know why more projects have not been co-financed, despite the fulfilment of all the tendering conditions in previous years, even though rehabilitations or interventions have been carried out in accordance with all the regulations and although there is no other possibility of waste disposal in these areas, and the state and the municipality will not be able to provide more suitable landfills and incineration plants in the next few years. I would like to know what will be the short- and long-term measures and incentives to address problems in this area. And the second question concerns the area of water. We know, therefore, that water is the most important food and that the provision of healthy, clean drinking water is one of the most important public services; that this area is poor, incomplete or very inconsistent. Many pipelines, especially those built with citizens' own resources, do not usually have the documentation, even less management and responsibility for the supply of quality drinking water. The inspection shall instruct the municipalities, although they are not co-owners, or the administrator to take care of one sampling and payment of the costs of the checks and, in the event of failure, they shall prescribe penalties for non-implementation of those provisions. Despite numerous attempts, it is not possible to transfer ownership to municipalities and management to public companies, nor is it possible to appoint another manager. I ask myself, when are the laws and regulations that will finally effectively address this important area of general safety and health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, Mr. Digač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u198	I will try to answer, even though I did not fully understand this last question when the legal, legal acts would be adopted. I don't know which by-laws have not yet been adopted in this area, so water supply. Maybe he is, but I don't know. I'm not gonna say I'm sure he's gone. But I don't really know about him. Well, as far as water supply is concerned, it is the responsibility of the congregations under our legislation. I believe that many congregations are hard to deal with alone. The state is trying to help. Every year, a few funds are made for this. Last year, a public invitation was made to the municipalities to the water supply projects where it came to the Ministry - I know this because I have already resolved it myself - in December 38 perfect applications. This year, up to 20 percent of 14 selected projects are to be co-financed. However, I know that this is far from enough for this problem to be resolved quickly in many Slovene municipalities. Well, as far as water management is concerned: I don't know the pond problem, but I know the problem of some other municipalities where municipalities really have no influence on the water supply manager. This problem cannot easily be solved by the Ministry of Environment and Space, the question is whether a national assembly can even solve it if it is possible, even if it is agreed by 100 % of all Members, because we have a number of such decisions by the Constitutional Court, which do not in any way allow this problem to be resolved without the absolute consent of all interested municipalities. But there's always one that doesn't give consent. Well, I don't know if I answered exactly what you asked. I have a feeling you're not, and you might want to fill in the question. But as for your question on waste, let me say that the Ministry is of course aware that this is a major problem. In fact, however, the disposal or management of municipal waste is also the responsibility of the congregations and the responsibility of the congregations. The Ministry, for the first time, does not have the resources, secondly, nor does it have the authority to only solve these problems and better not, because it is impossible to deal with 197 problems across Slovenia. Otherwise, the Ministry also allocates certain funds to municipal waste management projects. During last year, several municipalities applied for this well-known invitation from the Ministry, 13 applications were complete and all 13 projects would be co-financed by the Ministry up to 50%. To this end, we have an estimated $260 million or 270 million this year in this year's draft budget, which I hope will be adopted. Well, in the new space regulation law that you will be dealing with this year, the problem of determining locations will be dealt with jointly, and then, of course, I will ask you to help the country, when it comes to state infrastructure, as well as municipalities, when it comes to municipal infrastructure, to give you a number of manoeuvres in making decisions on individual locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Like the last one, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have asked the Minister of Environment and Space a written question, which I repeat orally, and I also want a written answer to it, as well as an oral one, if possible. It refers to the construction or continuation of high-water embankments on Sava and Sotla in the Brežice municipality, in particular in Dobovska Polje. For if the pace of construction is as before, we will not have this area protected for at least 30 years. This is too long if we know that floods cause much damage, both on agricultural areas and on our citizens' premises and dwellings. The fact is that part of the embankment in the Dobovskje field has already been built and the embankment is not complete, as it is supposed to connect with the already built high-water dam on the Croatian side of Sotla. I believe that the country's approach to the construction of the embankments is not correct, as the country deals with construction in a very partial and not comprehensive manner only solves the most pressing problems. I believe that it is becoming with the already built embankments on Sava and Savinja in the upper stream our congregation, or Dobovsko Polje, is a great unloader, since the water has not only flood but also ripening power. I believe that the missing embankment along Sava and Sotla in the Dobovsko Field and on the opposite coast should be built at the same time and as soon as possible. Failure to resolve cases relating to the construction of embankments in the local community of Dobova also prevents the construction of their local cleaning facilities and the sewerage of the network in the area, as these two problems are highly interlinked. I therefore ask the Minister of Environment and Space whether the Republic of Slovenia has a plan for the construction of high-water embankments on critical rivers, in particular on the Sava River; whether the programme is time-definitioned. I would also like to know, in particular, what the local local communities of Dobova in the Brežica municipality want to know, when they can expect the completion of the high-water embankment in their local communities, which will, of course, somewhat prevent these negative consequences of the annual flood. I also expect a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u202	If I understand correctly, do you request a written answer? Did I get it right? Yeah, I promise.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the representatives of the government very much for the answers provided. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, this has been announced in defence of the deviation of individual functionaries of the National Assembly. On 1 February 2001, they submitted a written statement of resignation: Dr. Michael Brejc, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Mr. Jožef Jerovšek, President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services; Mr. Rudolf Petan, President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Defence; Mr. Franz Puksič, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and Mr. Pavel Rupar, Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Internal Policy. On the basis of Article 248(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members who have resigned shall be entitled to explain their resignation. Is that what any of the former names want? [[You don't want to.]] On the basis of the second and third paragraphs of Article 248 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the following conclusions: Under one. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Dr. Michael Brejc made a statement on 1 February 2001 on his resignation from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why he is hereby terminated. Under two. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia finds that it is a mag. Janez Drobnič made a statement on 1 February 2001 on his resignation from the presidency of the Committee of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions, which is why he is hereby terminated. Number three. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Jožef Jerovšek made a statement on 1 February 2001 on the resignation of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the work of the security and intelligence services, which is why he is hereby terminated. Under four. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Rudolf Petan made a statement of resignation on 1 February 2001 as Chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence, which is why he is hereby terminated. Under five. The national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Franz Pukšič made a statement on 1 February 2001 on his resignation from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for elections, appointments and administrative matters, which is why, as of today, his office has ceased. Under six. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Pavel Rupar made a statement on 1 February 2001 on his resignation from the post of Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, which is why he is hereby terminated. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their work so far and thus conclude this agenda item with this also adjourning the meeting of the assembly. The meeting will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda, namely the re-decision on the law on the conversion of free customs shops at road border crossings with the Member States of the European Community operating within the European Union, to the frontier shops and to the specific control measures of these shops. Dear colleagues, thank you very much and good night.
