ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	The meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, which began 15 minutes to 10 a.m., is still under way and will be informed in due time of the start of the session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room. We'll continue the meeting at 10:30. In eight minutes, of course, I invite everyone, including those who did not know this notice before, to come to the hall. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We will proceed with the suspension of the 8th session. It's 10:30. Good morning, good day to everyone again! I ask for peace in the hall. We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded. May I have your attention for a moment to inform you of a meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups? Thank you very much. Before the meeting, we met to examine the situation and conduct of the State Assembly in connection with the suspension of 28. It's a day's work. They were, you know, different attitudes. We have faced two options ahead of the National Assembly. One to decide that, in view of the non-conformity of the draft Rules of Procedure, a business committee shall meet and the other to vote on the whole act in the light of the situation. However, we agreed that it was right to take an hour to consult the Group of Members on this. I suggest that the State Assembly meet at 11.30 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	Members and Members, please, we will continue the meeting. to come to the hall. [[...]] We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please take your seats. We are detecting presence in the hall, please press the "quorum" button. There are 63 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Let me first inform you that some colleagues are detained today: Dr. Brejc, colleague Kacin, Čebulj, Barovic - colleague Barovič is here, Kremjar, Malovr, Fabian, Spindler, Pohorec, Kangler, Bizjak - who is also here, colleague Pukšič is right here and colleague Kontič is among us. Yes, yes, because I find that colleagues are present, although they have probably apologized earlier, we find that. So the National Assembly is concluded and it can decide. The sending groups had an hour of reflection on the possibilities ahead of us. First, colleague Barovic wanted a procedural proposal, probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. With reference to the interpretation of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of Rules of Procedure, 23R198/3, last paragraph on page 161, I call on colleagues and colleagues of this National Assembly to respect the legal order, the Constitution, the legislation, the rules of procedure and everything that binds us, and to decide today, after all legal and logical developments, after all the legal procedures that have been carried out, on this point of procedure. So, rules of procedure: yes or no; who's up for, who's up for, who's up against. We have had a concrete, very concrete proposal that the 28th item should be moved to the next meeting, at which time this national assembly could conclude all the points we have at this meeting usefully and work normally further. I don't think it's fair, not to us, not to the citizens, not to anyone. And we will not bear the readings given to us by the Secretary-General of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia if we do not know how to negotiate. We have made a corrective and concrete proposal which has not been adopted. If it has not been adopted, we therefore adhere to all legal, constitutional and legal provisions. And my proposal, once again or procedurally, is a procedural proposal: we have completed all the stages, let us decide on the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. So you suggest that the National Assembly decide that this item will be concluded at this meeting. I put such a proposal to the vote. 79 colleagues and colleagues attended, 31 46 against them. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] My friend Anderlich has a procedural proposal. I'm just asking for a little patience in the hall. Please have some patience in the hall! My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	Given the long-standing negotiation and search for the possibility that the National Assembly would have a Rules of Procedure that would correspond to the vast majority of Members and Members' groups, and given that many of the solutions in this Rules of Procedure are acceptable to a large majority and that 18 concrete cases of amendments, including the opposition incorporated in these texts, were by the proponents, we believe that, given the practice so far and given the two indisputable cases in the National Assembly in previous mandates, one in the 1992-1996 mandate and one in the 1996-2000 mandate, it could be right - this is one of the solutions. Of course there's another one. I am inclined, therefore, to draw up a proposal for harmonisation amendments, which would be acceptable to the majority, after the harmonisation amendments have not been voted on. Such practice has been in the National Assembly, and such options have been indicated by legal experts, and I propose such a procedural proposal to the National Assembly. So that the mother labour body prepares a new proposal for amendments and that we proceed with the point at one of the future meetings - depending on what the dynamics of adopting the state budget and, of course, other things will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 64(5) of the Rules of Procedure, representatives of the groups of Members may present their views on this proposal. So I'm asking, does anyone want a word? Comrade Visjak
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Socialist Party Group, I must say that I find it extremely unacceptable to propose such a proposal here, but it is even more unacceptable to support it, because it is a mockery of our rules of procedure and also of democracy. In this National Assembly we have a clearly defined procedure for the adoption of legislation as well as the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Three readings are envisaged, and harmonisation is also envisaged at the end, as long as, after the third reading, the acceptance technique of the amendments results in non-compliance. We've exhausted all these options. Under all these options, there was no agreement on the essential point of this Rules of Procedure, which is the way in which the College of Presidents of the National Assembly was decided. We believe that the misuse of this Rules of Procedure would be, if we were to look for this fifth reading, if we were to look again for a possibility of coordination, even though the procedure is clearly recorded. It's a play and we can't agree with that. Therefore, despite the good will, in a manner and in a willingness to participate in future coordination, in the search for solutions, this would, in our view, be very unfair and unacceptable by the rules of procedure adopted. And for formal reasons, we cannot and cannot land on such a proposal. I am surprised that the drafters of the Rules of Procedure have persisted and embarked on a solution that has not been fully supported, and now they are trying, when it is over, to find a new option and a new way to resolve the matter. The case is insolvent under the rules of procedure in force. Mr Anderlich, as the proposer of this procedural decision, mentioned that there were already two such practices. Even if there were five unacceptable practices, this does not excuse us to repeat this indefinitely. The clerk is clear. I'll read the clause. The Rules of Procedure are clear and say that even if the harmonisation amendments are not adopted, a vote must be taken. We now: that we do not have to vote and that we go to the new harmonisation amendments. This is business, in our view, unacceptable. And despite our best will to find solutions - and we will always want to look for them, because we also agree that it is necessary to establish the rules of procedure by effectively and economically organising the work of the National Assembly. And we will always defend it and look for all the solutions. This solution has not been, however, adopted for the most part - I am talking about college - and I think we should give this story a once-in-a-lifetime finish and start again. We think, we even suggest that what we've agreed on and agreed on in many ways, this is true, remains harmonised and we start from this foundation into a new procedure. I think we can get to the new rules of procedure very quickly. But this farce with this rules of procedure, please, let's finish. It is also very unacceptable in the eyes of the public to bring this matter up for three days and I do not know how long it has been and we do not come to an end. Now it is suggested that we postpone and postpone this. This is not right, we do not agree and this is even unrealistic and is not in the name of this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	I always pray for peace in the hall, and now, exceptionally, I demand peace in the hall. Peace in the hall! They will present the parliamentary positions of the parliamentary groups to colleagues Potrč, Kebrič, Pece, Dr. Drobnič and Dr. Bajuk. Dr. Bayuk or Mr. Petty Officer? Dr. Bayuk. Please, buddy Run first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much. With regard to the way in which the decisions taken by the National Assembly are coordinated, we have received an appropriate expert explanation in cooperation with all the leaders of the parliamentary groups. This interpretation means that, by applying Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, coordination may be made if the first harmonisation amendment is not adopted, further correction may be made. This is just an expert explanation and I accept it as a fact, because I am not responsible for the professional interpretation of the Council of State, but I am a political decision-making policy. This is what all of us who participated in there took note of. Individuals can be considered to have the right to have another opinion, but such an expert explanation has been given, and it is right to hear and know that all the leaders of the parliamentary groups have been informed of this professional explanation; among other things, we have had the opportunity to hear it yesterday in the Reflections. Second. So far, I have come to understand that the desire and willingness of the majority to adopt the rules of procedure - not the way it was prepared, but in many solutions - has been expressed. I take it that, in a solution that has been tried several times, there are no two-thirds majority in this National Assembly. And we will also have to take this to heart and be prepared to look for a different solution that will be able to obtain a two-thirds majority. I, not only myself, expressed this awareness and readiness on behalf of the parliamentary group during the interview. As long as there is no solution that has a two-thirds majority guaranteed, it would be pointless to re-examine the decision at this point. There's only one question left. If we sincerely want a new rules of procedure to be put in place as soon as possible, which is a quicker way to do so. Personally, I believe that the quicker way is to try, in the next fourteen days or a month - but knowing that some of the provisions are ready and harmonised - to seek solutions, I stress once again, solutions for which we will have a two-thirds consensus in these fourteen days, rather than to reject today's Rules of Procedure and start a new one. I'm afraid this second path is in any case harder and longer. I don't want to say in advance whether it's sincere or not to come up with common solutions, I don't want to say in advance. You must understand, however, that certain doubts about this also exist, if we are not willing to look for ways that are simpler, this eventual community of solutions, but we want the rules of procedure to fall first, so that we can and should discuss each article later - we can and must. And that each article will have to be adopted or not, but now we have only harmonised, I don't know, 90% of the articles and maybe 10% of them are not aligned; but we know that the problem is mainly at the same point. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we have decided to support such a proposal in order to give another opportunity in the simplified procedure, to bring the rules of procedure to an end and to declare that we will seek such a compromise that would be acceptable for the majority, a two-thirds majority. If this is not ready, then you will tell the business committee that you do not want to participate at this stage and that the decision will have to be made definitively in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues. We had an hour's rest to consider in the parliamentary groups what we should do and follow what we all say, both on behalf of the parliamentary groups and in our own names, in order to obtain such rules that would allow for a more concrete, more effective functioning of this national assembly. This Rules of Procedure have been drawn up for more than five years by experts, and it is now a political decision whether to take one or another. We have found that the four basic questions are inconsequential, or right, in which we differ. Life teaches us compromises and never says it's over. Therefore, we believe that this last formal, legal and legitimate option, which has been pointed out by legal experts and which it has pointed out, as has been said, has been clarified in the past through two cases. If we are truly honest, what we are saying is that we want a new rules of procedure, then it is probably the shortest way to trust the business commission, where all the parties are represented, and since we will probably, so at least in our parliamentary group, we sincerely hope, reconcile those four basic divergent positions. Therefore, our Group will support this proposal and we will vote in favour of making another last attempt. And there is no accident, if we lose a week or two with this, because the next option, if we can't agree, will probably take months and months. And where will we then be with our honesty, which is so generously emphasized here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	He's a friend of mine. I ask everyone else to sit in their seats and not disturb the speakers. Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	It would be nice and proud to be so involved in the matter of marriage in other cases. Therefore, even in those cases for which we are actually Members and Members of the National Assembly, we are placed on this function. Unfortunately, however, this is a diversion that is being carried out by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia at the moment. May I remind you, my fellow Members, that this same decision, as Mr Anderlič has just proposed, has been proposed when the agenda is adopted. But you didn't think it was even worth considering; no, you walked the line. Today, a few hours later, you will come to this same conclusion only because you see that you have failed with your way of terror that individual Members will be severely ill for the next 40 years when they do not get a new job. Yesterday and today, you had too little time for your threats to fail. With the so-called Business Commission and its new role, you are only trying to buy time for the new intimidation of some Members. Mr President, the National Assembly, Borut Pahor, I ask you not to put this decision to the vote. This Decision has already been decided by the National Assembly and you have decided negatively; therefore, that the Rules of Procedure should not be suspended, that the third hearing of this meeting should begin and that it should be terminated. The National Assembly and all Members of this National Assembly have been appointed around the amendments. It was a clear will. Allow a fundamental democratic principle; that is, a vote, a democracy to be defined in this national assembly today and here around the final question, whether the rules of procedure are appropriate for life or not. It was said: For five years, for five years, this and the previous National Assembly dealt with business changes, tried to adjust them, or try to adapt them to the ruling majority. But, gentlemen, you see for yourself; but you are not successful, you need a two-thirds majority. If you can't get it, don't try to get it with threats, with threats from a normal Member. Let's do this vote today. Thank you. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, as long as you put a proposal to the vote, there is simply no other one left because we have the view that you are violating the rules of procedure and all democratic principles, as if we were leaving this national assembly at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will not support this proposal. Today, we hear words about a practice that is supposed to have been established twice in this national assembly. We do not feel committed to the violations that have occurred in the past. However, I would like to remind all those who also have a memory and who were in this Chamber when it happened in the past that the then president of the National Assembly called it a major abuse. Today, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I also declare this: if this proposal is put to the vote, there will be repeated abuse - the abuse of the majority over the law. This house, which has the responsibility to write and enforce laws in our country, must be the first to respect them. It is too late, gentlemen, to refer to the honesty or dishonesty of such and different views today. It is true that another colleague has already reminded us that we had the opportunity to postpone, but most have decided not to postpone. It's very simple here. We don't have the criteria for honesty or dishonesty here, big majority - just enough majority. And respected colleagues and colleagues, this proposal did not receive a sufficient majority. So, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I remind you that it is still valid; what the ancient Romans said: "Dura lex, sed lex". We must respect the rules of procedure, and this is the only question that is before us today and which we must decide on. Such and other expert opinions, which appear on reflections just in time, do not bind New Slovenia. And I hope you don't either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. Comrade Battelli, you are the last one to ask, then colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Probably not, nor does it make political sense to give up what has been achieved. The alignment is possible in two ways. Is possible according to what was adopted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	Please. Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	So it is possible, depending on what has been adopted, or it is possible, depending on what has not been adopted. Somewhere in between is probably the solution and the decision proposed offers to continue working in this direction. In short, it will be possible for me to adopt a rule of procedure which will enjoy the broadest support for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Comrade Companion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The procedure for adopting the Rules of Procedure shall give maximum legitimacy. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be adopted in such a way as to give rise to the slightest suspicion that it would be in any way contrary to the applicable procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I felt some unrest here between my fellow Members of the opposition. I respectfully appeal to you not to leave the National Assembly in this vote. Why am I appealing? We must admit that the representatives of the parties we are in the government and we have been the proponents are also in trouble. I'm the one who's making this public confession here. The way and content of this Rules of Procedure will then be from all of us, not just from the coalition, it will also be from the opposition. Therefore, it would be good for us to try together to make a decision on the way forward. So I hope you'll stay with us. It is my opinion that the business path is completely clear that we have previously rejected - that the national assembly should decide on the rules of procedure after the vote and undeclared harmonisation amendments. The Rules of Procedure, which are now before us, have a large majority of the good European solutions with which we can go to any European country at any time. It is true, however, that there are certain provisions in it that would make the enforcement of this Rules more difficult and difficult to achieve. And we need to figure that out together; that's what happened to us. It should also be noted that the President of the National Assembly has already put the proposed rules to the vote. The Rules of Procedure are already in the vote. Well, that's an extra conundrum. It should be noted that, on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, it was proposed years ago that, given the possibility that the harmonisation amendment would not be adopted, another possibility should then be given to the mother body to make the harmonisation amendment. It was 1995; then more Members spoke, including my trifle, and said that it was an abuse of the rules of procedure. This is also said to have happened in the previous term when I was chairman of the National Assembly. If that was the case, I will carefully examine this - and, of course, probably a mistake was also made at the time. Nevertheless, I propose a path that will be fully business-friendly. Today we have the opportunity to vote not to vote today. Or we'll go to a business committee, and this has to be an open question. The interpretations of the Rules of Procedure were made quickly, not written. We know who can interpret the rules of procedure: between the meeting of the President or the President and outside the meeting of the competent working body. So, we are in trouble, and since we have decided not to decide on the rules of procedure today, in my view, it is still a business clean road for us to decide not to vote today. But how will we resolve the matter, and after careful consideration, we will decide in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are in the middle of a decision on the procedural proposal of colleague Anderlich. Does colleague Anderlič accept this correction given by colleague Podobnik, it is said that the decision would only read, "by virtue of the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, this item of the agenda is postponed to one of the future meetings of the National Assembly," and nothing else? [[No, no, ……]] So you insist on your decision. There's no debate. We have to vote. [[...]] [[Contracts.]] Please! We must vote on the proposal that was made. We'll be adjourned in five minutes. [[Explanation and conversation from the bench.]] If I understand correctly, here my colleague Plevelje reminds me that if we asked for a break, I could give it to him. Yeah, he raised his hand, and I didn't know why he wanted to raise his hand. That's why I'm adjourning the session for five minutes. Please. Please colleagues and colleagues, if they come to the hall, we will continue the meeting. So I propose to my colleagues and colleagues, now it's 12 and 5 minutes to set a half hour break. I would also like to consult members of the opposition groups. We'll continue at 12 o'clock and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Colleagues and colleagues! It's 12:32, we'll resume the session. Comrade Anderlich, before I give Pardon, first presence in the hall. [[...]] Presence! 57 colleagues and colleagues are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may proceed. Comrade Anderlič, you have informed me that you accept the proposal of Comrade Sponik. Are you going to tell me? Then I'll give the procedure first to my colleague Peterlet and then to the mag. Visionary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	No, no. If I may, colleague Anderlich, would you like to explain that? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	As it is always ready to find the best solutions, I do not believe that this is such, but I support Mr Sponik's proposal, which has upgraded this procedural proposal, even though I do not know whether this business can be done in this way. I hope that from this point of view there won't be any more evidence, counting that at this time, when this will be postponed, there will be a time for the business commission anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	I said that because my colleague Peterle, as he informed me, would make a proposal, if I understand correctly, for a break and I think it was right to know. Comrade Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I make my own proposal, I must avoid similar practices in the future but protest that the President, in your or in any other person, knows in advance what someone who raises his hand will say and will deal with him without saying anything. This happened to Mr Jerovsk, the vice president said, "I know what you're going to say!" Listen, no one can say this in this house, and not outside it what the messenger will say. I have previously been deprived of the possibility, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that on behalf of the Group of Members, I should ask for a break from the decision, and only that we should stick to the order of the House and, given what is now - I do not know how Mr Anderlič could get the word back past the procedure - I request a 10-minute recess for consultation before this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	Look. Let me get this straight. It was a procedural proposal which was then completed and it is right to withdraw and consult for 10 minutes on the proposal of the Group's procedural proposal, now also on your proposal. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes, 12.45 and we'll proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Colleagues and colleagues, I find presence in the hall. Please press "quorum" to detect presence. Thank you. 73 colleagues and colleagues are present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded, may decide. My friend Peterle asked for a break. Comrade Peterle, would you like a word? I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Our parliamentary group met in accordance with the requested recess with representatives of SDS, SMS and SNS. Thus, the four parties who have objected to the illegal proceedings so far or to the conclusion of this procedure insist that we stick to the house order, according to our domestic rules. And we are not for what some have put at the forefront as a key criterion: let's move quickly. It's not the first criteria here, it's the legality. That's why we're going to insist on legality. We will also insist that there are no double criteria. Our fellow Member, Mr Barovic, proposed yesterday, if I am not mistaken, the same procedural proposal, as proposed by a member of the second parliamentary group. His proposal was inappropriate, but if he is proposed by the right party, he can obviously be appropriate or we will see if this is put to the vote. So it is not an honor for this national assembly to make decisions in this way. Then, the words were used: let's make one last attempt. In our view, we have made the last attempt to try to harmonise an amendment that has not been, but has also had various other elements that do not follow the words of the Rules of Procedure or the letters of the Rules of Procedure. But it probably doesn't make sense to talk about it anymore, because we're already in the next phase. And we don't see the end because it could happen that this last attempt would fail and we would suggest another attempt. And I think that this house would probably lose some other part of its own, not exactly the best repute. Therefore, we believe that what our representatives have already proposed at various meetings is the best to conclude this procedure legally, we are in the decision-making phase and we are prepared to decide on the last, it is said, of the last vote. We think it's best, or we're gonna get into a lot of trouble. And because we like to refer to practice in a different way, of course, we think that practice should not be the first criteria, but the first criteria of decision-making are the rules of the game, not some usually wrong or abuse with practice, as has been said. And I would like to recall, for example, the law that he then found the way to the referendum. It's a question of fertilization with biomedical aid when you said to your colleagues at the time - those who represented such a law - that there is no law to be fixed in that round when the opposition said, "Maybe you can, look businessly if you can." You said, "You can't." Today, however, we would like to make final and further attempts to exercise your will. We're just finding out that this thing is on the spot. Then there is the following fact that makes this game more funny. Mr Tone Anderlich, our fellow Member and Head of the LDS Group, has already tabled a new bill into the procedure. 5.10. is the date of receipt in DZ, the regular phase, the record descriptor. So I understand there's no text yet, but the address is already there. So, as it's called - and we've been criticised - he's taken over the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! Stop playing games with us because this thing is unserious and unworthy of this House. Classification number 020-02/92-0025/0193. Check it out. Title, act type: Rules of Procedure. So we have enough of these games and we will use all the democratic means allowed in this house not to engage in illegal transactions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Visjak wanted the text earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Decisions on the rules of procedure, and so on, have been drawn up for quite some time. Today is, I'd say, a third day. It's more than a mature decision. We're also in the decision-making phase. Whatever the case, it is now trying to find another path that we are confident will play its part in the rules of procedure and bring some solutions around the corner again. We can't land like this. I can tell you here with all my responsibility to have a personal conversation with the lawyers of this same house before we decided and decided on the harmonisation amendments. In the opinion of these lawyers, whose opinion is always taken into account in each marriage proposal, it was as if the co-conclusion amendments or amendments were not adopted, that a full vote on the proposal should be taken. I think that this desire for some stretching and chewing of this time limit is unacceptable until the decision is reached, and shows the search for some commercially controversial decisions. There is also a new Rules of Procedure on the table, I repeat the words of my colleague, from which it is clear that the applicant has also foreseen that this Rules of Procedure will fall. And it would be the right thing to do. Any other decision will take place without us. That's why I'm going to point out the obstruction here, in so far as this matter goes against what I've been told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. So, we have a proposal for a procedural decision: "On the basis of the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, this item of the agenda shall be transferred to one of the future meetings of the National Assembly." I put this proposal to the vote. We're in the middle of a vote, Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	I merely say that the New Slovenia Group will not participate in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present, 45 of whom have accepted this procedural proposal, and no one has opposed it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] This procedural proposal is in full compliance with the rules of procedure. The National Assembly has made this decision several times. Colleagues have the right to oppose this position; they also have the legitimate right to disagree with such a proposal in the way they used it; this is commercially possible and correct and must be respected. This concludes this agenda item for today, and we are moving on to the next. We will continue in five minutes because it takes some time to move on to agenda 36, which is elections and appointments. Please, Comrade Juban, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. We've already started the bookstore bill several times, and it would be good to bring it to an end once. I think we're in the delicate article that needs to be voted on, and then it can probably concern, in my opinion, what is normally leaking. And perhaps we could bring this point to an end today, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	If I may make an explanation, Comrade Juban. Elections and appointments won't take us long, unless, of course, you insist on your procedural proposal, and then we move on to librarianism. Do you insist on the proposal, Comrade Juban? Otherwise, we'd be doing an election and appointment point. Comrade Juban, do you insist? You insist. Then I am putting this proposal to the vote to continue with the point on librarianism. That proposal shall be put to the vote. There's 46 present, 21, 16 against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 16.]] We'll continue with the library law. We'll wait for the government to join us, so I'm taking five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	I propose that they come to the Chamber, of course also to Members and Members. Before we begin, let me just say that my colleague Sok and Moga will perform, so I invite my colleague Sok in particular to join us, because he has a word now. Comrade Sok, if my vote reaches you, I invite you to come to the hall. My friend Sok is here. You're giving up the debate? My colleague Mogo. Before we start, because I can see we're not done yet. I understand. Just to sort things out before we go any further, I don't think we're done. We're picking up the presence! Quorum. There are enough of us, 56 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and can continue its work. We remained in the decision-making process on the amendments to Article 25 of the Law. He wanted to speak to a colleague, Sok, who is giving up the debate and his colleague Moze wants to discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much, President. In the second reading and third reading, the Committee addressed the problems of the provincial library and also of the Hungarian minorities. In the second reading, the Committee supported such an amendment, although it was more resilient than it is now. The amendment that we are dealing with now only says that the Minister responsible for culture can do this to define individual tasks in a different area. The Committee has supported this, the government does not oppose it, but it is up to us, of course, who always behaves as to how Slovenia can care for minorities, how much tolerance we have for the problems of people or of the Hungarian minority living in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, colleague Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. In the absence of big words, I would only say that the 25th article speaks of general libraries in national mixed areas, that the 26th article speaks of general libraries in border areas. The Lendava Library belongs to these two articles and Lendava has a library. Article 27 speaks of the central regional libraries as the catchments of the provincial or regional libraries in Slovenia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Yes, colleague Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you. The article really does speak of general libraries. Lendava is a general library in a national mixed area and as a general library, we expect the Minister to give these powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much. My friend Skull wants a word. Please. Colleague Pozsonec, you can switch off to thank you very much. [[...]] A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I am not the one who can, on a case-by-case basis, judge whether a second amendment to Article 25 can be voted on or not, but the content governed by this amendment is not necessarily referred to in Article 25, but it is referred to in Article 27. The debate on Article 27 took place as Mrs Pozsonchev and Mr Moge rightly said. And the National Assembly did not back this solution at the time, because then Article 27 was not opened in the manner proposed by Mrs Maria Possonec and also by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport; an amendment appeared in the wrong place. And it's true because of the system and we've been talking about it for three days now, about the system, to insist that all the rights enjoyed by national minorities are regulated, so to speak, by Article 25. And this article has been prepared in the same way as my fellow nationalists have proposed. And it writes now that these libraries provide members of these communities with communication in their language. They shall also provide for the library activity intended for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma communities and shall prepare, as a general library referred to in the preceding paragraph, a programme of activities, as referred to in the preceding paragraph, in agreement with the representatives of the national communities. So it is placed in the system of general libraries of a kind of consensus as to how the programme to ensure the interest of the national community must be carried out. The 27th Article discusses the central regional libraries and discusses these specific tasks. Not even talking about hungarianism and I don't know what has been said here, but about specific tasks: to provide an increased and more difficult selection of library materials, to offer professional assistance to all libraries from their territory - is said, in this case also Lendava, Omar and I think it is another, luzomeric, I think it belongs to this circle - to coordinate the collection, processing and feeding of indigenous materials for its territory and to direct the isolated library material of its area. Even in the indent, this is not about regulating the rights of national minorities. And from this point of view, it seems to me that the second amendment to Article 25 should be rejected, as it provides sufficient and sufficient instruments to ensure the rights of consumers in the Hungarian language and gives an instrument of consent to the national community to form this programme, both for Goričko, where the library in Murski Sobota plays this role, as for Lendava, where the library in Lendava performs this task. However, the central district library is responsible for this area, as has already been said, for the conditions that it is already fulfilling or will be fully fulfilled by the new building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. Colleague Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	Mr. Školč, allow the national community to decide for itself if it is sufficient or not sufficient. This means that you will not find out from here. [[...]] I don't know if the Constitution allows the national community to set up independent institutions for the purposes of its development, then we cannot allow so much autonomy to be regulated by library life in bilingual areas, not by a 30 km remote establishment that is not bilingual. [[...]] Geography.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much, President. With this education, what belongs to which article, I would simply like to reiterate that everyone sitting here no doubt knows that Article 25 speaks of general libraries and that Article 27 speaks of the central regional libraries, as this is written in many of these articles. The amendment that was tabled speaks of the first and second libraries. Since there is no article in this law, which would speak of the first and second libraries, such an amendment may be, at least in my humble opinion, yes either to an article that speaks of general libraries or to an article that speaks of central regional libraries. But I don't think that procedural complications, that we shouldn't vote on this amendment, are there?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you very much. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. As you will recall, I did not insist that my understanding of the construction of the law is exclusive and that this does not belong to Article 25. I only warned that it was an attempt to resolve this in the previous phase of Article 27 and that the National Assembly had also rejected this attempt after a very heated debate. But I raised my hand mainly to answer Mrs Possonce, who here is saying something that is not entirely true. Article 25 is written in such a way as to ensure the necessary subjectivity of the national community and is absolutely not taken into account by law. As it is written, it ensures its full subjectivity. And, of course, it ensures, in the case of the Hungarian National Community, that this is regulated in two libraries in the same way, or it can, if this community decides to settle it in Lendava in one way, that it will be so arranged there, and if it wants to settle it in a different way in the House Library, it will probably be possible; but I am not going to. The subjectivity of the Hungarian national community is fully and in the text proposed by the Communities or Members, provided for in Article 25.27. The article refers to regional libraries throughout Slovenia and not to the library in Murska Sobota.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	Okay. I see there are no more applications, so you might want to go over another word, colleague possonec? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	That's all I'd say. Nationality has as many rights as the majority people allow. We can make a banner, hang it in our library, be independent, subjective, and be responsible for our development. That's how you get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to come by, but I'd kind of like to take a colleague of the School for protection, and consider it a replica. In one of the hearings, I have made quite a point, and I will no longer be, and for my sake, let this vote run out. I would like to say the following, however, that I myself firmly believe that the majority of the people allow the Hungarian people to exercise their rights in the field of culture as well. I agree that there can be no other entity and engine of this, like this community itself. I have also always supported this, you can look, at the working bodies or here, all the votes except for this case, because I have always supported all the demands and will, of course, continue to do so. In these eight years, since I have been on the Nationality Commission, I have never - and I have visited these places many times myself - have I never observed a word that any representative or lady, an esteemed fellow Member, would mention that they are in any way disadvantaged in the subjective conduct of their policy in the field of librarianism - never. A lot of libraries are also very well arranged, I think, I visited, say, two, three. That's not what this is about, Mrs. Marika. I find it offensive to say, "Then write a banner, and you solved it all." No, Slovenia regulates this differently and regulates it delicately. But if it rules too little, you have the right, and I will always support you. Now it's something else. Now it's about you transferring some powers from the county library to yours. You're fighting as something - just in case you have to fight a little bit for us. I don't see what you're going to get with this. You always say, "let's keep everything as it is, it's none of my business, we don't want any paper." So what exactly do you want? I don't understand the contents of what you're getting out of this. It seems to me that we might actually try [[...]] Look. I read in the newspaper the controversy of the employee of this library in Murski Sobota, who opposes it. You're saying no one in Goričko is opposed. I assure you that these voices have come to me, that some there are wrong and that the Lendu Hungarians are in some "vis-a-vis" advantage of others. I'm sure it's not what you're trying to tell us. It seems to me that you're trying to turn a library a little bit, and you're going to transfer the matter to Hungary. The content, the cultural, the existence of this precious national community has not now been threatened by this and it will not continue to be, is my firm conviction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	Colleague Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	I don't think there's any point in explaining it anymore. I said very nicely that I want to go to the bookstore in the morning because we live there, we live there, I take the baby to a fairy tale class, I go to a literary evening. But let them choose all of this in Lendava, which content is yes and which is not. But the District Library runs its general libraries and I don't know 28 villages, about eight thousand, I say that 10,000 Hungarians deserve to be independent in library life. [[...]] If that's so hard to understand, I can't explain it to you. The absolute room library will be a study library, it will be a provincial library, and as such it will have its hungariki. But we want autonomy in an area that is bilingual in the area of bilinguality.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. If you turn it off, please. First my friend Jakič, then my colleague Moze.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. You know, and colleague Possoncheva knows that I am very gentle about national minorities and, of course, the rights of this. But this final discussion, Mrs. Possoncheva, somehow forced me to go back to the very precise brother-in-law before us. What you said doesn't really hold. For according to Article 25 of the Law, which speaks of general libraries in national mixed areas, you will be able to get all that you said from the morning of getting up, the books and children, of course, in the library of Lendava, and if I understand it, it is now. That's why I, like my colleague Partljič, don't really understand this "big fight," I'd say in a jargon. If we have also introduced amendments to paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 in the previous phases of Article 25, the rights of minorities are, of course, guaranteed under this law. Here is just the question of whether we want to have two central libraries at that end. This is another issue that does not concern the rights of minorities, so of course I must say that, despite the long reflection and persuasion, I will not support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. Then my friend Partlych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	I would say to my colleague Partlich that he did not express himself precisely, which is not the case with the writer of his metal. Now I don't know if he's wrong or not. I have said very well that this amendment speaks only of the fact that the minister can transfer, without being able to bear what the colleague Partljič said and that, ah says colleague Jakič, who obviously has the potential to have two central libraries. This amendment does not talk about it, but only leaves one door open to a minority so that the minister responsible for culture can determine that individual tasks can be delegated. So this amendment is not written in such a way that once this amendment is confirmed and the law is passed on. But it's up to us how we vote. I said it's a matter of being extremely sensitive to minorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much. My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	This is definitely the last time I've heard from him. I've heard very well that the Minister may or may not pass this on to himself. I also heard a colleague named Marika say she expects her to be. I think you heard that. Otherwise, I haven't talked about it, but I've replicated to Mrs. Marika that the School somehow takes her subjectivity with its discussion. Mrs Possonceva, if it is true that because the district library in Murska Sobota is as much as it is, it is difficult for you to say what you said earlier, if they prescribe fairytale hours, which books you can borrow and on which literary evening you are going, if that is true, I will now support your thing. Because I'm sure it has nothing to do with you and you can do it very well. Now, I admit that I'm going to say one very roughly, and I'm sorry, which is why you're going to see how I really don't understand things. Once we have, like an initiative, a new university center in Ptuj, which will build its library, or you will give an article, let the part of the thing that deals with Slovenian Mountains and Ptuj be transferred from Maribor to Ptuj or how. That's it. I won't be answering again. I hope this is all guaranteed to you. If it's not, I'll be the first fighter to guarantee it. I think that through this discussion a literary evening, borrowing books and so on, this has been well arranged and will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	My colleague Jakich, then my colleague Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	For the last time, I too have a replica or an explanation for my colleague Mohet. In fact, I went to a brother and if I read the law if I skip Article 2 of this Act dealing with activity, and I read carefully Article 16 which speaks about general libraries or what they do: they participate in lifelong education, collect, process, protect and transmit household materials, ensure the accessibility and usefulness of public authorities generally available on electronic media, organise specific forms of activities for children, young people, adults who are intended to promote reading culture, organise special forms of activity for children and young people and adults with special needs, organise cultural events related to their activities. If I link this to a special article dealing with general libraries in national mixed areas where it says that general libraries in national mixed areas also provide library activities for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma communities, these libraries shall provide members of these communities with communication in their language. And if I also read the last paragraph, which says, "The General Libraries of the preceding paragraph" - it is said, just read, which speaks of special rights or special duties of the general library - "are preparing the programme of activities referred to in the preceding paragraph in agreement with representatives of the national communities." With this in mind, as I have said before, as mildly sensitive to the rights of national minorities and human rights in general, I believe that, of course, what I am committed to in my life is an issue of some other prestige regarding central libraries. That is why I will not support this amendment, and I will no longer replicate it, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Colleague Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Everything you've read, we know how to organize, we don't need to say what to mentors from Murska Sobota. We organize for ourselves, for us, for us. So we don't need someone, say, a hungarian, the state pays in Murska Sobota then, not in bilingual territory. That's one. Just one sentence, all that's true, what you said, it's in bilingual territory. But Murska Sobota, let me say, unfortunately, it's not a bilingual area. I'd like to be in bilingual territory, too, Murska Sobota. I think you can turn my words one way or another. What I said was, what do you want? It's to be organized by us, by nationality, not by 30 kilometers away from us. To this end, they can organize these things for us, such as in Ptuj. Because it's not a bilingual area of Murska Sobota. If you vote by law, by the letter of the law, then that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to Article 25. First, the National Assembly will decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 57 colleagues and colleagues present. 53 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment under order number 1 was given the required majority. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 19 for, 32 for. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 32.]] This amendment didn't get the required majority. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 26. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We'll decide about him. We're voting. The National Assembly is not concluded at this time. We'll re-examine the presence. Please, let's find out what's going on here. That's enough of us. 53 We Are in the Hall [[Concentration decreased for a moment]] . The amendment to Article 26 has been adopted. By the 31st Article, the New Slovenia Group tabled a proposal for an amendment which I cannot put to the vote because it was tabled too late. We therefore need to move to a vote and a decision on the amendment to Article 34. I'm opening a debate. My colleague Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	I would warn you that we have not yet voted on Article 26.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	The amendments shall be voted on, not entirely, on the articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	We did not vote on the amendment to Article 26 because we were on the verge of a conclusion - 45 present.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	You're right, yes. Thank you very much, colleague Majnik, for your warning. We must decide on the amendment to Article 26. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 26. 52 colleagues and colleagues were present, 49 were in favour, one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the supplement has been accepted. Thank you again very much for this warning. Now we are under order number 1 to Article 34 on the amendment. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on this amendment. There's 50, 47 for, no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 36. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on him. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 36. There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 37. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and put the amendment under order number one to Article 37 to the vote. 52 of us are present, 6 for, 43 for. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 38. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and vote on the amendment under order number one to Article 38. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 42 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment to Article 38 has been adopted. We also have one amendment to Article 39. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I shall put the amendment under order number one to Article 39 to the vote. There are 51 Members and Members present, 48 of whom were in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 39 has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 43. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number one to Article 43. We're voting. 46 colleagues and colleagues were present, 41 were in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 50 in attendance, 48 in, no in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 46. Anybody want a word? If an amendment under order number one is adopted, the amendment under order number two shall be immaterial. There is no debate, so we can go to the vote. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number one to Article 46. 52 present, 12 in, 34 in. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 34.]] The first amendment has not been adopted, so we can move on to a decision on the amendment under Article 2 to Article 46. I'm putting it to a vote. There are 49 colleagues and colleagues present, 40 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment got the required majority. We're at Article 49 and an amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 49. Let's vote! 52 present. 49 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Three amendments are tabled under Article 53. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Please, you have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Article 53 provides for the participation of municipalities in the financing of general libraries. I would like to briefly explain my opposition to the third amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this article, which expressly breaks the disagreement or places the co-founding municipalities, which are obliged to provide funds for the operation of libraries, in an extremely uneven position. I'll try to explain that. In the second paragraph of Article 53, the second reading clearly states that the library activity may be carried out for the municipality or for several municipalities by agreement, but that the municipalities are obliged to provide excessively the costs for the operation of these libraries, while at the same time covering the costs for the operation of library units in the territory of the municipality where the unit operates. What I have said is a double burden for the municipalities where the library units are established. The implementation of this provision laid down that municipalities would provide funds for material costs and the purchase of materials in accordance with the financial plan adopted by the library, I think it would be controversial in this sense because it will be difficult to agree and there will always be reasons to challenge the financial plan. I therefore support the reference to the existing Article 3 adopted in the second reading, which states that the total costs referred to in the first paragraph of this Article include mainly the material costs and labour costs associated with the selection, procurement and processing of library material, using the reference collection and the library bus and the operation of the common services. Here are cases where libraries are 20 and more km away from future general libraries and such a way of financing, which would depend on the financial plan adopted, in the fact that we know what the composition of the world of such a institution or library is, they expose these municipalities, where library units will operate, to an extremely underprivileged position. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that the 20th section of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which has already not been taken into account in the entire system of financing of libraries, to municipalities where administrative units have been established until the implementation of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities, allocates 4% more of the eligible expenditure and, in particular, to the financing of these common issues in the field of culture, libraries and the like, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. In any event, the municipality where the administrative unit was established prior to the establishment of the municipal law should, by this logic, contribute more to the library activity or to the financing of the general library established in that municipality. I have already pointed to this in the general debate, including in the second reading. This law ignores this disagreement, contrary to the opinion we have obtained from the Ministry of Finance. The enforcement of not defining what the municipality, which has a library unit, is obliged to pay for the operation of this library, and it is not defined in the law, but I think it is still potentialating this irregularity, which is already embedded in this law, and in my opinion it is an additional problem in the financing of libraries. There's no way we're going to be able to make a deal, it's going to be the core of a permanent conflict. It is also true that, in Article 54, I will say, the stick that is to be disciplined in these matters, or also in the last paragraph, which speaks of doubt as to whether the part of the congregation is right or wrong for the minister to decide. However, I think that the existing third paragraph, which the Government intends to amend with the third amendment, is entirely appropriate. I think that's a solid enough basis for this marriage to come to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 53. May I have your attention, please? First, I shall put to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 53. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present; 36 are in favour, 10 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. It takes a little focus. I will put it to the vote again so that we do not do the same as before when colleague Majnikov then gratefully warned us. I will now put to the vote again. May I have your attention so there will be no misunderstandings? I will put to the vote the amendment under order number 2 to Article 53. We're voting. My friend Jakich, can you sit down, please? Thank you. 51 present. 41 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 52 present. 40 for, 11 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. I am opening the debate on the four amendments tabled to Article 55. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 55. I think this is really a matter of concentration, no other problem. So I'll wait a few seconds. Again, colleagues and colleagues, secondly, I am putting to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 55. We're voting. 48 present. 6 for, 39 for. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 39.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 47 present. 40 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment received the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 52 present. 8 for, 43 for. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 43.]] He didn't get the support he needed. The fourth amendment is now in the vote. We decide on him. Please. Excuse me. I'm calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	I would suggest that in harmonisation, the text should be corrected because it should read "first paragraph" instead of "previous". This should be taken into account in the wording of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	The secretariat will take this into account in the newsroom. Is there another obstacle to voting? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the amendment under order number four to Article 55, with a warning given in relation to the editorial. We're voting. 47 in attendance, 42 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment received the necessary support. We decide on the proposal for a new Article 55a. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the proposal for a new Article 55a. 48 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The proposal was adopted. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 57. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We'll decide that. Let us vote on the amendment under order number one to Article 57. We'll just be a minute. [[...]] I will now put the second time to the vote of the amendment under order number one to Article 57. We're voting. There were 50 Members and Members present, 45 of them, no one opposed. [[It's a vote.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We have one amendment to Article 58. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the amendment under order number one to Article 58. There's 49 present for 48 against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] He's got the support he needs. We have also tabled a single amendment to Article 59. Anybody want a word about him? It's immaterial, yes. I'm sorry. This way we can continue to decide on the amendment to Article 60. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on the amendment under order number one to article 60. We're voting. 51 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. We have an amendment to Article 62. Anybody want a word? The amendment is irrelevant. It is also an irrelevant amendment to Article 63. At chapter 9, I have a warning that the article should be corrected editorially. Anyone want to discuss the amendment to chapter 9? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's vote! 51 present. 46 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have two amendments under Article 66. If the amendment is adopted under order number 1, the amendment under order number 2 shall be immaterial. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! 55 present. 36 to 17. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. Thus, the amendment under order number 2 became irrelevant. We continue to make decisions. We're at the amendment to Article 68. Anybody want a word? I'm guessing no one, so we're moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! 53 present. 49 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. Finally, two amendments have been tabled by Article 71, noting that there is no need for an amendment under the number 1 amendment under number 2. Anybody want a debate? Please wait in the hall. [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Let's vote! [[47 present.]] 40 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus, the amendment under order number 2 became irrelevant. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual compatibility of the law has been violated? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the amendments adopted at this stage [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	Just a moment to stop you. I'm asking for peace. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	and even in the second reading, when inspection was introduced in addition to professional supervision, it was not possible in the third reading to clear the content or content of the solutions relating to professional supervision. [[...]] Thus, we have a substantive discrepancy: the amended Articles 57 and 60 refer to inspection supervision and Articles 59 and 61 to 64 to deal with professional supervision. Thus, there has been a substantive discrepancy that will have to be addressed through the harmonisation amendments. This is one finding with regard to one set of non-conformities. The second set, however, concerns Articles 45, 46 and 66. These articles relate to the establishment of a library information service. In fact, Article 45 is designed to leave the possibility that this organisation, which performs the tasks of the library-information service, may be established by the State or by another founder. In addition, Article 46 suggests the possibility of this organisation forming as a status form as a public institution, but also in another form. While Article 66, which is amended and takes account of the situation in question, again points to only one possibility, namely that it is the founder of the State whose founding rights are exercised by the Government. It is therefore noted that certain corrections and substantive harmonisation should also be made in these articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-05-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Since the law is therefore inconsistent with each other, I interrupt this item on the agenda for the preparation of the harmonisation amendments. It's 2:00. I'm asking, is there anyone who would object to us holding a brief vote and appointment before the end of the 8th session? Does anyone object? It won't be a long point. Can I? Yes, you can. No one's objecting. Okay. We are moving to the last item that we will be able to address at the 8th meeting, namely LOVES AND NAMES. You have received a proposal from the Judicial Council and the Electoral Commission. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals of the Judicial Council for election to the judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted eight motions for election to the judicial office of the five District Judges and one District Judge at the District Court in Ljubljana, Slovenian Konjice, Ormož and Murski Sobota, and two Judges for Offences in Judge Murska Sobota and Ljubljana. Does the President of the Council of Justice want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the committee responsible. Does the President of the Council of Justice want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the committee responsible. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Members and Members of Parliament. [[Not at all.]] As this debate is concluded, we are moving on to a vote. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Tadeje Borinc Zebič to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. We are voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Tadeje Borinc Zebic. 54 present. 50 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The proposed decision shall be adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Maja Kolčar to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. We are voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Maja Kolnik. 52 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Bojana Leskovar to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in the Slovenian Konjice. We're voting. 51 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The decree has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Marjan Premzl as a judge of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ormož. We're voting. We are voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Marjan Premzl. 53 present. 47 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] The decree has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Andreja Pintarič to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Murska Sobota. We're voting. 54 present. 49 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The decree has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Teresa Cipot to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Murska Sobota. We're voting. We are voting on the motion for a decision to elect Mrs Teresa Cipot. 51 present. 46 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The decree has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Andreja Mihalič to the judicial office of Judge for Offences at the Judge for the Offences of Murska Sobota. We're voting. 50 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The decree has been adopted. I am also voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Breda Andolšek to the judicial office of the Court of Justice for offences before the Court of Offences of Ljubljana. We're voting. There's 53 present, 48, 1 up. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues, I note that the following items of the agenda remain unfinished: 8, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34, 29, pardon, 29. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that those points be postponed to one of the future meetings. Anybody want a word on that? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. 49 present, 42 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that we have also adopted this decision. I hereby conclude the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much, and as much as possible, have a nice weekend.
