ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend this afternoon's meeting of the following Members and Members: Leopold Grošelj, Alojz Peterle, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Stanislav Brenčič, Yuri Malovrov for the afternoon part of the session, Andrej Fabjan for the afternoon part of the session, Janez Janša, Pavel Rupar, Franz Pukšič for the afternoon part of the session, Ferry Horvat, Anton Delak for the afternoon part of the session, Roberto Battelli, mag. Janez Kramberger and Bogomir Vnučec for the afternoon part of the session. Since we will determine the presence in the hall, please kindly insert the cards and press the "quorum" button to determine the presence. We're detecting a presence. Since there's certainly more than 42 of us in the hall, I'd like to ask your attention. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to establish our presence for the second time immediately after the first determination. I ask you kindly to really press the "quorum" button and thus ensure the work of the National Assembly. We're detecting a presence. Since again we have failed, since there are truly more of us in the Chamber than the screen shows, I will try again, and then we will have to interrupt in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 15 minutes, but I think that, given that there is certainly enough of us in the Chamber to be able to make a valid decision, there is no need. [[...]] We're rediscovering presence. There are 47 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, which is why I welcome the Minister and Secretary of State. Today's continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of yesterday's adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law, and then to the 34th item, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on secondary education, and in order to continue. When the amendments are ready for the 5th item, this is the proposal for a road transport law, the assembly will also carry out this item on the agenda. When considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools - 33. The agenda we started yesterday was interrupted by the session at work, when representatives of the groups of Members had the floor. The text is therefore given by representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not yet presented an opinion on the draft law yesterday. He spoke on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, representatives of the parliamentary groups who presented themselves all confirmed that they would support the proposal to supplement the primary school law. We will also support the proposal in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Let me start like this. At one of the festivities at the end of the compulsory primary schooling, the students said: The school is not a joke, at the end you even say thank you. That is true, many students, teachers, parents, and, above all, those who take school work seriously. This is certainly the case with school law makers. During the years of preparation, the law experienced a number of modifications, additions and changes, but through the procedure it kept and maintained the red thread of conceptual solutions written in the White Paper. No law is written in such a way that the unaltered will endure forever. A good law allows for individual changes, additions that do not undermine its essence. The proposed amendments to the Basic School Act also do not break, but they are meaningfully included in the law, making it even more appropriate for those who also write the law. And that is exactly what a school, a primary school which is compulsory under the Constitution, must ensure equal opportunities for compulsory education, where all children, regardless of health and social status, will receive equal treatment. The drafters of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools took into account the important comments made by the professional public and included them in the proposal for amendments meaningfully and professionally. Let me just refresh some of the changes that the Secretary of State presented yesterday. It is reasonable that the deadline for the compulsory programme of the nine-year primary school for all schools in the Republic of Slovenia has moved by one year to ensure the staffing and spatial conditions. The group's examination of pupils' knowledge at the end of the first and second education periods has been well-encumbered by the professional public - in a change the founders wisely suggest that this examination of knowledge by national testing is voluntary. The number of subjects from five to three shall also be reduced in the case of compulsory completion of the national test. The subject of ethics and society is given a new professional title, civic education and ethics. Not only the name, here the content is changed or added, but also the content of the changes. In the primary school in the national mixed areas, the state provides an additional two hours a week, as well as an additional two hours for pupils with special needs. With the changes and additions, the school will better and better pursue the goals, increase the quality and sustainability of the knowledge acquired in students, train students for a better life and profession, and enable school-bound people to identify areas where they can be successful. As a result of this, the LDS Members support the amendment of the Law or the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	The DeSUS Group, of course, supports the proposed amendments and additions to the primary school law. Since some amendments are merely formal in nature, and in particular those relating to the extension of the deadlines for a nine-year-old to take up time to prepare programmes for the needs and premises, the other amendments are also substantively geared towards different areas. This is followed by an increase in teaching hours in national mixed territory in order to reach greater knowledge and a more equal and equivalent educational standard. The extension of schooling in the 10th year of schooling for students with special needs who have successfully completed primary school does not intend to continue schooling.The students' burden of learning after 3 and 6 years of schooling should become voluntary. And at the end of school, the number of subjects should be reduced from 5 to 3. By transforming the subject of ethics and society into a newly created subject, civic education and ethics, the Ministry of Education and the relevant school institutions will probably also prepare the necessary programmes and materials in time and train teachers for this training. We will support the amendments in the parliamentary group, as the reasons for these changes are certainly positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written statements and the discussion of possible debaters is therefore limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if one third of the Members present oppose it. We vote on the proposed decision. Unfortunately, the first vote was not able to be carried out properly. There are certainly more of us in the Chamber, so I respectfully ask you to ensure that our vote is valid in the second vote by pressing one of the keys. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision to discuss and decide together on the articles to which amendments have not been tabled. We are voting on the proposal for a decision for a second time. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 29.6.2001, in which there are three amendments. We will also discuss and decide on the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party on 5.7.2001, which we received on the bench. Today you have received these amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia on the bench and are submitted to Articles 4 and 8. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, namely the amendment to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We've tabled an amendment to which you've received an explanation. Regardless of whether our amendments are not adopted, we support the law. We just thought we could help with this amendment. Otherwise, the explanation is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We therefore decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to Article 4. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 33. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 8. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. We're moving on to the amendment review. I am giving Article 5 and the Government's amendment to Article 5, which is supported by the mother's working body, to discuss and decide. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 5 is amended. We are moving back to the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. I am putting to the debate and decision Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8 of which the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? For no, we pass through the Lord Jerovšek. Here you are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I'll support this article, even though it doesn't seem enough, but it's in the direction I was talking about yesterday. I am pleased that the party of young people felt a pulse in the Slovenian public last year with the actions of Minister Šturm, where the Slovenian public has also rejected plebiscite as at the referendum recently before the second law. This check by students and students constantly, and I regret that the minister for ideological reasons has tried to cancel what the Minister of Storm has done positively. This article goes in this direction so that in time we will come back to one normal feeling for the students in primary school. Our students are stressed, this is the majority of the serious professional public, the pedagogical recognition and recognition, and further steps need to be taken to this end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I would like to refer to Mr Jerovšk as well as to the proposers of this amendment for a simple reason. The views of the Slovenian public cannot be discussed in such a uniform way. The Slovenian public has different views on the verification as well as differing views in the professional public. The planned follow-up, the professional monitoring of the changes introduced in primary school, will only provide adequate information on how far the threshold for final examination in primary school has been raised and how far it has not been. It is simply a method of identifying knowledge standards at the end of school, and this is the purpose of final verification. The primary population is, unfortunately, shrinking. They are no longer so numerous that, at the end of the verification, the basic purpose would be to make selections at those schools which had to limit entry. The number of schools limiting enrolment and those who may actually be carrying out final checks under more stress than other students is decreasing. The number of people who could have enrolled in selected schools this year is extremely high. And if he holds the data that he could read, there are only 80 of those who couldn't enroll in the chosen school. Therefore, it seems to me that it is not possible to support the amendment of the Youth Party and I will support what the Government is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek wishes to replicate the implementation of Mrs Potrate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I have to replicate Mrs. Potter. But I think, even though she's reading that I'm talking about verification, I think she's been talking about it a lot right now. Mrs Potrata said here that the Slovenian public has a very different opinion on this verification. You're wrong, Mrs. Potter. During the pre-election period, when you were aware of all these Members sitting here that this is a politically extremely important issue, there was almost no one among you who would have committed himself to maintaining verification. The candidate for liberal democracy, my opponent in Slovenia Bistrica, has explicitly stated that it is a matter of torture of children and that it is against such torture. And we're actually on it. Look, if you have any hope, or if you want to, put this on the referendum. But not because, of course, people will say that you don't have to have a child. But I'll tell you, the result will be even more plebiscite than it was recently. And there, at that referendum, you rejected all the expertise in that marriage. You've rejected the entire profession. A piece of expertise, ideologically defined for. It's an ideological piece, not a professional one. It's the same thing. The section of the profession, which, while in position, is in position, advocates inadvertently. But you don't want to see any negative effects. There's some smart balance to be found. You need a smart balance. It's not the goal of our primary school. It's not the goal of our high school. It's not the goal of our high school. It's the goal of our high school. When the pediatrician told me that it was during graduation and when the tests were done with young people's stomachs, think about it. Every day's stress. And you are not prepared for a serious debate on these things, as you were not prepared for a serious debate under the law on artificial insemination. And you know how the people reacted to what they said about your arrogance. And now we're talking arrogantly here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I've got five applications for replicas. First, Mrs Danica Simšič, then Mr Partljič, then Mr Sok, Mr Petan and Mrs Potter. Mrs. Danica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to respond to Mr Jerovsk's words. I believe that the pulse of the Slovenian public and of the Slovenian public opinion is not the pulse measured by Mr Jerovšek or his pulse. But I would like to respond to what he said when he said that he had done an extremely kind act to the elementary school of the former Minister, Minister Sturm. I do not know if it has been sufficiently exposed, but I believe that the act of Minister Sturm has been completely irresponsible, because in the course of primary school education, which has been placed under conditions for external examination and entry conditions in secondary schools, it has completely changed conditions and left out the fifth grade of primary school. Which meant thousands and thousands of Slovenian 8-year-olds who completed education and enrolled in secondary schools this year, you obviously do not want to ask yourself that question. What stressful situations these children have endured, not to mention teachers or parents. For my understanding, this was a completely irresponsible act and unacceptable, because it is difficult for me to accept that at some point in time, you are changing conditions. For example, if we were to change the conditions for something else now, which would be your customer's will or priority, we would, of course, trigger a big shout and scream. But what was done to these children, you didn't ask yourself. And I think you should probably ask yourself these things, think about the stress these kids have been going through, and then go on talking about it this way. Remember all those who graduated from eighth grade this year and enrolled in high school. I hope that the current Minister and all ministers, who will come to this position at any time, will be more responsible and will respect the principle that once the conditions of a generation are laid down for continuing education or education, these conditions will not change during the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	My speech is a replica, although it is clear to me that it is legitimate to think so differently. And also, I might say, the dramatic invitation of colleague Jožet to this, about ulcers on the stomachs, stomachs, and so on, is not to be ironized; so understand me that I think otherwise. Let me first say, of course, that I was a teacher after primary education and I also stood in the classroom for ten years, from that one class where I had 20 children in the entire school until I was learning Slovenian and English. I was always surprised that such a very good and so sovereign judgment on the teaching work, the treatment of children and the school have exactly those who are, I will not only say parents, because in life, you can no longer have a better mission as a parent of your child and watch it, but what some judgments, in the form of an expert, about school, have always had, rarely did the schoolers, but the people who came to the parent meetings. First of all, I'd like to take Mrs. Secretary's protection. There is no reason to call it that, for ideological reasons, he sees things differently. These are long discussions, professional in various ways. School was always bad. Put it to the referendum, or we'll do schoolwork and homework and don't worry about people just not being at heart. However, if I only remember from literature, Cankar and Voranco, both in some cartoons say that it was the happiest day of their childhood when they watched the school burn. I used to go to school when the teacher told us to give up our fingers and beat us with a stick on our fingernails. Fifty years ago. I remember. There's no school like this today. Stress, child humiliation may have ever been, today’s school has undoubtedly been, and you cannot say that it is inhumane. This issue of external verification, or as he is called, is, in my humble opinion, a typical example of manipulation, particularly to a large extent even manipulation of teachers who have felt that their work and performance at a school are being tested in this way. Because I know that I was at some school where they couldn't wait to go, say, that mathematician who was already a little drunk and cold and didn't learn anything to retire and no one could even prove it to him. And that's what my third-grade granddaughter says when I say, "Congratulations Ursha, you were great," and she raises her hand, and she says, "No, I'm great, I'm super great," in third grade. Which is probably a very large majority of all Slovenian children, but she cries at home when she sees that she is not going, because she will not be admitted to high school because she will have too few points, which is probably not the fault of the legislation, but is worth talking to that teacher who has been kind of aroused by this fear since the first day. In short, I have the impression that teachers in particular have taken over this as some kind of extra surveillance. Even the law that we're going to talk about, that's with children with special needs, were teachers, wherever I've been explaining these laws, against because if you do, my children will be checked, if they have half a deaf child, they won't have such a big score in class, and I'll be punished. In short, it seems to me that this is one thing we're doing a completely unnecessary pump. After all, today, in this race for its existence, a person is constantly subject to verification when applying for a job, during a traineeship period, at last on a driving test and wherever it seems this way, even that we are preparing children for such tests. If things aren't in some way ultimatum and scary, but normal, you have to put an account every now and then for your knowledge. In short, as a teacher, father and grandfather, I do not see any ideological or other question in this. The question is how are we all ready to interpret this together? Or as Minister Gaber here advocated in long and patient debates, or in such a way as to frighten generations and teachers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Personally, I think our children are actually under a lot of pressure at school. I think that Mr Partlič is this as a teacher now in the right way and very broad explanation. I can see that they spend a lot of time in schools. In fact, if we analyzed it, we could see that they were more at school than their parents were at work. That when they come home from school, they have many tasks to perform. In addition, the analysis shows that our children in schools acquire too much factual knowledge. And I think there was an analysis published last year that showed that we are in functional literacy on the tail in Europe. So, with this and this school, there's actually something really wrong. And it is our responsibility, Mrs Simšič, to all of us Members, to take this matter seriously and to take this issue seriously. Not like this, I would say, with the left hand we say, "Dr. Sturm, who solved a matter, was irresponsible when he was right," or, as Mrs. Potrate says, "but she will determine the profession and evaluate what is right and what is wrong." We should do this today, not wait for some time in the future, when someone, if he will, will evaluate the matter, for children are under great stress. And the results of this stress show that there is an increasing drug problem. You could've just read in Dinner today. A 17-year-old Celjanka died when she went to the disco and was brought home dead. So let's ask ourselves, where are the reasons why so young people are interfering with such drastic things as drugs, and this is in such an increase. The reason for this is also for these children, not only in primary school, but also in high school, who are under too much pressure. And that's exactly what's happening, through the work of children, it's estimated the value of teachers being evaluated through the work of children. Teachers, if the kids don't have good grades in the knowledge check, they'll say I don't teach well. I can see it in my kids. She'll agree to all the conditions at school, and I have to show up at school myself and say, "No, but my kid won't do that, because I just can't see for myself that he can't do it anymore." Because at school she is forced to cooperate in every possible way because they collect from children those who are the best who want to cooperate and overload them. That's a fact. Look, I think civil society, I think Manca Kosher, I once watched this on TV, collected over 3,000 signatures against checking in primary school. If it's nothing, let's just do it with our left hand and let the ministry have ten more years to sell it, whether it's good or not. For me, 3,000 signatures are a huge number. And on this basis, the Parliament should also say something, because I believe that these 3,000 signatures were mainly contributed by parents. So we parents who observe and see that our children are overburdened in school. And at this point, I'm saying that children are too burdened. And because they're too burdened, they can't do all of this, and that's why they can't quickly, I would say, fall into different extremes, but reach for some other means, as I mentioned earlier. I suggest we take this matter seriously, and if you think that today this amendment cannot be supported - I can say for myself that I will support it - then at least we can order the Ministry to bring a solution to Parliament quickly in this regard, not to delay and say so, for some professional public will once assess it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have four more reported to the replicas, first Mr Petan, then Mrs Potrata, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Pukšič and two reported to the debate, Mr Bozič and Mr Gaber. Excuse me. Is something wrong? The implementation of Mrs Simšič was accompanied by the hands which indicated this order. Mr. Petan has a word for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I'm replicating Mrs. Patrati. In fact, I was struck by her thought, and I know that's not her personal opinion, but that's the opinion of a certain work, I'll tell the professional public. In fact, it will be necessary to wait for the results of the verification, and then in a certain period of time, we will assess what the results are. I think I got her thinking right. I'm afraid I can't agree with that. This seems to me like we're going to introduce a method, and then we're going to monitor what the responses are going to be - if they're good, okay, we're going to keep it if they're bad and we're going to change things. Actually, it's about the kids. It's not an object we can test on, it's a lot of people. And these are young people who are even more sensitive and have stress from their youth can have even greater consequences for their future lives. In fact, verification is certainly stressful, but a one-time test of knowledge is even more stressful. For me, there is something completely different year-by-year knowledge check, throughout the school year, when you are more in the mood, the other days are slightly less, but the overall result is just the same as it is. One check means you have to be exactly that day, that hour or that two hours, 100 percent if you want to show the maximum. What if you have a bad day that day, I'm gonna say what's human, we're people like that, and, like, you know, you know a lot more, and that day you're having a bad day? That's what it says, you're going to show some significantly worse knowledge than your actual knowledge is, but it's going to mark you for the rest of your life - and it's stressful. Children are aware of this and not only are they aware of it, but parents at home are also putting pressure on them. Of course, the pressure is a few days earlier, a little while earlier, and that day, who really isn't, I don't know, mentally so strong, kneels, and can spend his whole career doing it. Because he won't have half a dot or one dot, he won't be able to enroll in that school he wants. He had a bad day that day, and he spent his entire career because of his enepica. That is why such verification is not good - I speak in general. Because such opinions are very mass, I will say, but in that professional public who thinks he is the only one who can determine something, and parents think very differently, and children probably do. That's what I was gonna say. This should be considered substantially earlier in order to bring this into certain situations that are now emerging to us, that certain professions are fully sex-oriented. I mean, feminized are certain professions. If anyone thinks it's a good thing that all of a sudden all doctors are women, then he's wrong. If they think it's a good thing that it's legal, that all students or most students are women's students, then they're wrong. If anyone thinks that's right in the teaching profession, then he's wrong. I'm not saying that I'm not telling anyone that I shouldn't have signed up, that, let's just say, women are more resilient and decent to follow. It's just that it's not a sign that then it's also normal for certain professions to be, I'll say, completely monopolized with a certain sex, either with a man or with a woman, that's not good. But this proves because it's a trend that our school system is in this direction. I can give you a bunch, but the fact is, I don't think it's time for that right now. I just want to say that such one-off checks are not healthy and stressful and that this really has a negative impact on children. That's not what we want. And that's the end of it. Mrs Potrata has rightly found that our school population is shrinking. There are fewer and fewer children, and we are always giving them new responsibilities, constantly new checks, instead of reducing the checks because we have fewer children anyway. Sometimes it will happen that we will have more places to sign than we will have a child, but we will still require verification from them so that after this check we can sort them out in some sects - you can go to this school and you can't. But it's something else again. For me it would be necessary to save that first year of the next year to enter, or from the transition to the 1st year of high school, 1st year of college. That would be right for me, because those who would demonstrate knowledge throughout the year would, satisfactorily, be able to move forward, not to get a one-time check - I immediately conclude - half a dot more and half a dot less and this is now your life's breakout. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. I repeat to Mr. Jerovska. She's clearly speaking to me. It is difficult for someone who has spent three decades of his professional life in the school sphere to report that he is speaking in his mind. Therefore, I cannot say that I am doing the same as Mr Jerovšek is doing when, in one case, he concludes in general. So let me put it this way. Verification and evaluation are part of the educational system. How verification and education are carried out can be determined and determined. On the one hand, the State is required to lay down legislation and adopt systemic solutions. Of course, it can be challenged how these systemic solutions are then transferred to everyday school practice. And I'm not saying that we're making these decisions, but sometimes it's not like there's a need for an inspection response. How we deal with school matters, however, I would like to refer to the Slovenian public opinion, which repeatedly shows that the school system is one for which the Slovenian public has a high level of confidence. Then it cannot be in this school system and in the solutions that are all as bad as Mr Jerovšek wants to show. That everything is wrong. Of course, the shadow government, led by Mrs Manca Kosher, has disputed and expressed its opinion and collected its signatures, but it is important to ask how we react when we are teachers, how we react when it is the school system and how we react as parents. Not to mention that there are many things to be heard, including the great distrust of teachers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Now I owe it to all three of us to replicate. So if I'm running out of time in one block, please consider another replica. First of all, I must take the order of Mrs Simšič. When she said that the pulse I detect was not the pulse of the Slovenian public and that it was not the pulse that Jerovšek measured. Of course not. I don't measure it. I detect it, I watch it, and I follow it, even some polls. I'll tell you again, you ordered them under the fertilization law and they were faked, deliberately repaired last week. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Mr Jerovšek, I ask again and remind you to refrain from making accusations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	to manipulate the public. [[...]] That's why I find such an obvious imprecise. At the same time, Mrs Simšič tried to tell me if I still remember that it is difficult to speak if you know nothing. I have an eight-year-old, too, at least that. I also had an eight-year-old, but even though he's dialed 129 points, it's more than nine than is possible in primary school, based on confessions, I'm firmly against such a level of this check, because I see among my classmates and I've been working on it for a long time and I also have to make a point, which was also said in the back, and now the chemists will be discussing it. I mean, that's incorrect, and also probably Mr. Skoko will be told, and now he'll be a magician. the vets discussed this. Members of Parliament have a right, and I'm a bit involved in this area myself. In 1996, I announced in my pre-election programme that I would fight an external prom. I'm against this form of external prom and I'm still in the same position today. And I repeat, because of the negative effects. I hope I have the right to at the same time, but of course I say when you speak of funds. [[...]] You wanted to humiliate Minister Sturm that he was irresponsible and I don't know what. I join Mr Sok's opinion, once it is necessary to start. In fact, all these checks, primary school and high school, are, I'm not saying there's no good grain here, I'm already replicating to Mr Partljic. I'm giving him the right to do a lot of good. But for certain individuals, this is very useful. But if we make a line, it's not for the National Corps. I'll tell you why. Now I'm going to go to an area I know better, or at least I think I know it better. That, external graduation and orientation, qualification to the university based on that. When I was a technical director at the factory, I asked every student who came to practice, talking to him for an hour about how he felt left and right. I tell you, 70% said they were mainly chemists, mechanics, electricians, so they wouldn't study it if they could study another. I'll tell you again, he's not going to develop a new product like this. That's not gonna be a successful developer. And if this is the extent of the Slovenian Youth Corps, it feels stressful that it has to study something that it does not seem to be pleased with. But if I was free to sign up, I'd have universities. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Because the European network must be a free university. Then I'd have every option if someone lost a year. But now they lose him as an undergraduate and lose him, they don't graduate completely because of stress. And that's bad for the National Corps. And also this level of verification in primary school is bad for the national corps, because we do neurotics, I'll tell you that we do neurotics. And I'm not talking about my own kids. They didn't have a problem at all. Still, I felt that this was bad. We cannot want children and young people who will have problems based on the stress caused by stress, so severe. But I agree with Mr. Partlich. It's not the stress of humiliating it, it's less today. That's what you should say. There's something positive about this school. And education as such, I'm not saying it hasn't improved much. Like learning languages. But this goes on, today's kids are a thousand times better in languages than we used to be. However, this is not all bad for Mrs Spending, of course. Everything's not bad at all. However, in checking, I'm going for another five minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Mr. Jerovšek, I'm sorry. However, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a replica twice after five minutes. The replica was given. I think you've explained your disagreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Then I replicated Mrs Simšič, Mr Partljić, and I would also like Mrs Trotati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Of course I will if Mr Jakič is quiet when he has no word. We could teach him that at school, but apparently he's neither parents nor in school. Mr. Jakič, I think you've gone over the edge of good taste. But there's obviously something wrong with the school system if we get those graduates.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Mr. Pukšič, please focus on the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Absolutely. So, I'm glad, in fact, and on the basis of any amendment to the Basic Education Act, which we have tabled, some movements have taken place, and the current Article 8 is significantly better than it was at the beginning. I am certainly joining all those who say that the school system has changed considerably for the better. That's a fact. Respectable, however, is the fact that in primary schools we have substantially too many, in my opinion, needlessly too many security guards. This way we probably do not work in terms of the upbringing of our children and, of course, the result of all this is also various divisions that are taking place in primary education. Remember, I don't know, years or two ago, in Maribor in one of the primary schools, this, I'll say, tragic case that happened, etc. It would be good, of course, and it is wise to limit or stop horses at this point of passion and simply try to listen to each other and drive this debate through a patient dialogue. Look, we're talking about education, we're talking about primary education. We expect something from the children, but I'll say, we don't know or we don't want to discuss it this way. Look. Of course, I'm here to check it out. Knowledge testing can also be done in different ways. Knowledge checks may even be pleasant for children, since the purpose of testing knowledge is probably not to find what the child does not know, but it has another purpose and a different effect. Therefore, of course, it is possible to address these issues in a completely different way and, of course, in a positive way for children, so that there will be no fear of that acquired or unencumbered point of assessment, one or the other. I also have some experience from this area - 10-year-old work in education and I myself have or have still have three children who have gone through the whole system, primary school, secondary school and now some go through higher school - is a lot of wrong and I also have bad experiences, have bad experiences. No one can assure me that he cannot on that day, at that moment, which of the children or which of the girls gets the day that they receive at a certain time. And at a time like this, of course, she's not capable, she can't give away everything she knows, even more, significantly less than she's capable of. It is right, and I also believe in teachers, because the vast majority of Slovenian teachers are good, significantly better than we pay - we must be aware of this - they do much more than they get for their work and it is right to trust these people. The confidence in when they evaluate when they work with children, i.e. the whole triad, subject through and so forth, is, I am deeply convinced, well enough and objectively assessed at the end of the term or at the end of this year. So once again, it is possible to really talk about this until the third reading, and let's try to do this, mandatory checks on students during the third period, to get out of this law. Believe me, this will only benefit the Slovenian population, all the children in our country - we will do it for them, what is good and what is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Danica Simšič has the replica, then Mr Partljič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond again to Mr Jerovsk's words. Of course, he has the right to his opinion, which I do not contest in any way. However, I firmly believe that he has no right, neither as a man nor as a Member protected by parliamentary immunity, to waste words just like that and to instigate lies. I declare in full consciousness and with all my responsibility that I have never, ever, ever, ever filed any public opinion research, and I have even less talked anyone into publishing false information at any time. And, Mr Jerovšek, I expect, demand and demand that you excuse me for these lies, instigations and falsehoods. That's one thing. Second thing. I think it makes no sense to explain that I said that Mr Sturm had committed an irresponsible act because he had changed the conditions of the generation to which those conditions had been imposed. That's what I wrote down. But then no one published this letter of mine in the media, and I took this opportunity to make it public. And I still think so. Whether your children are eight - year - olds or not, whether they have had problems or not, but in this country there are several thousand and thousands more of their parents. I repeat - their conditions have been changed during the education itself, for which the conditions were previously set. I am not saying that education and education in Slovenia is all good in this system. But it's just that it's just a chorus to do stuff and stuff, of course it's not right. Then around functional illiteracy. You know, functional illiteracy has been checked in adults, in many older people, such as Slovenian eighth graders and, of course, we cannot refer to the current system of education and education. Maybe we could do it on the last one, but not on the one we put in the last 10 years. Even Mr. Puksich. You know, Mr Pukšič, as a rule almost every girl, when she becomes a girl or a woman, she gets her period - that's what she's called. There's nothing wrong with calling it menstruation. This is a perfectly natural phenomenon, a natural cycle that each woman has accompanied for a very long life. This is not a disease, it does not mean a decrease in mental ability, but it is something completely natural. Don't be embarrassed about these things if you want to publicize them, to name them and, of course, to treat them that way. Neither menstruation nor illness nor pregnancy is a disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Partljič, then Mr Jerovšek wishes to replicate Mrs Simšič, Mrs Potrate to Mr Pukšić and Mr Pukšič then to Mrs Simšič. I respectfully ask that in these debates and replicas we do not move away from the amendment, which is still under consideration at this time. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would first, if you don't mind, repeat this call. Look. We've already been taken left-right, very far from the amendments, now we're all going to replicate for another public research, for another thing. In this passion for replicas, I'm no better here, I'm afraid we're going to walk away from what's being discussed at all. And I wouldn't go to this replica right now, and I'm going to make the same mistake myself, so I'm going to talk about something that's not direct, but just to illustrate how we're not going to get anywhere. Look. That, Franz, is what I'd like to say to you here, and maybe to all the former discussants. Look, not so much by the way - if I don't agree with Roman Jakick, who has hindered you, I don't agree with you, maybe he deserves an observation - but don't say, look what schools are like if they've raised such a diplomat. Don't say one tragedy about drugs in Celje who took a girl who wasn't even inclined to do it. Look, this is the school system. Don't tell school security that it's a matter of violence that teachers and education do, and it's a security guard to protect society from these schoolchildren outside. The drugs are here, brought by civilization, a great tragedy, and we're trying to protect schools. Not now to point to teachers and to education, look, she's like this, one girl lost her life. Not in the case of a bully, not the way to say, "Look at the schools we have. It's a reverse image, and we're not really looking for the reasons where they are, but we're condemning the school system for every thing that comes our way. This seems the same to us, thank you, beautiful Danica, an example of poor literacy. Slovenians are not concerned with this, poor functional literacy, now that we are learning these new functional writings at an old age. Not the kids. Everyone knows that wherever I travel around the world right now, I meet the children of our graduates. [[...]] I always ask them how they drive to school. These are always the best students, Slovenian children in other schools. There's almost no problem. So don't just talk over school all the time. I'll say another thing about that. This is exactly the moment - although there are checks in high school twice, as you know, it is not only one - this is the wrong time. In fact, eight years of schooling and 15 years of schooling and 19 years of schooling should train us to be the right moment. Then I don't know how many times we'll have these checks if we wait for all the students in some consteration to answer. After all, Slovenia has been ailing over the centuries so that it could use once the right moment. And that's actually how this check works. So all these years, he learns that he will be able to answer the right moment. And I won't be answering again. I'm sorry. It's just that somehow it always picks me up if the kids on the road don't say hello to say it's the school's fault. Two of you run into each other - the school's fault. Thank God that children don't have to follow our example, because maybe they wouldn't take the best. The question is society, but the school is a reflection.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Now he's got a replica of Mr. Puksich. I really ask once again politely that we do not go through what our esteemed colleague Partič has found out. Of course, the rules in force allow us to deal with replicas of this kind for a substantial period of time, as required by this amendment that we have before us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Look, I hope I've made myself clear enough in the first replica not to throw everything in one basket. What Mr Partljič has done now seems to me to have been wrong. No, I didn't say it was all school, education, everything was bad, even more. I highlighted the good aspects of education, highlighted the good Slovenian teachers and said that for how much they were paid, they do more and are better than they were paid. That's what I said, and that was right. But there's something wrong. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is also wrong for teachers to rape children - I apologize, but this was in the newspaper when they are disgusted - but of course this is not a matter of school law, but of legal law when people, parents are disgusted and so on above the level of punishment. Of course it's wrong. But that's why we can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Mr Pukšič, we are talking about the amendment on external knowledge verification, and this expansion of the debate into areas that have absolutely no connection with the amendment they are considering are causing new replicas, and that is not in fact in accordance with the rules of procedure. Therefore, I remind you that please stick to the external verification of knowledge covered by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Absolutely. This is all I want to do, so in my first replica, I have asked that there is still time in the third reading to agree that perhaps such things, these negative elements that we have talked about -- not all bad, not all bad, but once again, I stress -- that we are trying to exclude such elements from not giving this opportunity, that the legislation itself does not encourage this, all those negative elements that we have talked about, and that we give weight and emphasis to those good things of school legislation, teachers, work with children, education and so on. Of course, education depends largely on parents, not teachers. But it's one part, so besides education, it's also education. Of course, I'm not going to run into the things that Danica Simšič wanted to point to today at 47 years of age, Danica, I really don't need your schools, and you can keep it to yourself. And I'm not going down to that level. I'm sorry that you did. "Horuk is changing", of course, unfortunately, the practice has been working in Parliament for the past five years. I'm here. I know what was going on. I know what was going on. Look, this is wrong. This, once again, I stress, let us listen to this article. Let us agree and let us do what is best for Slovenian children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Replica has Mrs Potrata to implement Mr Pukšić in the previous work. Then Mr. Jerovšek. Mr Jerovšek, Mrs Potrata has appeared before you, you have previously replicated in the implementation work. The thing can go on forever, Mr Jerovšek, you get the word then. Mrs. Potrata, please. And I ask you to limit yourself in replicas to the part that we are considering right now to make some sense of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will introduce my replica to Mr Puksic with satisfaction that the Slovenian school, in addition to writing and reading, also introduces listening as a functional objective. Many replicas could be avoided if we listened better to each other. But what I want to say about the proposed amendment of the Young Slovenia Party is this. The debate turned in this direction that external verification is unacceptable because it is a unique situation that is so stressful. This should also be challenged because Mr Puksic has asked us to consider what we are accepting. It is not true that external checks would have been introduced in a manner similar to throwing a non-float into the water. After all, the student’s examination and evaluation actually meet the entire school period. However, for external verification they first have an experimental check, then the check was carried out for the first time, and for those who may have slipped or feel that the result could be improved, another check was introduced. If I come from this year's experience, so that, while there is an interest in another, is said to be a re-examination at the end of primary school, it has dropped slightly, because it is understandable that those schools where to register with the required number of points have fallen. This means that the first verification has not been avoided, but it is also impossible to agree to this if we consider the objective of external verification to be, at the same time, the identification and provision of basic knowledge standards, which is one of the objectives of school renewal. But how can a society that has put knowledge as its value, and if we add to it that we say that we should have as high as possible standards in knowledge, that we will be competitive in this life as we call it, that we will survive it in the third millennium, how can a society give up knowledge as its values and ensure such standards, and I do not understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has a replica for the implementation of Mrs Danice Simšič, then Mr Sok and Mr Kremjar; three are waiting for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much. First, I will replicate Mrs Putrati and then Mrs Simšičev because I applied for both replicas. Mrs. Potts told me that I had been able to tell her that she was talking to me. At first, she gave me such an epiphany, and I mentioned only one piece of her talk that she was talking about, so I don't accept that. And I also realize, Mrs Potrata, that evaluation is part of the educational system - and that is exactly what I am committed to. The Ministry of Education has an education institution, has a teaching institute, and should monitor the implementation of the curriculum. And on the basis of this we can make a much less stressful school, teachers will also have to be quality and quality. Don't tell me, Mrs. Pojata, that this is an attack on Slovenian teachers; my wife is a teacher too, so at least a little pulse at school I certainly know through this. Nor is it true that Mrs. Manca Kosher was a minister in the shadows, but she was a minister in the women's government. That's it. Then Mrs. Simsichev. Mrs Simšičeva, if you deliberately understood that I personally thought that you had been commissioned by surveys in the law on artificial insemination, then you have become naive so that you could tell me. You know exactly that I pointed to this page, and please, we are so politicians, so long that you knew exactly. But if you've taken it personally, then I can easily apologize. These polls that were, but they're so "move all," we know what they meant. And that's why it's not right to read me "horuk" and "horuk work and supremacy." I haven't tabled any amendments since I made a minor improvement. You've been reading "horuk and supremacy", but your representation in this law was sometimes "horuk and pervades", and this law was "horuk and preval". The public turned him down, you know. That's why you've been extremely contradictory and you've been in conflict with each other, and you've been with yourself in this "horuk and travesty". That's exactly what you've been doing in the recent past. I also agree with Mr Partljic that the purpose of the school should be to be the right moment, a true student. That's what we stand for. I argue that today's school, although it is good, quality, extensive, and with the final result, is not exactly that. Many students are not able to take a full step into life. This, however, is what everyone is finding, and this is why something has to be changed gradually. This external inspection, the external graduation, it's too stressful in this way and it's harmful for the national corps, I stress once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the replica, then Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I want to replicate to Mr. Partlich. For he always discusses as much as I can figure out after this time when I am in Parliament in the same way. First he sprinkles himself with ashes, then he teaches the lesson to all those who debated before him, and so he attributed to me that I said that the school was responsible for increasing the use of drugs and similar matters. I didn't even say that. If he knew he had two ears to listen to and one mouth to speak to, then he wouldn't have attributed it to me. I have limited myself in my debate to stressful situations, to which the school has also contributed, and from this I have come to believe that it is more and more and more growing drug-related issues. This is a problem all over Europe, and it is likely that the whole of Europe will have to consider where the reasons are for this to occur and that this is going at such a pace. Doctors, sociologists, psychologists are alerting us to this stressful situation and to all these deviations. But we don't react to it, and we don't hear it, and we shut our ears. These are problems that we should talk about and do something about. The fact that this amendment has been tabled by young people means something to me. So, those who feel this most have written this matter. But we, who are parents, say, are none of our business. But I see in my children that they live in stress and stress because of school. But I'm not, I'm saying that because of the students, I said that the school was responsible for growing up, like taking drugs and so on. I didn't say that, even though I could say two cases when teachers were baking drugs. I know about them. That's not what I'm saying. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Please, Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Something he gave me that I didn't say. [[...]] And against this I protest and ask Mr Partljič that he too is valid if he has long been a Member to listen, but not to all of us who have discussed before him so with his left hand that he has a lesson here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replicas in the next order. Mr Germić, Mrs Potrata, Mr Moge and Mr Partljič. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. In my replica - I was thinking whether to apply to a replica or a debate - I would try to replicate my interlocutors, who were somewhere to be detected, opposed to having compulsory knowledge checks at the end of primary school education. So, I had the opportunity to be very closely connected with the school system, because at the time of education I had put quite a few reforms through, and then I worked both at the university and at the high school and, of course, very closely followed what was going on. Of course, it is right to discuss these issues politically, because we are here as politicians. Of course, it is right to take into account the expertise in every debate we have here. And, of course, when we talk about knowledge testing at the end of primary education, we cannot take this knowledge check out of the context of the entire education system. From the whole education system. Before I return to this subject, of course, I would like to replicate and only substantiate what Mrs Potrate has already said before me. So it's not a one-time event, but the primary school is preparing for a final knowledge check. So, it's about preparing through the verification and evaluation of individual subjects, as well as the experimental examination of knowledge and then the two knowledge checks that are being assessed. So, it's not a one-time attempt that makes it possible to be or not be. This must be taken into account. And when we talk about whether to have it or not, of course, I would very much like to replicate to Mr Petan, who says, leave it open after primary school, leave it open after high school and then let the first years show. As the principal of high school and high school, I say that this is a very old journey and a very unprofessionally reasoned proposal, because the worst thing we can do to a child is feel like failure. And as director of this, I have always been very aware that a child needs to feel that he is able to do what is set before him as a task. And, of course, the school system, I also agree with Mr Pukšič, is doing these tasks very well. So, preparing children for these trials so that they can accept them responsibly, I would say, these tasks as well. Of course, guidance in primary school is not an easy story. With that, I think we can all agree. Because there's a lot of dilemma about how to guide a child through primary school. The more indicators for this direction, the easier it is to decide between the child, the school, and the counseling work, the teachers, and then the parents when this decision is taken together. Of course, no one wants to have a major rash in the first years, both in high school and in universities, if we completely release the transition system from primary to secondary school. Here is a very important argument why this knowledge check is being introduced. Many arguments were already listed here why. Of course, a mandatory examination at the end of primary school education has been carried out in order to verify for the last time the ability to continue child education, including the selection criterion where this is necessary in relation to admission places. Of course, we all want children to be able to be enrolled in the school where they wish. I must say, in recent years, the Ministry's efforts and the network of schools have been enormous. If you are monitoring statistics, this year, if my data is accurate, less than 100 children who have yet to be classified on the basis of this final knowledge check. Of course, the possibility of choosing on professional grounds is what we want to enable the child. Of course, the child’s success is also conditioned by this. It's very difficult to say because I wouldn't be joining this program if I had other options at my disposal. I don't think we can listen to the whole school system on a case-by-case basis. What do we want in schools? In schools, we want peace and clear decisions. Of course, any very quick and unthinkable decision will cause the most damage to the school premises. Of course, in this case, such a decision, which would not be based on professional arguments, would certainly mean this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Replica has Mrs. Spend on implementation [[...]] [[It's not understandable, talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I've exhausted my replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I think that the colleagues I'm replicating, and that's five of them -- I'm not going to quote them for a short time -- speak completely out of the ordinary, and that the Young People's Party has also given its explanation completely unprofessional. People who simply did not care for the details speak out of their feelings now. That my thesis is correct and that I will oppose this amendment I will tell you with the following. In so far as the National Assembly accepts this amendment, it has sent out a white paper and has sent out an existing law on primary school in writing in the explanatory memorandum of the Party of Youth Slovenia: "A final examination of knowledge is necessary only for students who continue to be enrolled in the secondary school programmes, where fewer places are available than the application." As I say, that's not true. The current law in Article 65 states: "The results of knowledge checks at the end of periods may only be used for the purpose provided for in this law." Article 72 states: "The student successfully completes the ninth grade if he has positive grades from all ninth class subjects and has successfully completed the final knowledge check." And then I could read to you, if you like, Article 73, which speaks of successful knowledge, as well as Article 84, which speaks of who can even obtain a final certificate, a certificate of completion of the examination of knowledge. If we accept this, because it is a reduced procedure and we are voting on the whole law. "Ad uno." "Ad due" would like to say that when I was young and went to the roof of Europe Mont Blanc, I had to go there in winter to climb from Kamnicki, Savinijski to Karavank, and thank God that I did it to get back alive. And if we are to look at our young generation, we also need to set some goals for them at the end of the day so that, after certain education is completed, they can move forward, which is undoubtedly what we are discussing on the political side now - the evaluation committees have found out what the expert council has found; and what the Minister has introduced into the law is the opinion of the section of the Republic of Slovenia. And I find it irresponsible to object to the arguments put forward here. And for the third time, I would say that what we're doing here -- and now I'm going to be a bit of a teacher myself for five minutes of truth -- is extremely irresponsible and inefficient to the taxpayers who pay us. Firstly, this law has been introduced since 1998, i.e. three years with corrections. On the committee where we discussed these things, the members of the committee - they said nothing there to prepare for the National Assembly, but here are big, big debates - of course, because they can do it, they know, on whose account. And this third thing, it seems to me that this is the way that the amendment, when these things are discussed in a law that has been tabled for three years, also shows what the attitude is to this area of those who are applying the law at that time. With this, I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, not to pick political points on the children's backs. Let's limit ourselves to this amendment. However, if we want to have a general debate on the school system, this is certainly another opportunity, not an amendment to this article. And I would kindly ask you to lend this amendment, which is a party of young people, because of the arguments I have made and which stand - if you don't believe me, we will not lend you the law - we will not support it. Inbi asked you, Madam Vice-President, to try to limit the debates that do not talk about this article of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Moge, also for your warning and support. All I can actually do, in accordance with the rules of procedure in force, is to ask your respectable colleagues politely, remind you for the first time, for the second time, and then take the floor. However, the topic is, of course, subject to the subject under consideration, whether or not the agenda is followed, subject to the judgement of each individual. Therefore, in further replicas, I ask the distinguished colleague - and in view of the many initiatives that I have received from my colleagues - that unless there is a question of testing the knowledge of the replica, I will remind my colleague of this. Mr. Partlych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	So it doesn't look like I'm sleeping with the ashes. Unfortunately, my replica is not going to be at the level of the previous two replicas, where it would suggest that we proceed. But all I want to say is that in my replicas, I didn't name Mr. Sok anywhere. I appointed two colleagues, maybe not by name, and let me also say that I didn't have it in mind. That's why I don't understand the lesson, Mr Sok, about two ears and one mouth. I don't think I deserve it that way. But mostly, I didn't have you in mind. I just wanted to say, in case we didn't leave the amendment, that there's no point in talking about drugs now. There's no blindness in society. We are unjust to many health, social, pedagogical organizations, institutions that are working hard to find the right answer. Besides, I think the replicas should continue where your colleague ended up. Well, tell me, let me tell you, however, that no one shows to disqualify that you should not talk here, but look, Potratova, Moge, colleague of Germič, are teachers, are teachers, not to say that the professional public, so don't think so. Which is why I don't think others have the right to think otherwise. But perhaps in this case it is also possible to listen, but everything, even in our profession, is not always uniform, for it is understandable. You were, too, I was looking, but that's what people at school are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. So first of all, I'd like to say something about the school system, and I'm replicating it to Mr. Germich, so there'll be no mistake. But first of all, I'm going to say that, say something about the school system and specifically about this issue, not only teachers, but also parents. That's the first one. Just for starters. Mr Germič said that the worst feeling was, of course he meant the students and the students if they had a sense of failure. This is said, given what the content was, this is said to be a free transition from middle to high school, from middle to high school, and then in the year that you were supposed to be saved, you experienced a failure, of course, that would be the worst feeling of failure. I could only ask him specifically. What if you can't get a one-point check on that one, but you can't sign up for the college you wanted, and that's a success. That's what you say, don't say that, that's not an argument. That's not an argument and it doesn't hold. You certainly have less sense of failure or I'll say you have a more appropriate feeling if you haven't shown enough knowledge in a year than you have in a one-time knowledge when you've had a bad day, which I've said before. This is I think that even significantly worse and I myself advocate this system of transition and I think it is better. That last check - the last check is also an expression used by Mr. Germič, whether he is still a student or a student for something capable - I think it is the worst.In recent minutes then you make the most mistake. And you're most stressed out, because it's that last escape, that last door you have to unlock. But if you have this whole door and you can open all this door all year long, it's much less stressful. Because you know, if you have a little less trouble with one of them, you're just going to be with others, and in general, you're going to get what you wanted. Next. Mr. Germich, you said you wanted peace at school. I'm afraid I can't agree with that. This means that when a system is enacted, then a respected public, respected parents, respected children, students, leave the matter alone so that we can sleep peacefully on this system that we have built, and just not "jump" into our area and say anything. Next thing you know. I'll put together more replicas, but only in five minutes. Mr. Mogue said if we accept this amendment, then we're going to tear down the white book. Yeah, we're taking down the white book. I'd say, after all, what's a white book? Then what is this? Is it some kind of dogma, or is it some catechism that we can't touch, which is untouchable? After all, I'll say, even if we blow it up, maybe the whole system will blow up again. Grief is never good. Having peace in a system isn't good either. It's good to blow up sometimes. It's good to have fresh air. One more thing, Mr Mogue, with all due respect, we probably don't understand each other very well. However, you said it was not good to collect political points in children. I completely agree with you. However, Mr Mogue, I would like to remind you that you may have given yourself a little "cartogola", as I have already liked to use this term. - What? If you actually pick up points with it, that means there's something good about it, because you can only get the dots if people accept it. But if they don't accept it, but you can't get political points, you can do more harm to yourself. In this context, I believe that there is probably something good about our thinking on this amendment. Not everything, it certainly is not, as it is not in this white book or in this system that is now, for which we would like to have a pedagogical peace, is not all good. And it's probably also necessary to open a window a little bit and also to let parents know, apart from teachers, what kind of opinion someone else might have, I don't know, psychologists or something like that, even doctors might have, what happens to children in these stressful, one-time final checks. I hope you understood what I was going to say in all this, that it's not necessary now to replicate the crosses, which is not my purpose either, but it was just to remind you that it's not all that black and white, but that there's probably a rainbow here. And even when it comes to attitudes and children, it is necessary to take this rainbow into account and that some children may also have slightly different views, especially those of parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, then Mr. Germich, then Mr. Moge. I personally apologize to you. My understanding of the word replica is far from what is now happening here, this is a controversy, this is a controversy, and I think that in the rules of procedure of such forms of debate at the time of the individual amendment, the composer in the original form did not have in mind when he wrote it down. I respectfully ask these three more, because there are debaters waiting to give their opinion on the amendment. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I repeat to Mrs Patrati, which I do not agree with. This is not true that we will get the quality and quantity of knowledge by having it in Article 8: at the end of the third period, it is mandatory for all students to be checked. Mrs Tratratova will probably also agree with me that we will acquire quality through quality curricula, with quality textbooks, teacher training, with active methods and forms of work that will encourage the thinking of students. My second replica is to Mr. Mohet. It does not seem right to give lessons to those who have tabled or are discussing today. In view of the fact that the Government has tabled a law amending the Law on Primary Schools 22.2. and 8.5. have also tabled amendments to its own law, allow others to have the right to invest and to debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I don't think it's necessary for them to be taught what anyone can and can't do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I agree, Mr Petan, that it is very time-consuming and also substantively unproductive to lead the controversy here. However, I would like to complement your implementation. Why? The transition is also now possible. And as tragic as you are now to imagine that someone with a result on this check is heading for a certain career path, I don't think you know the school system very well. There is no school, no principal who would not help those students, students who want to change programs at the time of education, or on the basis of success or on the basis of less success. And, of course, this transition is also possible further. Of course, the decision after primary school is very, very important, both for the child and for the parents. And if we postpone this decision, we simply leave it with the awareness that on the other hand we are facing increased rashes - a rash that we would like to reduce student failure. And if we take it without graduation to the end of high school, that means they'll be accepted to the college exam. And if you ask me, I'm more in favour of finishing high school education with one exam than making a transition. As principal, I myself have followed the renovations and curricula of the primary school as closely as possible to ensure that the transition from primary to secondary school is as easy as possible. This transition is not easy. And of course, these instruments, which are installed here, help make this decision significantly easier.When I talked about peace, Mr Petan, I only talked about the fact that the school system cannot make sudden decisions from one direction to the other. That's what I'm talking about. But if I'm talking about the school system inside it, it's very stormy. Because if you are monitoring how many innovative development projects there are in education, all sorts of things, I have to say that this is one of the systems that we also know in Europe, that it is one that provides very high-quality knowledge at the end of education.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. With all due respect to you and to this esteemed assembly, I will talk about what we should be talking about in addressing this amendment. My colleague Rudy Petan may have misinterpreted me. I didn't say that for the white book, but I was saying that what was put here in the white book was also quoted by the articles. And if we adopt this amendment, this law in this sense is being dispersed. However, I think that we who propose these things, which we accept, have a good professional "support", we have a good salary, and we have a moral obligation to do our work professionally. That's all I was talking about. Dear President, a piece of procedural and I will stop immediately, I am one of the shortest debaters. This is not a general discussion and please stop those who at this point, although they had unlimited time to speak, direct them to make a decision whether to support the amendment or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We've got two more debaters. Mr. Petan. Replica to whom? Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I hope we get along just fine. I would like to quote one article in the current Rules of Procedure, because we are now going about whether we are talking about what is the subject of this or not. That's all I want to explain, and I'm gonna finish right now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	The procedural proposal is a proposal on what? [[...]] The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	No, no, no. Here's what I'm gonna say. Please, if you'll just let me say it to the end. The procedural proposal is that they have all warned that we did not discuss - or at least what was meant for me, I speak for myself now, for others I leave alone - that we did not discuss with the content that it was wrong. I think this is a procedural proposal and I say that everything was fine with the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask those who have such concerns to read the Rules of Procedure first. I'll read it now. Just one article. "If a Member requests a word to draw attention to a mistake or correction of a statement which he considers to be incorrect and caused a misunderstanding or a specific explanation is necessary, the President shall give him the word immediately". For me, what was supposed to be like a replica explained because it was the wrong line for me. Therefore, all warnings were unnecessary in this respect. Madam President, I am not reading anything to you, because this has come from the groups of Members, I am simply saying that this has been unnecessary and that we will avoid this in the future. That's my procedural proposal. To avoid it in the future. It does not need to be voted on, but it was a procedural proposal, correctly with the Rules of Procedure. But I also talked about the content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We've got two more debaters. Mr Bozič gave up the debate, Mr Gaber, and then also cancelled the debate. [[...]] Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	Respectable. I would like to discuss very briefly the issue of Article 8 or the amendment concerning external knowledge verification. I'm not a teacher, I'm not a teacher, but I have quite a few life experiences in this area. I must say that this is not a simple question and that is probably why this is causing so much debate, replicas and different opinions. As far as external verification is concerned in terms of the desired "feedback" that the education actually gets an answer about its success in the process, both the system and the individual teacher, in order to actually find out where we are, I certainly support such external verification. Because some way, some approach to system verification, the efficiency of the system is needed, even in health care we know it and we want to establish it, so we introduce new quality assurance, precisely for the purpose of checking the system and the effectiveness of the system. However, as far as the results are concerned, which then make a fatal decision about the child’s future life course, I feel that this is a real problem. Look, a few months ago, a study of students and their success in the first and second and third years was carried out at the medical school, which is called preclinical subjects, and their graduation success. I'm sorry, no correlation has been established. No correlation. If I tell you, when I look at my colleagues, my doctors, in my age, it is said from my peers, and compare with the quality of the individual work, by how good the doctor is, how desirable, how quality in terms of professional and human view, I see no correlation between positive knowledge, the quantitative extent of knowledge in high school and the current professional performance. Why am I saying this? Due to the fact that external checks, including on the basis of graduation, are used as the only key to entering and transferring to college and, of course, similar from primary to secondary school, then this system is unfair and harmful. Guilty to an individual who may have done many other things in high school, which may or may not have been harmful from the point of view of quantitative knowledge, but on the side of life positive, and may not have had such a "zicledra" as some girls and similarly closed ways, all the ways to a very desirable college. And I think that this is also harmful for our national intellectual "pool", which in fact means the starting point of our success in the years to come, very harmful, because we really do appear to be receiving negative selection in individual colleges, from feminisation of certain professions, as already mentioned, to negative selection in terms of the ability to acquire quantitative knowledge and exclude people who may be slightly more capable of innovative things and entrepreneurial approaches. That is why I say that if I were a teacher, I would address this question, because I think that the system currently in force is worse than the admission exam system. For the verification of the knowledge that is being gathered, and the scoring that is being accumulated over the years, can be fatal for a young man, even if he finds at the age of eight that he may have broken it, or after graduation he finds that he has broken it, there is no chance of any more or at least normal transition, even if he takes a bite if he comes to a smart and similar point, but he has met some of the conditions that he once gave the acceptable exam. And here I appeal to the Minister to try to correct this error that we have made by making external knowledge checks the only key and only sieve of transition where there are limited study places, and to actually identify and find some more viable ways of sowing and creating criteria that will be more fair to young people and to the people more quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek wishes to replicate Mr Germić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Mr Germič is an extremely important debate on the transition from high school to higher school, but this is in relation to primary school, and Mr Cukjat has touched on this. Mr Germič has committed himself to the fact that external graduation is a significantly better instrument than qualification for the university as an admission exam or that the university itself is making a selection of appropriateness. I am surprised that Mr Germič is also a chemist who does not know the disastrous consequences of this in the field of chemistry. I hope he also has a lot of colleagues at chemical universities in Maribor and Ljubljana. I don't know one who would say that this has brought about positive changes. The quality of chemistry has fallen terribly. It is terrible because, at some point in the course of this qualification, it has become shameful if a high school student fails to decide either for law or for economics or for medicine. When we studied Wait, Mr. Germič talked about it, it was, you didn't warn him. [[...]] Excuse me. And look, we need to be aware of this and the bad consequences. Professors from the Faculty of Law explained to me how serious the consequences would be for the Slovenian economy and for the Slovenian administration. Because the law school was completely feminized. And of course it makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Mr Jerovšek, here you are repeating yourself, we have already heard this. Actually, it's been three times.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	You didn't stop Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	We've heard this before today, that our country is feminizing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	I'm sorry. I have to replicate his view. I have the right. Look, these are very negative consequences, and I hope that Madam Minister is finally prepared to listen to all these professional, not mine, but to the arguments of professors in individual colleges. Look, students need to figure out which way they're going after second grade. We all have to admit that at the time, everyone else, and especially the boys, they didn't mature as individuals. And that's extremely problematic because they haven't matured and yet they don't know exactly what they want in life. Then their options are closed and limited. She used to do that -- see, let me give you an example -- she had her own high school when she had picked up children for 14 years when her parents wanted her to become priests. He doesn't do that today, he sends them to regular schools, regular high school to decide for themselves. Today’s students do not decide freely because the school system takes them to a certain school. And I tell you, for a large part of the students of extremely promising people, there is a college closed. Because they weren't mature enough at the time. Today, some of the most respected lawyers or the most respected doctors, doctors, would not have come to this university by any means. And that's why it's a loss to the National Corps. And we're pleading for something to be done here. That you are aware that we need experts to develop new products that will be recognised. That's not how we come to this. This is how we go down the spiral. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I think I can close the debate on the amendment to Article 8. Dear colleagues and colleagues who are in the vicinity, I respectfully ask them to join us because we are moving on to a decision. Procedural proposal, Mr. Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	I've already held my hand up a little before, but you didn't see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	I don't know if I can go to the debate. Yeah. I'm sorry, yes. Obviously, we've raised a lot of dust in this amendment, or this wasn't our intention, but given this situation as it is now, obviously something is wrong, if it isn't, there wouldn't be so many comments. We're not against this law, we just wanted to attach something, maybe things are a little bit different. But I'm going to say very briefly, because I can see that a break is approaching -- the differentiation of children with a dot system, which until this year's entry into force, is not the most appropriate way to determine the criteria for enrolment of students in high school. [[...]] It is true that between 1994 and 1997, 47, 49,7 and 47,1 were on the limit, but this year, in 2000 and 2001 this number was 27,7 % of the students who needed entry points. These data show that the entry can be arranged in a slightly different way. The final examination of knowledge is only necessary for pupils who continue to be enrolled in programmes in secondary schools where fewer places are offered than the ones applied for; however, every year they are fewer, and in a few years they will probably be unnecessary. The number of children is falling and this trend will continue. The choice of children is expected to take place in the longer term and less stressful, in particular as objectively as possible. Example: Tests on psychophysical skills, artistic talent and special skills needed to successfully study at a particular high school should be prepared by the school in cooperation with schools with the same programme, in order to avoid the single elite high school, which now appears as a trend in elite high schools. The acceptance examinations already carried out between 1989 and 1991 led to the elitation of secondary schools, which would have been eliminated by uniting the examinations under the same programme. According to predictions, such students will be slightly less likely to pass the exams. There will be more and more students who will want to come to the high school program. Therefore, it is pointless to burden students with mandatory checks if they do not need them to enter [[Points]] . However, if a child wants to compare his or her knowledge, he or she may choose one, two or all three subjects for verification. By the way, what's going on? Someone who wants to, I don't know, be a hairdresser, be a mechanic, why does he have the need to perform exams, or isn't it enough to succeed in elementary school? He probably doesn't have any ambition to continue his study or anything else. It also saddens me - here you are all talking about graduation, at the third summit on graduation a few months ago I did not see almost any of these Members sitting here, two or three of them might have been. [[The contract from the bench.]] Yes, because I said two or three - I apologize to Mr Janša and Mrs Patrati. Perhaps it would be good if you were there and listened to the comments of teachers, young teachers, I would say, not the elderly who are now facing these problems at the graduation. And there is something else for the Member who spoke earlier about playing with taxpayers' money - I will be speechless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled in Article 8 by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 17 to 32. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the amendment to Article 8 has not been adopted. We decide on Article 8 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 13. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We're going back to the amendment review. The amendment tabled on the first page of the review, which is an amendment to Article 11, is irrelevant, as in the reduced procedure for the adoption of the law amendments can only be tabled in the article of amendments and the amendment of the bill. We are therefore moving on to a debate and decision on Article 18 and the Government's amendment to this article, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 18 has been amended. We have discussed the amendments tabled and are moving on to the discussion on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 5 and 18 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Because no, we are moving on to making a full decision on the law. Before that, I ask the secretariat, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 198, if it may be inconsistent with the amendments adopted? It's not. Thank you very much. We are therefore voting on the law as a whole. Let's vote. There are 52 Members and Members of Parliament. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. In relation to this law, the Committee also tabled a proposal for a decision. To propose to the National Assembly that the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs be empowered to carry out editorial corrections to Articles 9, 10, 12 and 14 in accordance with the findings of its opinion of 23.4.2001. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision on the working body? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GYMNAZI LAW, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	He's the chairman. I'll be very brief. The Committee also adopted this law without general discussion. He agreed to a reduced procedure, which we have already accepted. I would only ask you what you have already received so that I would not tire of you in the Committee's report to support the Committee's amendment to Article 3, which is much more consistent than what the Government has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Franz Pukšič, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you, President, for your word. As the chairman of the committee said, there was a little back-to-back on the committee, maybe a month ago, we were dealing with this issue. This means the Basic School Act, the High Schools Act and the Financing and Education Act, the so-called ZOFI. At the same time as the amendments' proponents, we also discussed thoroughly, including in the Chamber of the National Assembly. Since those three laws have fallen, some of our proposed laws have also been summarized in the proposal for government laws, so that we are actually happy about this. Our efforts were not meaningless, so perhaps there was not so much debate on the committee at the time. The objectives of these amendments to the Law on High Schools are to introduce additional opportunities for secondary technical and professional schools, to implement the first two years of vocational school if they have the appropriate staff and material conditions to do so. That's, I'll say, good. The second objective of this law is to introduce the possibility that successful students from secondary technical and vocational schools will join the vocational school programme after the completion of other years without differential examinations. That's a good goal, too. However, it would be better if what we had already proposed from the Social Democratic Party in the first set of school legislation were adopted. I will only mention a few concerns that may give a bit of breadth in the amendments to this law on high school, and perhaps even for someone to think about, or there will be another element that, with the amendment, could possibly change the law on high school, which introduces some good changes, make the amendment even more qualitative.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Mr Pukšič, allow me, given that you've announced a longer debate, to interrupt you just for a second. In our midst, we welcome the President of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Sead Avdic, with a delegation. Welcome aboard, sir. [[Let's hear it.]] Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The 1996 High Schools Act abolished the possibility of preparing students for graduation and thus for further studies at the university. Under this law, education is provided only in the framework of high school and vocational schools, allowing for the continuation of education in higher education after the graduation. Thus, the status of professionally recognised and established secondary technical and vocational schools that allowed students to decide only after the second year, or to study at the university, was substantially changed, either by opting for a graduation or a final examination and, of course, for employment or further education in higher education. Since the new Law on High Schools requires all young people to decide on a further vocational or educational path at the end of primary school, this will lead to an increase in social differentiation in enrolment in high school and vocational school. Some parents of children who are very successful in primary school focus on secondary technical and professional schools because they do not yet know whether they will be able to spend materially on further education. This is a problem which, unfortunately, is not yet resolved in our country.I hope that with the entry of a party of young people into parliamentary democracy something more will be done in this area. There are no results yet. Therefore, these parents will make a new decision mainly for secondary technical and professional schools that are not preparing for graduation. So young people from weaker social strata will be reduced in order to obtain university education. And that's not good. The envisaged graduation course, which will allow candidates with completed technical and vocational training for graduation, will not be able to significantly reduce the increased social differentiation as it will require an additional year of schooling. In addition, the number of schools implementing high school programmes will be reduced. Vocational high school will not be established in all technical and vocational secondary schools that have run a graduation so far, which will encourage education for young people from smaller places who will decide on high school programmes. This should be borne in mind. The decline in enrolment in the technical and natural direction of university study is, in any event, an extremely pressing problem of Slovenian education and further social economic development. If high school students had the opportunity to opt for graduation after two years of secondary technical and vocational education without differential examinations, this would also increase their interest in technical and scientific university studies. This is the consideration I was talking about at the outset of this National Assembly, whether it is appropriate to consider with what amendment this amendment to the Law on High Schools should be upgraded. The strict separation between high school education only for the continuation of university studies and other four-year secondary schools is questionable both from a professional point of view and from an international point of view. According to data on educational trends in developed European countries, professional decisions are carried over as late as possible and general programmes are in place allowing open opportunities for further education and the career path of young people. Such postponement of professional decisions is essential due to accelerated technological, economic and social development, which leads to more frequent changes in professions and prevents more detailed planning of the career path of individuals. This is a few of our concerns and gives way to think to you, honourable Members and Members, in order to build up certain things. However, the social structure in our country, as we well know, Members and Members must be aware of this even more when we are talking about the young generation and so much more, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we speak of the capabilities of this young generation, that at every end of our country, our countries have the same opportunities all of us, regardless of their status points. You know this is not the case, so I urge you to think seriously about this, especially those who have scissors and linen in your hands this time. This is Members and Members of the Coalition, by the opposition you will have the support and reputation of this national assembly in our country, among citizens and citizens, and especially among young people, it will certainly increase if we do something in this area so that we do not just talk at times, about informing, etc. Let us give all young people equal starting opportunities. They also have this right under our Slovenian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Greetings to all guests, all present from the government and other colleagues and colleagues. The New Slovenia Group supports amendments and supplements to the Law on High Schools. By amending Article 7 of the Law on High Schools, we are expanding the possibility of implementing a high school programme. We thus give the opportunity to bring high schools closer to students mainly in border and demographically threatened areas. A greater emphasis on the success of the third triad student in taking into account the criteria for enrolment in schools with limited enrolment seems to be placed on us. We will also support the amendment of the committee accompanying Article 47 of the Law on High Schools, as this ensures the legal arrangements for the transitional period until the completion of the nine-year programme. I would also take this opportunity to point out that there is still a considerable amount of legal uncertainty in the field of school legislation that needs to be addressed. More opportunities should also be given to private initiatives. We are committed to the diversity of approaches and knowledge-sharing, which would also create greater competitiveness in the school area. This is certainly not negligible; the quality of schools could thus be increased. As for the present novel, our Group of Members, together with the amendments, will support it. However, we also agree with the reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law. From experience, let us just say that this is actually a proposal that brings about three major changes. These were also needed in practice, which was also seen in the area from which I come alone. It is a matter of extending the possibility of organisational or status forms for the implementation of the high school programme, in order to establish additional criteria for the selection of candidates for entry into the initial year of high school and amending the criteria for the selection of candidates for admission to the 1st year in the transitional period. Please allow me to speak to you about the two amendments that have been tabled. We will also support in the Slovenian National Party the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport to Article 3(1). Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. As no written applications have been received, the discussion of the possible debater is limited to 5 minutes. I ask you kindly that, given that we are considering three articles here as a short process, we can also touch on these three articles in our debates, because it is not possible in the short-term procedure to extend the debates, nor our possible other proposals to other parts of the law, since it is not the subject of this procedure. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, given that the law has only four articles to deal with all the articles and amendments to Article 3, in particular. We will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments, of 29.6.2001, with this warning that the second amendment to Article 3 has been withdrawn. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles. First, I shall put to the debate and decision Article 1. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we decide and are in the vicinity, I ask you kindly to join us. We therefore decide on Article 1. We're voting. There are 37 of us present. Your Honor! Half an hour's work ahead of us until noon break. I think it is right for the government representatives and ourselves to conclude, given that we have concluded the debate on the law on high school, which has only four articles, and that we could also decide on it in force. Therefore, I respectfully ask you to join us in order to end the vote on this law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to vote on Article 1 on the basis of the conclusion that we were inconclusive at the time of the first vote, for the second time immediately after the first vote. We therefore vote on Article 1. Let's vote! Unfortunately, the second vote was not successful either. We'll be out of work in 10 minutes. At 12.36 we will continue and vote on Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Colleagues and colleagues who are in the vicinity, I ask you to join us, because in a few seconds we will have a third vote on Article 1. Your Honor! This is the third time we have voted on Article 1. In view of the fact that we have done the counting manually, I ask you politely to allow a valid vote on Article 1 by pressing one of the buttons. We vote on Article 1. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on Article 2. There are 56 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We're moving on to the amendment review. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to Article 3, which is set out in order number 1, of which the Committee is the proposer, and Article 3, as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 3 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4, which regulates the validity of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that only the amendment to Article 3 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified candidates want to table an amendment, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Before that, I'm asking the secretariat if there's been any disagreement? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. So we decide the law in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his cooperation, including the representatives of the secretariat. We're moving on to 35. Agenda item - First draft of the National Security Programme for Natural and Other Accidents. Because we haven't got a government representative yet. He's coming. [[...]] The proposal for a national programme was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] We'll wait a minute. The government's opinion will be presented to us by the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Miran Bogataj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Vice President, respectable choir, nice greeting! The proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters is based on the law on protection against natural and other disasters and on the law on protection against fire. He's ready for a period of six years. This is the period after which similar programmes are also being prepared in the Western world. In its preparation, we have taken into account the following in particular. Firstly, after independence, we have established a system of protection against natural and other disasters as an organisational, normative and functionally unified and important subsystem of the entire national security system. Secondly, the system is divided into tasks of national competence and tasks of national competence, with the burden of responsibility in the local community. Thirdly, the system must respond to all types and intensity of accidents, from those everyday to those which are catastrophic. Therefore, in recent years a number of expert and scientific assessments of the threat to Slovenian space have been made, which also affected the late preparation of the national programme proposal. Fourthly, the basic objective of this programme is to reduce the number of accidents or to reduce their consequences and to effectively implement protection and resolution if an accident occurs. And fifthly, given the complexity of the entire system of protection against natural and other disasters, we have also taken into account national programmes in other areas, which is particularly relevant in the area of prevention. We have also taken into account guidelines from international documents, such as Agenda 21, the Rio meeting, the UN strategy for a safer world in the 21st century and so on. The programme proposal also takes into account the recommendations of the Council on Environmental and Environmental Protection and Protection at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. We have aligned the programme proposal with all professional institutions in Slovenia, as well as with NGOs, such as firefighting and the like. In preparing the proposal we sought its substantive integrity, so at first glance its structure deviates from what is laid down in the Fire Protection Act or in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. Thus, the findings of the risk assessment consist of an indication of natural and other particularities, particularly sensitive areas and threats, i.e. chapter two, third, fourth and fifth. The proposal for this programme is the first one to combine in one place all kinds of threats and accidents that can happen in our country. The state of protection is partly defined in chapter four and in part in chapter five. Any extract from the hazard assessment shall, as a rule, also be completed by an assessment of the stand and the starting point for further development. Chapter 6 assesses the state or general readiness of prevention, protection measures as well as the protection, rescue and assistance forces. An assessment of the baseline for further development is also provided. Chapter 7 sets out the basic objectives of guidance and tasks. Given the complexity of the whole system, the least processed area of funding is, in particular, because prevention is financed across different resources, across different areas and given that one part is financed by the State and the other part by local communities. In line with the debate on the parental committee, however, we will try to prepare a programme for the second reading of this part, the real area of funding will be more developed, and it will also take into account the actual needs and capabilities of this country. We will also include the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. We will also take into account the opinion of your secretariat on legislation in the preparation of the programme and distribute its content as defined primarily in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. Finally, given that you have also adopted a resolution on the strategy of the national security system of the Republic of Slovenia at this meeting, we will complement it in the preparation of the next treatment programme, as appropriate, in the light of the resolution. The government intends and plans to adopt the doctrine of protection, rescue and assistance by the end of this year. This is a doctrinal document which will allow for the adoption of constitutional and development documents in this area. We suggest that you support the proposal of the programme, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The proposal for a national programme was considered by the Defence Committee as the parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a national programme. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! At its meeting, the Committee considered a proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. Since you've also received written material, I wouldn't read it all. I would point out that the debate was quite a lively one, some of which was mentioned by Mr Richtaj. Perhaps you would read only the conclusions we have taken after a lengthy discussion: "1. The proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, first considered, is an appropriate basis for the preparation of a national programme for second treatment. 2. When preparing a proposal for a national programme for second reading, the proposer should take into account the following views: - harmonise the content and addresses of individual chapters of the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters with the law on protection against natural and other disasters, - the text of the chapter of the "recognition from hazard assessments" should take into account, in particular, the essential findings of the risk assessment, - complete the text of the national programme by carefully analysing the expected costs and benefits, - taking into account the comments and opinions of the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs - and takes into account the opinion of the National Programme submitted by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. Mr Rudolf Petan spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party of Slovenia; then on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! We have a saying that says the accident never rests. Regrettably, it is a proverb that is confirmed over and over and over again every day, whether it is a matter of areas where a person indirectly has no influence or because of a man’s willful, conscious action against the laws of nature, due to sounding after progress, regardless of the consequences. The national programme wants and needs to find answers to undesirable phenomena that are released in nature that cannot be affected, or to the consequences of the interaction between both factors, nature and man. But the approach must be comprehensive, from the review of our natural data, the assessment of threats, the situation in us. [[the situation in question is considered to be leaky.]] the definition of the level of protection, the basic objectives and the means of carrying out the tasks which are prescribed, preventive measures to prevent or mitigate the consequences, the organisation of protection, rescue and assistance, of course also education and, last but not least, the financing in the broadest sense of the programme of protection against natural and other disasters. If I've started with a saying, maybe I'll keep going. The second proverb, however, says that it is better to prevent than to treat. And if anywhere, then in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, this proverb is particularly true. This means that all sources and levels of risk should be well-known and that preventive and operational implementation measures should be properly organised in the event of accidents. We all know that natural disasters, especially those of nature, such as earthquakes, floods, reptiles, droughts, floods, epidemics, cannot be prevented because nature cannot be ordered. However, it is necessary to ensure, at national level, a system that can, in an effective manner, lay down and remedy the consequences of these disasters as soon as possible. Slovenia has a relatively good system of protection and rescue, which is also relatively effective, and unfortunately in our country this system is often tested. If I mention only intervention in traffic accidents, fires, floods, reptiles, if I mention only this last, really big one under Mangart, earthquakes like in Posoča, mine accidents and the like. A good, efficient and flexible system is not free. It has to be acknowledged that the system in question is largely based on volunteerism. Nevertheless, interventions require expensive equipment that becomes more demanding and more expensive every day and requires more knowledge every day, which requires education. The system is financed from the budget of the State, the budgets of the municipalities, fire charges, insurance premiums, funds from economic operators, institutions and, of course, voluntary contributions. In 1999, funds for the entire system amounted to about 6 billion tolars, just for fire protection 4 billion. In 1999, these funds accounted for approximately 4 and a half percent of all the Ministry of Defence funds, which is the Ministry of the Interior. This year, only 4.21 percent is foreseen, which is incomprehensible. It is necessary to take into account the fact that the last few years have been in major disasters, I think, above all, the Sootje and the floods in the Upper Savina Valley, and a huge amount of equipment has been engaged and used to replace it with a new one. This would mean that funds should be increased or maintained at least at the same level. This is where budget resources are mainly meant. In the case of the Social Democratic Party, we believe that speculation with a statistical model is in the near future that the probability of natural disasters will be lower, that they are unrealistic and irresponsible. It is likely that only supernatural forces can be believed or be begged not to be more serious. Statistics say that if more natural disasters happen once together, then it is likely that this will not happen in a longer period. And that's what this meant. Of course, we want that to be true and that natural disasters would not, of course, be or that there would be significantly fewer, but unfortunately, nature is unpredictable and many predictions and also statistics of failure. It would therefore be necessary to provide more resources to compensate for the equipment used. On the other hand, it should be stressed that it is necessary to provide equipment for the protection system against natural and other disasters under more favourable conditions, especially where voluntary contributions are involved. Only in this way will we be able to maintain the system efficiently and operationally. The Social Democratic Party will support the national programme as well as all solutions that will preserve and improve the system of protection against natural and other disasters in operational and efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable National Assembly! The proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters is all the more welcome and, according to its contents, fresh after all the accidents that we have heard in the previous colleague's speech. In particular, I have been sensitive to some of the elements of this programme, or I have given more attention to it because of the mining accident we experienced in Zasavje this year. In the national programme, it seems to me, in the introductory part of point 1, a particularly important ninth paragraph, identifying precisely who is primary and who is secondaryly responsible for disaster prevention in their area. These precise descriptions will certainly be welcome in the further implementation of the national disaster protection programme. Although in section 5.2.1. - Accidents in mines, statistics speak for the good of the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately it turns out that some of the elements listed in this part are certainly not what they should be. The national programme is linked to Chapter 5.2.1 in Chapter 6.11. - Protection, rescue and rescue forces, otherwise precisely defined, who are those who care about protection, rescue and assistance. There is also a strong emphasis on local communities as well. However, as public lifesaving services, 5 such services are organized or listed. Although I think that I may not be doing business properly at this time, it seems to me that in the next reading it will be possible to think carefully that, even at the time when we close the mines, as the sixth public rescue service in a minimum form, we would also be able to organise a resolution service that would specialize in mine resolution. And finally. The last paragraph of Chapter 6.14 is also very important. - Insurance against risks, which means that the burden of repairing damage and eliminating other consequences of major accidents becomes so great that it requires the participation of all affected parties, insured natural and legal persons, basic insurers and so on. It goes on to say that the State should act primarily as the last insurer in the event of extremely major accidents. I agree that we cannot impose everything on the burden of the state. I also agree that in implementing this national programme we will have to pay very close attention to the first part of this last paragraph, i.e. insurance, insurance, reinsurance and so on. This time, too, in the first reading, I would like to draw attention to the consistent implementation of the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters once the legislative procedure has been completed. We welcome the establishment of this proposal for a national programme and will certainly actively support it by participating in another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Just a short notice before the afternoon break. In the afternoon's follow-up session, we will first complete the closed agenda item and proceed with the opinions of the parliamentary groups. We will then discuss and vote on the proposal to postpone the 11th item to the next meeting and then move on to the consideration of the adjourned 5th item of the agenda and on the orderly basis. Thank you so much and have a good run!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Fellow Members and fellow Members, we continue with the adjourned 35th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a national programme to protect against natural and other disasters. Additional justifications for the continuation of the 7th session of 5.7.2001 are: Dorian Marshič for all day, Alexander Merlo for all day, Richard Beuermann for all day, Cyril Pucko for all day and Villa Trofenik for the start of the afternoon session. I ask Members and Members to place their cards and press the button because we will determine the presence at the meeting. I've calculated that there are more of us in the hall, so I'm asking for proper attention. We're rediscovering the presence. I'm sorry, some of you have shown me that they didn't press the right button. I'll wait a few more minutes. Once again, I ask Members and Members, for the first time, to settle the card issue, and for the second time to press the "quorum" button. We are detecting the presence and please press the appropriate button. Please. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have counted how many of us are in the hall, but of course I must find that there are more of us. We'll resume in 10 minutes. 14.40, sorry 14.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Fellow Members and fellow Members, please calm down and take our seats. This is the third time we've identified the concoction. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 57 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and can proceed with the work. We're looking at the 35th item of the agenda, as I said. On behalf of New Slovenia, Mr Ivan Mamić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! The things we've heard today, I don't want to repeat. We know that the problems in Slovenia and that Slovenia is exposed to all these natural and other disasters, which also often happen. Especially in recent times, they are reptiles that we are not talking about mountain snowflake winters and so on. Earthquakes are also a common phenomenon, such as in Posoča, and elsewhere, and so on. In all these events, accidents, I think the most exposed fire brigades are because they are trained boys who are always available to help with all these actions, all the accidents. That's why I want to say something about firefighting. The last time we adopted amendments to the VAT law, that firefighters would be exempt or that instead of 19 only 8%, it didn't go through. So I'm going to repeat some of the things I said back then. As I am aware of the work of firefighters, I think the problem is obsolete everywhere, as I have heard from other colleagues who have talked about it. But I do know that in the Vipavska Valley, where I come from, especially in Vipava and Podnanos, there is a huge problem when there is a fire. In fact, the fire in the Vipavska Valley is not really that common, but Kras, who is in the immediate geographical vicinity, is threatened and the nearest units must come to help. The Vipava Valley is close to Crassus, we know it well, but according to the configuration of the terrain and the bad road for which I stand for infrastructure, and the extended equipment, intervention is not as effective as it could have been if conditions were different. So let's say it takes half an hour and more time when a factory is burning, it's a huge time, it's lost, instead of this time being shorter, efficiency would normally be greater. If we look at Rapporteur No. 95, we see that in Primorska these fire brigades are rarer than elsewhere. This is another proof that these fire brigades need to be heard a little bit more. The law envisaged, I think it is well prepared, professional and our parliamentary group will support it. I think that a little more attention should be given to this Vipavska Valley, not because I am a patriot, but I speak correctly from experience, because I was also a member of the civil protection headquarters for many years in the Ajdov municipality and we were together with Vipava, so I know the problems and I know that gro work was just firefighters. Back then, they were "amarals" to have bad equipment, and now they've got so much worse equipment. I was once invited to see what equipment they had. They asked me if I could talk about the fire department. If it's just the Vipavska Valley that's problematic, then I hope there's no problem. And thank God that's true. But if the same problem is across Slovenia, then things should be a little more complex. If I speak as Primorec, we know that there are also reptiles, that I am not talking about Log under Mangart, which is, only practice has shown that interventions were not as effective as they should actually be. Something has to be done on this. Well, that crawl in Logo under Mangart was also so suddenly and at night, and so on, it was not expected and normal that it could not be done so effectively. But there are reptiles elsewhere, and locusts are also known to move every day for a few inches and not stop. In such cases the work is much easier, but it is continuous; all of a sudden it can move so rapidly that a few houses will be dipped away, but I hope it will not happen because the boys are ready. However, I am talking about cases that are not expected, so things should still be a little better or that they would somehow agree with what we are taking today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The text is by MEP Bozič, Slovenian People's Party + SKD. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Friends and colleagues, hello! Our Group of Members will support the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. Remember, over the last five years, as long as we're sitting in these benches, we've passed quite a few intervention laws. Every time a natural or serious accident occurs in Slovenia, we need to adopt a new intervention law, which we do not yet have. Yesterday we spoke and also passed a law amending the Act on the Earthquake Recovery and Development of Suča, the consequences of the 1998 earthquake. In the Parliament of the previous reference, we have adopted a law on the elimination of damage by floods, by flood, by thirst, by colds, by droughts We have not yet had a law on fires, but on reptiles, on landslides. [[...]] So, all of this tickles us in this little country of ours, small but beautiful. It is therefore right that we have a national programme, how to prepare and do what the state should do, that major disasters do not occur, and, of course, great harm, because all natural and other disasters cause great harm to the people and to the country. The only thing that bothers us is that we are not strong enough to insist that insurance should be included in a good programme. In fact, it is necessary to know that elsewhere in the world we would be whistled to the detriment of anyone or someone who has suffered it never thought that he or she would have had his property secured by the insurance company. I think that in the second reading we will also get more answers about how insurance companies should participate in the national programme, because everything else, and that we will have everything paid from the country alone, is hard to expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group that would like to perform? He does. DeSUS Group, Ambassador Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. This strategy, or the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, has already been addressed on the appropriate parent body, where we have paid more attention and have been able to get a better understanding of its content. We believe that the programme is extremely wide-ranging, that it is good to cover all areas relating to our potential threat by natural and other disasters. I particularly liked them, if you say so, well described all features of Slovenian space, our geographical and geological characteristics, the characteristics of climate, weather conditions and consequences, which can also occur from these natural forces. An analysis of possible other accidents, which are greatly influenced by man, is also particularly processable and should be of particular interest to us, since we can have the greatest possible impact on the minor consequences of these disasters by our own actions. The protection of our country's natural and cultural heritage is worth the attention. What threatens us all from the point of view of nature and where it is described in the chapter dealing with floods of rivers and seas, earthquakes, earth reptiles, implants, snowstorms and the like, so that we do not read and repeat everything. While it is impossible to defend themselves against these phenomena, we can mitigate them with knowledge, ability, equipment and prevent the victims or reduce the consequences themselves in material form. We could be more able to resist - and also successfully so far - the diseases of forests that threaten our wealth, epidemics of infectious diseases of humans and animals and infectious diseases. Fortunately, in recent years these phenomena have not been much. We may be concerned about technical accidents in mines where, unfortunately, we often record fatalities in factories, that we are not talking about the possibility of an accident at a nuclear power plant and elsewhere where nuclear and other technologies are used. Surely we are concerned about traffic accidents, especially on the roads, less on the railways. We're losing a lot of lives here every year. He's been hurt a lot. There are many people with disabilities who are due to traffic accidents, which costs our society immensely much. However, apart from the laws and certain measures taken by the police and others, we are not yet in favour of this issue. It seems that the most important thing will be to raise our people, our people, especially young people, who are gradually entering the market. As we are prepared against the threat, the strategy is quite well worked out: we have a general organisation, we have an appropriate legislation to adapt to; we have professional institutions involved in research and development of this science; we have the power to protect and rescue which we still need to properly organise, train, finance their equipment - I mean, in every way, in all areas: from mountain rescuers, caves, rescue from water, firefighting and other services operating in this area. This programme also covers all of this and needs to be adopted. Following the adoption of this programme, of course, I am still involved in the actions outlined in the strategy, the necessary adaptation of legislation, the necessary implementing acts and, of course, the necessary money or resources needed to finance what is still needed in this system of protection and resolution in order to be able to defend these threats. We will support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group that would like to perform? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. A Member of the Magi informed the debate in writing. A visor. I limit the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to 5 minutes. There's a MEP with a word. A visor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. A nice greeting to the representatives of the government and to this council. In view of this national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, I would like to assess that it is quite an important part of this programme aimed at analysing, organising and similar issues, very little - and this is also the core and incentive for my discussion - and measures or how to approach problems in many areas and, of course, how to apply or reduce the negative consequences of these natural and other disasters. In short, there is much talk here about the analysis that is needed, of course, but not enough about how to deal with the situation or how to reduce these problems. The very information that follows from the programme that, since 1996, budget allocations aimed at protecting against natural and other disasters have been constantly falling since 1996 shows that one thing we say and analyse is our willingness or willingness to approach these problems, particularly in a preventive sense. I would like to point out that from this programme it follows that funds from 6.6 per cent of the budget have fallen to 4.12 in the current year, 4.21 in the current year, which is a significant reduction. I am also referring to this debate that I had on Friday when we talked about firefighting and somehow about the proposal to reduce taxation in the procurement of fire protection and rescue equipment. And there's been a lot of talk here that it's just a partial approach to somehow restricting the possibility of a systemic solution to this problem. It is in such a national programme that we would expect guidance on how to systematically address this problem, whether our organisation of firefighting is okay, and it says in there that organisation is okay, that there is no need to reduce firefighting societies, in fact they need to be increased in some areas, and that cancer is a wound in financing it. I would expect the national programme to provide guidance on how to solve the financial problems of the fire operation and, for example, with a period of time, could also define how budgetary resources or any other means or any other measures should be taken to remedy the problems encountered in firefighting. It's not in here; if I didn't find it, I'd ask the government representatives to tell me where it says it. In short, I expected a response from this programme to the burning problem of firefighting in Slovenia, but I can't find it. Another important question, especially for the region from which I come, is Posavje, I think it is a defence against the tide. The tower is processed in the program. Such a national programme would have expected the proposed preventive measures to be either protective nets in certain areas, or somewhere it would have been found that there is no point in investing in prevention, either as missiles or as a protection against hailing by means of aeroplanes. I would like to see from this programme what we have to do in Slovenia to reduce the consequences of natural and other accidents, especially as I say, in the area of protection from hail. This would make it easier for many people to behave, especially economic operators and farmers involved in the activity - for example, in the municipality of Brežica and in other municipalities of Posav. During this year, fruit growers suffered enormous damage from the current and also from the cold. I must, unfortunately, find out from this programme that I do not see the way out, that I do not see the country's suggestion of what to do in the future - whether to let this matter go, whether we will organise certain preventive measures, and how to proceed. I would expect that from the national programme. As a third and similar example, I'm going to mention floods. In the Municipality of Brežica, we are particularly in the lower part of the Sava River, just at the Croatian border - actually this is not an accident anymore, because it is repeated every year and it is already a yearly phenomenon - to follow from such a programme how the state will take action at these events or what measures are to reduce the consequences of these, say, accidents. I do not get any answers from this national programme. By somehow proposing, in this general debate, that the Government seek answers to certain questions or measures, it is said, preventive measures, how, where, where, where does it make sense, where there is no point in investing in preventive measures, in the protection against natural disasters, and what these measures are. Because these measures may vary in different parts of Slovenia, depending on the exposure, depending on the frequency of events and the like. I believe that the result of such a national programme could also be a plan or a suggestion to the government to increase budgetary resources to protect against natural and other disasters; which is the optimal figure to ensure some minimum level of security. In addition, I stress that I am convinced that the annual damage left by these natural disasters in Slovenia is significantly higher than the means for prevention. Therefore, I think it would be right to obtain, within the framework of such a programme, the usefulness of investing in preventive measures in the light of the damage that these disasters have left behind over the years and, of course, considering what will happen in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I am putting to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which is: the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, the first reading, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a national programme for second reading. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let's vote, please! 49 Members and Members are present. For 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We vote, please, on the proposal for a position. We're voting! There are 48 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the positions drawn up by the mother's working body have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. As foretold, we are moving on to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Summer Plan for Development and Maintenance of Motorways for the Year 2001. Please, let's calm down. Today we received a letter from the President of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to the President of the National Assembly concerning the examination of that act. On the basis of this letter, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that this item of the agenda be transferred to the next meeting of the Assembly. At this meeting, the National Assembly will consider the Government's contribution of 21.6.2001, by which the Government has replaced the original submissions. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting the proposed decision to the vote. We're voting, please! We're voting! 52 Members and Members are present. It's 42 votes against 7. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the seven.]] I find that that decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. It's a day's work. I ask Members and Members to take a look at the amendments tabled to the proposal for a transport law in road transport, the swift procedure, the THIRD REFERENCE. We also received a consolidated text of the draft law for third reading prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone want a full word on the bill? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a debate on the amendments tabled. As I have already mentioned, we will hold a debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 5.7.2001. We're looking at Section 2. Anybody want to talk? And the amendment of the four groups of Members, that's quite a long amendment. Anybody want to talk? Please, Member Mamich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	I've got a number two where it says that the bus station has to have covered platforms. I don't know how many bus stations there are in Slovenia to have covered platforms. It seems to me that there must be a place where people are waiting and the platforms simply cannot be covered for practical reasons. What, are we gonna fix all the bus stations for this? I think it'd be right to fix that. I suggest we write instead of "must have covered platforms" it would be written "which has platforms" because the platform must be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Dear colleague! You probably know how the amendments are being tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	I know, I just didn't, I got that today and I didn't have time, I was dealing with other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? Please, Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. See, in view of what my fellow Member, Mamić, has found in this amendment, which has been tabled by four members of the group. We will vote against this amendment if it remains so. In fact, he reminded them of something that the proponents can fix. And since it's a quick procedure, they can either do it here or take 10 minutes and try to discuss it a little bit longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 2. Please, we're voting. 48 Members and Members present. 35 for, against 10. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was adopted. We're moving on to Article 3. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. We're voting, please. Even though there are more than 45 of us in the Chamber, we were not concluding, so we are voting a second time. We vote, please, another time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will, of course, have to give a 10-minute recess following the rules of procedure. I ask you, and for greater concentration and of course - this is my purely private opinion that we are in some way adapting to ourselves, if this is, of course, conceiving, but I think that actually is not enough concentration. Thank you very much. We'll continue if you have 10 minutes. 15 / 33
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Allow us to resume the session. We're continuing the session! This is the third time we will decide on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We have an amendment to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 38, for 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment to Article 4 has been adopted. We have in our consideration Article 5 and the four amendments, by making a mistake in the first amendment - the applicant is the government; also with the second amendment. Anybody want to talk? Please, Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I just want to explain the fourth amendment. On the proposal of the President for infrastructure, I would like to amend this amendment slightly to read as follows: "The data referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Article relating to a particular carrier may be transmitted..." - here we would add the word "only to this" to the carrier, if that's what it takes. It's called "just this." It is, however, that an individual would have the right to have access to official records in the part where they relate to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Please make a written proposal. We will vote, but I ask you to make a written proposal to the amendment. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the government's first amendment to Article 5. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, 39 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the first amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please! There are 47 Members and Members present. For 32 to 8. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We vote on the third amendment. We're voting, please! There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the fourth amended amendment, as explained. We're voting, please! Just a minute. Of course it's not that. We are voting, please, on the fourth amendment. We're voting! There are 56 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 8. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 7. Four amendments. Anybody want to talk? He wants Ambassador Kelemin. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! First, I'd like to discuss the amendment under number one. In fact, it seems that you have added some new conditions on the basis of such complex conditions already mentioned in Article 7 as the conditions for obtaining a licence. In fact, I apologize, I meant to discuss the second amendment to Article 7 and the fourth amendment to Article 7. I'm going to discuss these two amendments. I'm sorry. First of all, I'm going to be talking about the second amendment, which is the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We propose deleting point 7 of Article 7 of the first paragraph. There was a lot of discussion at first reading and second reading. We still believe that it is possible to arrange parking spaces for carriers in another way. We have also made the appropriate proposals for this, and we think that as a condition for a licence, it should not be in this law and it is not a European category either, nor do we need to tighten the conditions for obtaining a licence in such a way that we know that this issue will not be resolved at some point in time. That's for Article 2. See, that's point two. With regard to point 4, I would like to comment on the government's amendment, which is what I started at the beginning. In fact, despite all sorts of extremely difficult and complicated conditions for obtaining a license, whose goal is, of course, to eventually destroy a small carrier - this is a fact we have already talked about, but that I will not repeat this thing - you have found another additional reason to complicate the matter in any way and to limit any free economic initiative and set additional new conditions. Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? Let me answer that question! And why are you setting such impossible conditions here as this fourth amendment of yours?Oh, my God! Where did you get this? Where else did you get this? And then you say, there you explain with some road safety law. There's no such thing as a marriage. There is no such law. There is a road safety law. And you even misquote certain things in your explanation. While I highly appreciate and deeply respect the inability of government representatives to do so in this law; however unnecessary conditions as you have written here should not be put into law. I ask you kindly why the things that are laid down in other laws are put into these laws - if the Road Traffic Safety Act specifies precisely how they can carry out transports, who can carry them, how long the transport, continuity, rest and so on can take. I hope you've read the Road Traffic Safety Act. I've got it all here right now. There are plenty of you there on the government that could thoroughly study these things and know that there is no point in the things that have already been processed in one law, to reintegrate into another law and to limit, to set some conditions that are not suitable for this law that we are currently considering - on road transport. I would ask that you also understand the Members of the Coalition and accept this explanation and that we do not support the Fourth Amendment. It is absurd that you prescribe the number of employed drivers, how many drivers someone must have, according to the number of vehicles, employees. It's not your problem if someone has 40 trucks and only one driver. That's not your problem. Not in this marriage. This is a matter of law on road safety, inspection services and all other institutions which must identify these things and, if irregularities are to occur, sanction these things. But it's not a matter of this law! And I'd like to ask you to gather, concentrate, and to throw things that are not necessary in this marriage out. Because this is, this law that we are considering today - unfortunately I have not been able to come in time to give a general opinion on this law of our parliamentary group on road transport - is a bunch of unnecessary salads that actually complicate the legal order, the legal system and legislation in particular areas. And let me ask you, please, to concentrate and give these things that are not necessary in this law to be eliminated. So many comments on Article 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you. Dear Member Kelemin! I'd like to make a few comments. For the first time, of course, if you disagree, you will vote against. The second time you had the opportunity to put an amendment on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	We just got this today!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Member Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would simply say that the Group of Members withdraws the amendment under number 1, even for some of the reasons already mentioned. In fact, we believe that in some ways the basic version of this article is sufficiently extensive - conditions and criteria, which in some ways should also define the conditions for licensing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr Prosim, Ambassador Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. With all due respect for your work, I must say that in our Slovenian National Party Group we still agree with everything that Mr Kelemina has said. Maybe it's true what you said you could put an amendment on the amendment. It is true, however, what Mr Kelemina said that when preparing the amendments themselves, it is sometimes necessary to think about, think about and see what the law does or does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision-making. So the first amendment is gone. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! 52 Members and Members are present. For 17, against 33. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third amendment of the four groups of Members. We're voting, please! We're voting! Wait a minute. May I ask if he's working now? Okay. Thank you very much. I interrupt in five minutes to get the expert services to figure out what's going on with the voting device. Can we continue or wait? We're moving on. We are voting again on the third amendment. Let's vote, please! There are 50 Members and Members present, for 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're voting on the fourth amendment. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 36, for 16. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. He wants to discuss Ambassador Kelemin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In view of the ignorance of all together, I will nevertheless try to explain the views of our Group on the amendment to Article 8. In fact, under all the impossible conditions you have set for obtaining a licence, for which you have agreed somewhere to vote this too - however, I am obliged to say that in all these indiscretions, because we want to improve this text and make it so that at least a little is appropriate and also transparent and respected, we have proposed deleting the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 8. In fact, we firmly believe that a good reputation is a category that is actually sought by all exemplary, honest, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, managers, owners of companies; surely everyone strives to have a good reputation, a good name. And if this is described in principle, how and what is certainly sufficient. However, to list so many different conditions for a good reputation and even discredit someone who has already been convicted of an offence and so on, it is even an unconstitutional category. No one should be treated for what he has already been punished for, and if he has a bad name, people and the public will certainly know that he has a bad name, and there is no need to expose him in particular, but to make thousands of records that you intend to keep and thereby increase red tape and pay for it. I don't know who's gonna pay for all this. I would also like to know if a government representative could reply - if you would answer me that way, and if so, tell me, and I will also support this - in what law on companies, on business, are any such provisions provided for by the carriers: on good name and good reputation? If this is described elsewhere in any other law in Slovenia in the way it is in this law, then I can support it, but otherwise not. I can't imagine such conditions even exist, and that's unacceptable. Therefore, please understand that this is ballast, which is not necessary in this law, and let us try today in the third reading to improve this text at least a little - at least a little, we cannot absolutely do so because the law is imported to a large extent. I hope you'll understand and that you've studied matters quite thoroughly so that you'll know what we're deciding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	If he wants a representative of the Magi government. Peter Pengal, Secretary of State, can answer, but it's not necessary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course I want to answer. Thank you for asking, too. A good reputation is a category which is introduced in this law in principle and in accordance with regulations, which is also often subject to, whether or not we comply with the regulations of the European Communities. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2009 on the And that's what they write. And, of course, from these, we're summarizing as well. Those three indents that you wish to be absent are the indents in which it is determined that a good reputation is linked to repeated infringements. If a repeater is a breach, then - and this is also a category in the regulation - then he is renounced for a certain period or not licensed for the whole. That, if that's enough, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Please, Ambassador Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Yeah, thanks for the answer. Otherwise, I doubt it, and I'm gonna ask you to look at these documents. Whether in these guidelines, instructions, whatever you already have, so precisely defined, is described, a good reputation, a good name. I'm pretty sure it's not that exact. But please, let's be real! Whoever's involved in such crimes, and with such matters as what you wrote here, is not going to ask for a license, not to carry out an activity. And the conditions here in this, in transportation now are so tight that the license won't go looking for someone who already is, has, I don't know what bad past or whatever. We're pretty sure we don't. I'm pretty sure! And all this stuff is pure ballast. Pure ballast, unnecessary! Well, if this is also possible, the element of deterrence from obtaining a license and so on - I don't know. But I firmly believe that new to the difficult conditions you're setting here, but if they do, no one will ask for a license. That's my personal opinion and, of course, your thing is, if you're defending it in a different way. I suggest that you support this amendment to Article 8 of our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. We vote, please, on the amendment to Article 8. There are 48 Members and Members present. For 15, against 31. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment was not accepted. We're moving on to Article 9. Two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Kelemin would like to see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but the amendments tabled by our Group of Members were now in order, and I regret to have to make an announcement. I would like to make an explanation for the first amendment to Article 9. In fact, according to what I said before. I would also like to ask for the reply of a government representative. In fact, setting up such difficult conditions to obtain a licence - a suitable financial position for a carrier - is my opinion and I hope you will also assess, absurd. Total absurdity. See, here you demand that someone has a reserve of at least 9,000 euros available for one truck, that is about 2 million dollars or 20,000 marks, and that this is deposited then on the bank and then you request a bank guarantee for financial institutions, confirmation by domestic carriers that they are not more than two months behind in the payment of taxes and contributions and so on. We've talked about these things so much before, it's almost a waste of words. But nevertheless: try to understand that what remains when we delete what we are proposing is quite enough for a proper financial situation. So, delete the first and second paragraphs and then delete them with the second amendment Pardon! [[..]] And in the third paragraph, to delete the first, sixth and seventh indents. Other indents are: a copy of the balance sheet from the Court Register, from which the amount of the establishment capital is visible, is some information that says a lot; a copy of the balance sheet - certainly; a list of individual tangible basic assets - to see how much someone has some basic assets; proof of ownership of unladen real estates - these are important data that affect the decisions of a person, including an observer or a beneficiary of a service, that he can verify, say if someone fulfils some conditions for a suitable financial position. However, there are such difficult conditions to obtain even a license, that someone has so much money in the pile, and that then there is a successful carrier and so on and is not behind in paying taxes; such an entrepreneur, I don't know if we have one. I don't know if we have it or who it is today. Who is this today and who can ensure that - especially if someone first asks for a license, where he will get enough money to invest in the purchase of all the basic assets, reserve capital on the bank and so on. These are absurdities and these are impossible conditions. These are impossible conditions and I would ask [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u136	and I would ask, however, to support this amendment, because we believe that these reasons, which remain sufficiently weighty and also sufficiently binding, are perfectly appropriate as a condition for obtaining the licence. [[...]] Excuse me, Madam Vice President, I think I have the right to explain the amendment and to explain it and explain it as long as I want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u137	You're a little confused, but I have no intention of arguing with you. Member Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Personally, I think that this law is really discriminatory through several articles and is the fundamental intention of this law to monopolize this area. All of these requirements, as Mr Kelemina spoke about, are of course those which small, smaller car carriers cannot meet, while large auto-transport companies can do so. See, these articles, as he explained, on the other hand, increase red tape, which will require all these papers, all these evidences, and thus prevent the development of what we like to talk about in our country to help and develop: little entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. So through all of this, such and similar things are being hampered and will not be achieved. What is required in the second paragraph of this Article and in the first indent of the third paragraph, that those wishing to obtain a licence must have paid all the duties to the State, namely that the payment period should not be longer than two months, this would in principle be good, but then, in all the laws under which our citizens acquire any rights, this provision should be entered. However, if we have only in the Automobile Act, then I personally understand such requirements as discrimination against certain parts of our citizens. However, what is interesting about this is that the State itself, as a contracting entity, as well as some municipalities, does not pay the executive organisations after months and is often involved in this and in poor motorists. However, given how this voting machine works in Parliament, there is probably no point in advertising and representing itself, I would say, on some other side of a different view, because I am sure that all the amendments proposed by the Government will be voted 30-15, so at least show the result so far, and all the amendments proposed by other candidates will be rejected with the same result. So perhaps we are needlessly wasting time with these explanations. It would be best for us to vote in the package, and this will be the case as soon as possible. Once again, I believe that, just as solutions are prescribed in this law, it is a matter of monopolizing and assisting large companies and destroying small motorists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He does.]] Ambassador Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you, Chairman. Since we are talking about the amendment to Article 9, under Article 1, we will also support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We fully agree with the content of the statement or, if we shrug, it is monopolization, it is discrimination. If you just count this amount of money, 10,000 euros, if I've calculated it correctly, it's going to be 2 million 170 thousand dollars. What little car carrier will have this guarantee? When we had the law in the second reading and in the first general reading, I remember reporting, as instructed by the Chamber of Commerce in Zasavje, which asked me to say that the current payment of tax obligations for carriers in the country, Republic of Slovenia, is almost impossible for one simple reason: because all the tenants, i.e. the contracting authorities of these trucks, do not pay for the transport they ordered. And when I asked if they had statistics, they told me that according to their statistics, and that's the saddest thing to hear, even the country's biggest debtor to these carriers. So how can one article require the carrier to pay all taxes and obligations if its work is not paid even after five, six or seven months. And unfortunately, once again, according to the workers of the trade hall on the side of the country. We therefore once again support the amendment to Article 9. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask another question to the representative. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u143	Dear colleague Kelemin! Look, we have some rules that we need to stick to.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u144	What's that?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u145	Yeah, what a mess!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u146	Then explain it to me. You're interpreting the rules of procedure. Tell me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u147	Dear colleague Kelemin! Just as I need to know the rules of procedure, so do you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u148	Yeah, but you're interpreting it now. Tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u149	It's debated once. I don't know how many times you'd argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u150	Not me, not me. Since when? How can I not ask a further question about an amendment? Yeah, well, then tell me where it says it. I don't know that. I've got the rules of procedure here. Here you go! I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u151	Ask me a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[A laugh from behind.]] Wait, that's not funny! This is a serious discussion, boys, respected colleagues. [[Laughs and voices from behind.]] I would like to ask a further question in view of all these conditions that we have set here and the conditions for obtaining the licence. I would also like to ask the government representative whether other entities in this system, when obtaining different licences, have as strict conditions regarding the appropriate financial situation as you have set them up for carriers. Tell me, who else has such conditions for acquiring to open a business, any such harsh criteria and harsh conditions. As far as I can remember, the company law doesn't say anything about this. How is it possible that you have set such strict conditions here for an appropriate financial situation and for obtaining a licence and for obtaining any activity at all? This has no legal basis or category anywhere: not a company law, not a constitutional category. Where did you get this? Let me answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u153	Anybody else want to discuss this? One moment, please. I have a feeling that we are discussing things that are not in this Article 9 and the amendments that we have extended this debate. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u154	If you'll excuse me. I would answer the question raised first and concerning this amendment. The amounts set out in Council of Europe Directive 98/76 EC of 1 October 1998 are the same amounts, 9,000 euros and 5,000 euros. I'd like to point out the following. The 9,000 euro is already at least in the vast majority, I understand, the value of the smallest vehicle the carrier has; however, if the carrier is not the owner of the vehicle, of course, problems may arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We vote on the first amendment to Article 9. We're voting, please. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 20, for 36. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 20, for 33. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to Article 10 and the two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Kelemin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to discuss the amendment to Article 10, paragraph 2, which, in the entire review and repeated reading of this law, somehow I have found or have the feeling that there is a lot of disagreement. In fact, if we look at Article 6 which we are not currently considering, but all of this is connected because it is related, first of all, point 3 states: "The licence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article does not need to be obtained if the following types of transport are involved..." Then it states this, and then it is transferred from the article to the article - this article is conditioned by the second article, article 19, paragraph 7, once again, and finally we get back to article 10, which says - let's just look at this! - here he says: "The license referred to in paragraph 1 of this article does not need to be obtained," then we come around the law three times and finally come back to Article 10, which reads: "To obtain a license you must..." It says before, you don't have to get a license, and now we have to win. I mean, now I don't understand. And even so far, as I know, it has been such that it has been a bit of a relief that those entrepreneurs who are transporting goods for their own needs would be easier to do so that not all of these educations would have to be done, because it seems to me that someone who is transporting for their own needs is now going to have to work on a professional qualification to lead the work process in the field of transport - it seems nonsense to me. It seems pointless to me now to educate someone so far as to have one truck carrying material from one construction site to another for its own needs, and absolutely nothing else - that it must now have a truck over 3,600 kilograms of carrying capacity or total mass. Therefore, it seems to me to set such conditions - I don't know who else will be able to do anything under such conditions or who will open a new company, so that they can carry out some transportation for their own purposes if there are such great restrictions. I would suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Member Gerencher has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u158	I agree with the amendment, and I think we can support it because it's about transporting our own needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u160	Just for an explanation. The first amendment is not an amendment by the New Slovenia Group. I don't know who filed it. I say that, by chance, the coalition would not vote against this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u161	One moment. We'll check it out right away. Explanation. The first amendment was tabled by four parliamentary groups. Anybody else want to discuss this? I don't think so. I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. The first amendment of the four groups of Members. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present. For 48, against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please. There are 57 Members and Members present. 49 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was adopted. We're moving on to Article 11. Two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Thank you also for your support for the previous amendment. Here, in article 11, the law also speaks of drivers. At least so far, I did it myself once when I had my own company, that I trained my construction worker, who was just doing all the other business, but because I needed a driver, I trained him as a truck driver. That's just how he used to do these things to me from time to time, from one construction site to another. I couldn't do it now after my new marriage. And once again, he must acquire a national professional qualification for the transport of goods and so on. I would suggest that we also adopt this provision, because somehow it is also linked to the previous article, if possible. If not, it'll just be the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the first amendment to Article 11. We're voting, please. There are 57 Members and Members present. 54, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! There are 55 Members and Members present. Twenty-one, thirty-two. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 12. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. In Article 12, our Group proposes to delete the third paragraph, which deals with bus drivers if they set additional conditions, when they can perform or how bus owners can carry out their operations. See, this third paragraph of Article 12 is totally unnecessary in this law. I don't know how you imagine, distinguished representatives of the government, the ministry, give me, please explain why this third point is even in this law, what it's doing here. In fact, the Road Traffic Safety Act says nicely that before you can even work category D, it says when you're 21 years old and you're going to do exam D, you have to drive at least two years of truck over 7,500 kg or 3,600 or 7,500, I don't know. But the terms, I have a law here, we can look at this article, I think it's a 151st article or something. There's a condition when you can even take that exam. So at least two years you have to drive a category C exam, then you get a condition to go work for D. Now you're the one who did the hedgehog exam, and now you're sending him back to drive another year's truck. Please, this is unacceptable. Why do you set additional conditions out of other laws that are unacceptable? And now you're demanding that after driving a truck for two years, he pass the D test, and now he's driving the truck for another year. That's not acceptable. Please! Why do you mix these things up and set extra conditions that are impossible? I would ask you to take this with understanding and to delete this thing here, because all the other conditions here are quite correctly stated and oblige all beneficiaries to meet these conditions. This is totally unnecessary and I ask you to accept it here or at least explain it, government representatives, please identify yourself and say that I am right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] The Secretary of State has the floor. Peter Pengal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The answer will be a little bit of my own, because I have the original English text here. This matter is governed by European Regulation 3820/85 in Article 5. We've taken all these dictions directly. I recall, if I may remind you, all the debates in the previous two discussions, and I think that the coordination of conditions between European carriers and our one of the basic motives that this body wanted, and that is what we have been doing, and that is also what we are doing in this article of the law. I do not have a regulation in translation but are otherwise available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u168	Yeah, I got a replica. Well, if the European Community has set such foolish conditions, then I don't know what. Then I don't know anything anymore, because I don't really know why we have a road safety law, why these things aren't settled in these documents, or how, then I don't understand. If we accept such nonsense from this European Community, then I don't know where we're going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We vote, please, on the amendment to Article 12. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 19, for 30. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move on to Article 13 and two amendments. I'm sorry, the second amendment has been withdrawn. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. See, it really seems ridiculous to me to mention such precise or impossible exact words as in this article and then in the following article, when you say - say, "In the case of the licensee, apply for a licence with an exact indication of the type of transport." Yes, is it not enough to obtain a licence indicating the type of transport? It can't be any different than it can be! This must anyway be exactly as indicated in the licence, so it must write and nothing else. You can't fake those documents there now! Why should you write, emphasize, exactly, exactly, and just as if no one could rewrite what is already written somewhere. Please, come on, let's be rational! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Member Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u172	I think that the first part of this amendment is more editorial in nature, and there is nothing to deny what Mr Kelemina said. However, the essence of this amendment is in the second part when it changes the number, it is said how many years the licence is issued. That's not how the amendment is to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, 13 to 32. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment to Article 13 has not been adopted. We're moving on to Article 14. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u174	It's just the same here, and now there's something I don't understand, I'm sorry. I don't know, but right now, maybe you should take a look, just a trifle, if you don't mind. To see if this is even us, it's an editorial, an object at this point I'm simply out of context. [[....]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present for 14 to 33. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment to Article 14 was not adopted. We're moving on to Article 16. We have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. We are simply proposing that Article 16 be deleted because we simply do not see the reason why we should temporarily take a license. I think that when you take someone's license temporarily, you're essentially doing economic damage to the state, because in the meantime, someone can't work and they won't pay taxes and so on. I don't think that's necessary. We consider that a whole range of other instruments, which are written in this law and in other laws, on the basis of which certain rules are to be respected, the legal order and that there is a whole range of other instruments. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] with which you can commit someone to meet these conditions. If you want to look for some change so that you can take someone's license temporarily or keep them under control, under fear, even because of some political power and so on, then accept such things, but my assessment is that this is a major economic damage to the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State mag. Peter Pengal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I'm going to turn out to be a regular reader. These are also laid down in Article 8 of Council of Europe Regulation 881/92, which states: "In the event of serious infringements or repeated minor infringements of transport regulations, the authorities of the Member State of establishment may, inter alia, withdraw certified authentic copies from the carrier's seat which has committed such infringements." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to the vote to the first amendment to Article 16. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members present. Nine, 34. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 16. We're voting, please. Unfortunately, only 43 Members and Members are present. We ask Members and Members to join us. For the second time, we are voting on the second amendment to Article 16. We're voting, please. Sorry, we're not concluding. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll continue at 4:38.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u180	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. I ask Members and Members who may be in the lobby to join us. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 16. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, 41 to 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're moving on to Article 17. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote, please, on the amendment to Article 17. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 16, for 31. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We turn to Article 24 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote, please, on the amendment to Article 24. I ask that we gather and vote again. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, for 39, for 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're moving on to Article 25. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We decide on the amendment to Article 25. We're voting, please. There are 59 Members and Members present. Forty-seven, versus one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote in favour of the new Article 26th. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. It was considered appropriate for our Group to re- table the amendment to Article 26. Article 26 was, in the second reading, the majority of the bees were lined. It seemed appropriate for us that if this law imposed so many new requirements and also certain burdens on motorists that even if the car carrier was forced to carry out transport operations due to the closure of a section of the road, or had higher costs in the course of carrying out transport, the operator or the contracting entity would also reimburse him for such costs. We suggest that the cost be reimbursed when the journey or time is 20 percent or more greater than the normal route or time. It would be right to support this amendment and to show some will and some form of assistance to the state's road hauliers as well. It's a public road. For the freeways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u182	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. We're voting, please. There are 58 Members and Members present. 17 to 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] Article 26a has not been adopted. We're moving on to Article 30. We have two amendments that are the same. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 59 Members and Members present. For 50, against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was adopted. The second amendment is irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 31. The first amendment has been withdrawn. Anybody want to talk? The only thing left is the other amendment. Please, Member Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. It's a little different, Mr. Chairman, as you said. With a new proposal from the Road Transport Act, the third reading, 22.6., the articles were renumbered. And Article 31 became Article 34, so we withdrew the amendment to Article 31 and added a new article to Article 34. That's what we do. If there's anything else, I'm sorry, but I think he is. In fact, this Article 31 is now 34. Of course, the contents are the same. I'd like you to check if that's true. That's what we have here. I just think the chairman has to define this if that's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u184	I hear your proposal is in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. So this is about Article 34. Of course, the contents are the same. In my second reading, I said that the current Article 34 and the 51st are not in line with the European directives. The European Directive is also such, and given that the European directives have previously been largely referred to by gentlemen from governments, I will now ask them to tell me if I am right. In fact, all legal entities must be subject to the same conditions. If we now compare Article 34 and Article 51, where Article 34 deals with specific line transport in domestic transport and Article 51, special line transport in international transport, the conditions vary. And let me just read two sentences to convince you of that. In fact, Article 34, which speaks of domestic special line transport, states that special line transport is carried out by compulsory children between home and school, disabled persons, passengers and so on. 51st, which applies to international special lines, says: "With special line transport, the transport of workers to work and home, the transport of students and students to educational establishments..." and so on. Now let me ask the representatives of the government, in which European directive is that not all legal entities in the territory, for example, Europe is equal to the conditions, but that the participating countries or members of the European Union are home to one condition, which is stricter, outside the borders, but still to the members of the European Union, but under different conditions, which, I will say, are more normal. If that's possible, please explain to me which country has this. If the President would give me another word, then I would answer the question when I get the answer. We argue that this is not possible and that is not possible in the European Union and that this is even, I will say, contrary to the European directives. That is why we have tabled this amendment and ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much. You have now discussed Article 34. Therefore, the debate is on Article 34. And we have another amendment under article 31. For this reason, we will first complete Article 31. Who wants to discuss the second amendment to Article 31? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote, please! There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 43 to 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Moving to Chapters 1.2 - 1.5. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're making a decision. Let's vote, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 40, for 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Now we are moving on to Article 34, where we have two amendments that are being excluded. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan has already discussed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u187	I'd ask if the government representatives could answer me and then we'd move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u188	He wants a government representative to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I can answer the following. The European Directive regulates international transport. In that article where we regulate international transport, we take this into account. However, it has been decided that within the country - and this is Article 34 - we regulate for specific groups ourselves. In this case, we're handling it. But I would not now repeat the explanation that I gave at the first and second readings, since we have talked about this very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you. Please, Member Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u191	According to this logic, it is exactly as I said in the second reading that someone who has a registered company in Shentil, including a Slovenian, will also be able to carry out the transport of students and students, but one who is registered in Maribor will not be allowed to do so. It is said that international transport with Austria is also Slovenia. The Austrians will be able to do this, and we can't. So it doesn't make sense, because for them it's international traffic. That's what you said. But I think the point is somewhere else. In order to satisfy the European directives, you have allowed in international traffic that, it is said, someone who will be in Spielfeld - to understand what this is about - says on the Austrian side, has a registered company, will be able to do so, but not domestically. If not, our legal entities in Slovenia, I will say, are in an unequal position and not equal before European legislation. Then something doesn't add up - if there's a restriction on domestic transport, but not international transport. It doesn't work together.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u193	Dear Vice President! I believe that this provision is discriminatory and to the detriment of Slovenian legal entities. I'm afraid that's not the only provision that the government has thought too little about before they put it into circulation. I would therefore really suggest that the Government's representatives explicitly state the directive and the text of this Directive, so that Members and Members know what one of us really wants and then we can make decisions. If they do not, it means that this could have occurred because of, would not have guessed what the reasons or the superficiality are, and in such a case, of course, I would have appealed to fellow Members and Members to support our amendment and thereby prevent discrimination against our carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only like to have this dilemma, which has now been answered by the Secretary of State, when he speaks of the fact that, for that part, it is said for external traffic, we have adopted a directive and we do not need to take this into account within. Before that, he had said otherwise that we must apply this directive to all of us. I am in fact now in one big dilemma, whether it is really necessary now to take all this into account or even impose more on our domestic legal entities than on the outside, or how these directives are now being taken into account. I just don't get it anymore. I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] The Secretary of State has the floor. Peter Pengal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you. I don't have a directive with me, but I'm going to read the number because we already mentioned it. This is a directive or a regulation of numbers. 684/92 in conjunction with the amendment to Regulation No 684/92. 11/98, entitled Ensuring access to the market for international bus and coach transport of passengers. There's something I'd like to say. With these articles, we regulate the behaviour and operations of carriers in international and domestic transport, which means that a foreign or domestic carrier must abide by the laws in force in both countries in accordance with the international contract. So a foreigner who would come to drive, as you expect, should respect the provisions of this article in the same way as domestic ones if it were stipulated in the international contract that he could do so in Slovenia. On the other hand, the same is true. If one of us from Slovenia would like to have a line to take her to Austria, then of course, unless these acts are set at international level, this is not possible. With respect to both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u198	Please. Replica, Member Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you, President. It's not that many replicas. I'm only interested in something else. When we become full members of the European Union, what then? But the international foreign, then it'll be all the same. It's one market. We know that the European Union is now removing borders for the capital market, services, labour force, everything. Then this will essentially be the whole internal market. So what do we have to change or not? Just don't tell me you won't have to change because borders are falling in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u200	Please. Secretary of State mag. Peter Pengal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u201	I have to cheer you up, you won't have to change, because there will always be an interstate trip between Slovenia and Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, we have now found, on the basis of a vote statement, that someone in the parliamentary group is voting instead of another. From the last three votes, 30s, 31st and Chapters I to II, I to V, we have found that someone in the parliamentary group is voting for someone who is not in their own bench. And we want this to be clarified and all these votes annulled. That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u204	Can we find out? Dear colleague, we can find out the name and surname of this Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u205	Yes, my colleague Germič is on the other side, and the votes are all voted here. How?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u206	Please, one moment. Let's do it in order. Who wants a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u207	Sit there all the time, we've been watching, outside of our bench, but the voices are here. That's unacceptable. This is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much. For the first time, I suggest that the expert services find out what this vote was like. And secondly, the Election and Appointment Commission is dealing with this case. Of course, the messenger was in the hall. It was said. So we continue the session. There are no more debaters. We are voting on the first amendment to Article 34, which is written on page 12 below Article 31. This is the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. Let's vote, please! 52 Members and Members are present. 16 to 33. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. By Article 34, we have another amendment on page 13, and we are now deciding on it. We're voting, please! Article 34 There are 55 Members and Members present. 41 to 10. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 35, one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please! We're voting, please, on Article 35. There are 50 Members and Members present. For 43, against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 36 with seven amendments. Does anyone want to discuss it, please? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. First, we vote on the amendment under number 1 - 4 of the parliamentary group. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present for 38, against 7. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the amendment to the government's amendment has been adopted. We vote on the amendment to the Government's amendment under number two. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 14 for, 35 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the third amendment to the government's amendment. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, for 43, for 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We will vote on the fourth amendment; if this amendment is adopted, they remain irrelevant. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I find that the amendment under number 4 has been adopted; amendments under numbers 5, 6 and 7 have become irrelevant. We move on to Chapter 1.6. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 41, for 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving to the amendment for a new 61.a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. 49 Members and Members are present, for 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We move on to the amendment to Article 67. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I have received an explanation that the amendments to Articles 67 and 68 are irrelevant because they have been tabled in those articles where the amendments were not adopted in the second reading. This is why we will not vote on them. Article 70, as I am informed, has been withdrawn. Article 76 is also withdrawn - pardon, of course the amendment to this article. And we're moving on to Article 94. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We decide, we vote, please. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 15, against 37. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment to this Article has not been adopted. They're moving on to Article 98. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please! The 50 Members and Members present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're moving on to Article 99. There are three amendments. If the second one is adopted, the third one is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Please, Ambassador Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We have actually drafted an amendment to the 98th article tabled by the Government by amending the article. I think that these conditions that have been put forward now, with our proposal, would be more optimal, acceptable to carriers and that, even in some foreseeable time, these things would be successfully resolved. However, we believe that the adoption of such an amendment would greatly contribute to ensuring that, normally, in some normal timeframes and normal conditions, some of the conditions laid down by the law are met before our carriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Gerencher.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. I propose that we support the amendment to amendment number 3, four parliamentary groups: LDS, DeSus, Slovenian People's Party and the United Nations, and we think it is the most complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u212	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We are voting on the first amendment to Article 99. We're voting, please. 56 Members and Members present, 13 to 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not accepted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting, please. 50 Members and Members present, for 9 to 34. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are still voting on amendment number three. We're voting, please, under number three! Sorry we're not enough right now. We'll vote next time. We're voting, please! There are 46 Members and Members present. For 40, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're looking at paragraph 103. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u213	I would like to briefly explain the amendment to Article 103. In the second reading, we adopted an amendment to Article 103, which turns road inspection into a road police force. Since we are convinced that we have enough police officers in Slovenia, we do not think it necessary for road inspectors to be able to obtain specially marked service vehicles with which to stop trucks in road traffic. We are confident that the road inspector can request the assistance of the police whenever he wants, and he is doing this with the help of the police. For us, this is a controversial and unnecessary and unnecessary waste of state money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We vote, please, on the amendment to Article 103. We're voting, please! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 17 to 33. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to 116th, two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting, please! We're voting! Unfortunately, the number of voters is not sufficient. Vote, second time. We're voting, please! Regrettably, 44 Members present. I'm taking ten minutes off. 17.22 The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u215	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. This is the third time we have voted on the first amendment to Article 116. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 44 for, against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the 118th Article, to which the three amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. I would like to present our amendment to the second paragraph of Article 118. Article 118, second paragraph, states that "a domestic carrier who does not have a parking space for vehicles from the date of application of this Act shall apply for a new licence to be issued to the administrative unit for the issue of a local or unit permit until 31.12.2001". Since this means by the end of this year, there are many municipalities that do not have the envisaged construction of parking lots with their spatial plans or have no spatial implementing acts for the construction of parking lots, we propose that this date be extended by two years, that is until the end of 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We will vote in the following order: first on the first amendment on page 21, then on the amendment we have received in writing separately, and then on the amendment under number 2, or now this is the new amendment, the amendment under number 3. So, first we vote on the first amendment on page 21. We're voting, please. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 13, for 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are deciding on the second amendment that we have received separately, which has four parliamentary groups to propose. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 40, for 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are also voting on the third amendment, written under number 2. We're voting, please. There are 56 Members and Members present. For 42, against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, given the very little time available when monitoring the drafting of this law and the vote on amendments, it was not enough time to fully compare the large-scale amendments adopted with those amendments. Therefore, it is difficult to assess with full responsibility whether full compliance with such amendments is ensured. Which is why we'd like to ask for a delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u219	Thank you very much. So we have heard that in such a short time it was not possible to determine if everything is in line, so of course I will interrupt this agenda item and we will continue when the secretariat prepares its opinion. Tomorrow, it'll be done by tomorrow. I thank you and interrupt this agenda item. Thank you very much to the Ministry. We're moving to 36. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia. We'll wait -- okay. The government representative is here. I ask Members and Members to take the appropriate material. The proposal for a national programme was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a national road safety programme is based on Article 3 of the Road Safety Act and is the result of the analysis of the traffic safety situation and the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, the transport safety problems specific to Slovenia and the current state of traffic safety. The preparation of the programme took into account a number of directives and resolutions of the Council of the European Union and a strategic road safety plan of the countries of the European Union and a number of national programmes of the European countries. The programme is complex, interdisciplinary and from the point of view of the safety profession a rather demanding document. It has clearly defined objectives and activities for a four-year period. The main purpose of the programme was to define key carriers and timelines for carrying out concrete tasks to reduce the number of accidents and their consequences. Education and education, technical measures, supervision of compliance with safety and legal standards, research on road safety, media activities and other measures aimed at changing transport safety positions and practices are the characteristics of this document, which will help meet its purpose and objective. The programme manages the three safety most exposed categories of road users, namely pedestrians, cyclists and young motor vehicles drivers, which are primarily considered as potential victims of traffic accidents. In addition to these most vulnerable groups, the programme addresses and highlights the two most common causes of accidents, namely speed and alcohol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The proposal for a national programme was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a national programme. The Chairman of the Lavrinc Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the proposal for a national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the most debate on the Committee was, first of all, to say, whether the national programme ahead of us should be dealt with in the national assembly or whether it is a government domain. This is also what the secretariat has been alerting. I would say that, in the discussion, the opinion was drawn up that, in a way that Parliament is considering a national programme that is supposed to solve our traffic security to the extent that the final objective programme places a significant reduction in the number of fatal accidents, this decision has therefore prevailed. It was also stressed in the debate - also as the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs had pointed out - that the national programme, which should therefore be published in the Official Journal when it is adopted in accordance with the procedure now adopted, should be made difficult, as the publication of the national programme submitted should be given on a case-by-case basis. And also some of the things in the explanation are part of the national programme itself. I must say that this has also led to a discussion in a number of directions. But this is about the concrete action of the police in our country, which, according to some Members, I think that what has been largely supported is somehow useless in certain areas, especially the police ambushes have been highlighted, so to speak, where no one is actually at risk because only traffic offences are taking place, but there are, for example, some black spots where traffic accidents with a fatal outcome would occur. The Ministry's representative responded to these concerns and informed us of the assessment of the international institutions that the work of our police is correct. I would also like to point out that, in the discussion, there was a particular position that there may be a mistake in granting a penalty for half the penalty in the offence law if the offender pays the penalty within the time limit provided for in the law. And, of course, it was also pointed out that the law in its initial implementation had contributed well to improving road safety. This is not to be overlooked, but statistics also show. In addition to the conclusions proposed by the parties, I think everything that is worth mentioning would also be worth mentioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He's not here.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u224	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, I have tabled a proposal for a decision. I apologize if business or legal form is not the right name - to the national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia - which contains quite something, I will say, very specific provisions, so it would be difficult to say that this is a complementary proposal. With the decision put forward in the Slovenian National Party, I proposed to the proposer - I wanted the proposer to define in the second phase in the national programme also the stadium or the technical culture stadiums or, if you would like, the construction of stadiums or stadiums of technical culture. In Slovenia more than 50% of dead drivers of all categories than in Europe [[This is a one-year data]] . Slovenia is also the least secure country in the European Union, together with Portugal and Greece. The biggest reasons for such tragic data and ugly numbers are speed, ignorance, but unfortunately the most common causes and at the same time the most frequent victims are mostly young drivers. Almost 50% of all fatal accidents are due to the excessive speed of ignorance and, of course, incompetence. All this data shows that commercialisation in the period of independence in the wake of social policy changes has given enormously in the quantitative field, possibly theoretical knowledge, and the profession estimates that it has been neglected as such. And too fast are young drivers with cars, motorcycles and other means of transport on the road. There they have the only possibility of practical learning, education, and unfortunately, there is too much speed, miscalculation, slips with motorcycles ending in death. Many of us have personally estimated that people - even this element I think is worth mentioning - have released adrenaline in this particular space, without the danger of facing other drivers and without the possibility of putting other road users at risk. In Slovenia, according to my assessment, I also believe in your respected colleague, colleague, that a technical culture stadium is urgently needed. Experience in our neighbours shows that technical culture stadiums are essential due to: firstly, the education of young drivers of all categories; secondly, as a safe driving learning range; thirdly, as a school ground for additional and basic training; fourthly, as an excellent facility for the work of general examination centres; as a space, fifthly, for the release of adrenaline from skilled drivers. It would also be a stadium of technical culture or more such an excellent school centre for the education of drivers in the country, i.e. police drivers, military drivers and all individuals who want education, as well as an excellent field for education and learning for all future professional drivers. Experience has been confirmed in neighbouring Austria, just for example, in Tüssdorf and Vienna, where two such general stadiums of technical culture and two general centres of technical education. Not to mention, of course, all the other effects such a stadium would have. After all, it would also have great economic significance. It is because in the world they have proven that they have drastically reduced the number of accidents, the number of dead participants in traffic accidents and drastically reduced the number of disabled persons who are affected by traffic accidents. All this costs state institutions and natural persons. However, if such a technical culture stadium were to be built in the Republic of Slovenia, of course it could also be used for different purposes, we could also call them commercial purposes that would bring to that country or to owners of this infrastructure facility, in addition to all the above, a certain profit. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask that you also support the proposed decision when it is, of course, your turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you very much. On behalf of New Slovenia, Ambassador Majda Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Government Representative and Honourable Assembly! The proposal for a national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia covers five projects and includes four ministries desiring to ensure that each in its field reduces the number of deaths in traffic accidents by 2005. The programme deals with the three safety most exposed categories of road users: pedestrians, cyclists and young drivers of passenger cars and the two most common causes of road accidents, speed and alcohol. The national road safety programme, which contains carriers, tasks, resources and responsibilities and has a 50% ambition to reduce the causes and consequences of accidents, needs to be welcomed and supported in its efforts, as it constitutes a key link between vision and transport policy. However, national programmes usually fail to produce the desired results if they are so well written. Therefore, our Group would like to highlight in particular those areas that have a indirect impact on road safety. First of all, they would point out transport infrastructure and adequate vehicle equipment, as this does not correspond to today's transport. An important safety segment are roads, sidewalks, cycling trails, intersections that still need to be rearranged and rearranged in many ways. The indirect cause of many accidents is the inadequate arrangement of settlements where there are no safe areas, arranged pedestrian crossings, as we know that more than 70% of those who died on local and regional roads. There are high expectations in the municipalities, and in this regard legislation needs to be amended. Each municipality is to draw up an operational plan of action in this area. It is therefore necessary to provide more resources in any way. However, stable and sustainable resources are needed, which will have to be taken into account in the financing of municipalities. The estimated social damage caused by traffic victims per year is enormous and should not be a problem to invest at least 10% of this large sum to implement these measures. The other area to be highlighted is education and education and technical measures. In doing so, we are not only referring to project operators and individual tasks, but in a broader sense to the culture of behaviour and accountability in road transport and to the full renewal of the training of future drivers. We know that today, in this sense, there is too much looking for quick profits, but the result of the training of future drivers, especially young drivers, is not in the first place. And third thing, control and repression by the Ministry of the Interior. It is true that the Road Traffic Safety Act has introduced a more orderly, higher criminal policy, but it does appear that this criminal policy is not as successful as we expected. Police action, in particular the presence of police on the roads, is not always the most appropriate move in order to fill the budget. For this purpose, the police have developed a strategic document that gives priority to quality over quantity. Their view is that it is better to control only a few people on the right side and at the right time than to operate on the crowd, but in practice it is not always so. Our Group hopes and wishes that this national road safety programme is not just a collective wish but a programme that all actors should take very seriously. We are convinced, however, that this depends to the greatest extent on how much the state is willing to devote to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u227	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u228	Dear Mr Vice-President, the House of Respect. In the Social Democratic Party Group, in the Social Democratic Party, we support the urgency and all the reasons given by the applicant in the explanation of the proposal for the national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the information given by the applicant in the explanation given in the introduction and as a red thread being drawn through the entire programme is frightening, alarming and, above all, the question of what has happened or what is happening to us, what is happening to a nation that is so peaceful, capital and self-sustaining that self-destruction is taking place on our roads around us and where we are participants in virtually all those involved in traffic. Slovenia is one of the least secure countries in Europe with 208 dead per million people, and we are not in any way comparable with the European Community countries that we want to compare ourselves with. It is menacing to note that 2,120 people died in Slovenia between 1995 and 2000 and caused invaluable material damage in hundreds of billions of dollars over the years. Not to mention in particular the fact that injuries in traffic accidents are the main cause of the health problems of the population up to the age of 44 and are additionally burdening the health treasury. In the Social Democratic Party, we particularly welcome the direction reflected in the proposed national programme, which brings weight from participants as potential delinquents to participants as victims of transport. However, according to our delegation group, this proposal for a national programme does not have sufficient emphasis on the modern, European comparable, modern, practical training of new future drivers and young drivers who are undoubtedly the most endangered category of drivers. The existing school system of a future driver learns, for example, what a stop sign means, but does not teach him how to stop safely, or how to follow that traffic sign, practically fails. The existing education system of the young driver tortures how and by what means or by what means a slippery road is marked; the candidate and the young driver do not learn to control the vehicle on a slippery, semi-denel or wet road. I must also say that we teach a candidate which sign marks a roadblock but does not show him in practical ways how to avoid these obstacles. And I could also list similar cases. In addition to this existing education system, applicants for motor vehicles do not teach how to deal with unforeseen situations that are a daily phenomenon in traffic. Do not teach the candidate, the young driver, the control of the vehicle in curves in cases and when the control of the vehicle has already been partially lost. Do not teach the candidate how to behave in order to mitigate or significantly mitigate the consequences of the accident. After all, we can also find that we do not show or teach bikes and motorcycles to drivers how to fall properly, control the course of the fall, in order to avoid the worst. It is a sad fact that this lack of practical training is paid by young drivers with their lives. The school, which is left to the young driver and is not in preparation for the motor vehicle driver, requires a high blood tax mainly among young drivers, and as a result we find that young drivers are the most risky group. The fact is that traffic participants are involved in an extremely dynamic process that is very fast and that does not allow in most cases reasonable behaviour and is, you do not want, our survival or the survival of a young driver depending on instinctive action. Instinctive reaction can be acquired or the possibility of instinctive behaviour can only be obtained by exercise and only by appropriate training. And if applicants for motor vehicle drivers do not receive this training, what I have already said happens. However, that drivers or candidates for drivers in our system do not receive such training, such training, such practical training, speaks of the fact that we have only one driver of a safe driving instructor in motor vehicles and that only a small group of instructors working in the field of drivers of passenger vehicles do absolutely nothing to improve the existing system. After all I have said, we have proposed a complementary proposal, with the aim of proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia be supplemented for second reading, perhaps also in Chapter 8 - education and training - in terms of radical and comprehensive renewal of the practical training of future drivers of motor vehicles and young drivers, with emphasis on safe driving techniques. It is also necessary to provide in this national programme for the organisation of such training, the necessary staff and the necessary infrastructure. I am sure that you have understood what I was going to say and that you will support this complementary proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Member Vukko shall have the floor. If, of course, the Member thinks this will take more than five minutes, but in this case, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u230	Dear Vice President, I'll make sure we're done by 6:00. Allow me to present the position of the LDS Group of Members. We fully support the national programme. Although traffic security has improved over the past five years, we cannot be satisfied with this, as also shows by data and comparisons with Europe. The new Road Safety Act has undoubtedly contributed to improving road safety. In addition to the vision that we will have traffic with no fatalities in Slovenia, however, we need a national road transport programme and an appropriate transport policy to continue the trend. We are aware that the national road safety programme does not cover or address all road safety problems and that much work, much coordination and good sector cooperation will be needed in this area. In particular, we note the need to attract municipalities to this national programme. The fact is that most traffic accidents occur on local and regional roads and without the participation of municipalities in an appropriate way, of course, the results of this programme or the objectives will not be achieved. Of course, we all share in Slovenia to stay away from the European bottom at which we are located by number and the consequences of traffic accidents. We therefore support this programme, and we believe that, in addition to these measures envisaged by the programme, it will also be necessary to insist on appropriate criminal policy, because the offence law allows the offender to mitigate the penalty if this is the penalty for paying the time prescribed for it. In this regard, we are also preparing a supplementary decision to examine the purpose of such a solution in the Offences Act. This is unique in Europe to reward the offender if he adheres to the law, the time limit in which he has to pay the fine instead of punishing him if he does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-05-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u231	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Member Celigoj has also been reported, but the Moment will take place. [[...]] I see there are others who signed up: Christmas, Mag. Spending. But since there's no time today, they'll have a chance to perform tomorrow. I interrupt this agenda item and today's session. Of course, I'd like to say a few more words. Please listen. With regard to today's protest by Mr Branko Kelemina on the voting course at agenda 5 I inform you that there was no irregularity during the vote and that the votes were valid. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the consideration of the 36th item of the agenda, then the 37th item of the agenda and the orderly order. Thank you for your cooperation.
