ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr Andrej Bajuk, colleague Bojan Kontič, colleague Jelko Kacin and colleague Yuri Malovra. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. I understand that 65 colleagues and colleagues are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone. Dear Members and Members! On 12 March this year, Mr Vitodrag Puckl died. He was Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia between 1990 and 1992 and Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia between 1992 and 1996. In his memory, today's assembly session will begin with a minute of silence. We'll keep it in permanent memory. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also hold a procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 2nd meeting and of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The logs are available on the computer network. Does anyone require a change and supplement or any other comment on the minutes? [[No, it's not.]] Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We're voting. There are 76 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. In favour of the vote, 60, 2 opposed it. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the minutes of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We're voting. There are 78 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 59 supported them, 2 opposed him. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the minutes of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 13 March this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to proposals for the withdrawal of matters from the agenda. I propose that we withdraw the 26th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act. The proposal for a law fulfils the business conditions for consideration. In accordance with the agreement of the College, however, it was said that we would decide on the proposal for a law if the mother's working body would also consider this proposal by the beginning of the meeting. The mother's working body has this bill on the agenda tomorrow. I propose that the National Assembly decide whether, despite such an agreement, we keep or withdraw the proposal from the agenda. I therefore propose that we vote on the withdrawal of the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Health Action Act. Anybody want to talk? Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As Chairman of the parental committee in charge of preparing this law for plenary decision, I would point out that this law, unfortunately, has already been put off so many times that it makes sense to include it. The mother’s working body, however, took a virtually morning to prepare a quality marriage. Given that the government has forwarded the necessary amendment, I am also convinced that the law will be ready for decision tomorrow at the plenary session. Therefore, I ask you to keep the law as a point on the agenda of this reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Also on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we are committed to keeping this law on the agenda. The law is important, if not because it is important, or because it is important because of the Houses, it is also important because of some other corrections, which I think the Government must take into account if it wants to adopt European standards, but not because of European Union standards, but because of European health and health standards. I certainly do not agree that the government is trying to get this law out of the process in every possible or impossible way. In fact, it is a compulsion by the government to do what is only for her and only for her. I don't think we can agree to that kind of thing. If democracy in Slovenia is to the extent that only what Mr Drnovšek and several of his ministers decide is to be determined and done, I think we should try to maintain at least the basic standard of democracy in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	I can say that this comment was not in place, Comrade Jelinčič. I told you in the introduction it was a college arrangement. It was explained that the Committee could carry out this hearing tomorrow. The National Assembly will decide whether the item remains on the agenda or not. Any other parliamentary groups would like to clarify their position? My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	Mr President, I am sorry that you have not said much more about how the College was meeting, because at this meeting of the College we were all aware of the fact that the presidents of the working bodies knew when things were going to happen, but they followed the old practice of subsequent reference. So I ask that we stick to the agreement and also, of course, to our rules first. Our Group of Members will vote against, and will vote in favour of the withdrawal. So, if there are no conditions under our Rules of Procedure to deal with it, then we'll be against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	The business conditions are met and we are also discussing them. Anyone else want to explain their views? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore voting on the proposal to withdraw the amendment and supplementation bill. We're voting. 82 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 13, 60 against them. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 60.]] I note that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act remains on the agenda of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. We will also decide on a proposal to withdraw the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and the Procedures for Artificial Fertility with Biomedical Assistance. It's the same question. You want a word? Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This law also experienced a similar fate as the forerunner. The mother's working body will complete the law tomorrow. However, to convene a meeting of the committee tomorrow, the main reason is that we want to have enough time and that the members of the committee have had time, given the amendments tabled by the government, the government has made an effort to prepare for the meeting. So tomorrow, in this context, on the committee, we will draw up a law that the National Assembly will be able to decide entirely in accordance with the rules of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič and the chairman of the committee. My friend Jelinčič wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this case, I am in favour of paragraph 27, which is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for artificial insemination with biomedical assistance, to be withdrawn from the agenda for one simple reason. There is a rapid procedure and a rapid procedure in such important matters, but there is no way. The fact is, in the law as it is now, we are talking about the treatment of infertility. In the amendments to the law, as proposed, we are no longer talking about the treatment of infertility, but about ensuring fertility or buying or selling embryos, if I am making it a little easier. And I think in this regard, it would be necessary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	At least a little more debate and that is why I am in favour of this law withdrawing from the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	I'm asking for peace in the hall. No substantive debate shall be allowed in explanation of vote. Anyone else want to explain their position? I guess not. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw the bill amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and artificial fertilisation procedures with biomedical assistance. We're voting. There are 84 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 25 votes in favour, against 43 colleagues and colleagues. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and artificial fertilisation procedures with biomedical assistance remains on the agenda or for the time being in the draft agenda. Anybody else want to discuss withdrawals? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to proposals to expand the agenda. I haven't received any suggestions so far. I don't see anyone who wants to say a word. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on censuses, households and housing in the Republic of Slovenia in 2001 and proposes to the assembly to adopt it quickly. Does the government want a word? Can you please make sure that our mobile phones don't disturb us during the debate? Thank you very much. I ask again, does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups. They don't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 61 Members supported the proposal, no one opposed it. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on customs measures in respect of infringements of intellectual property rights for consideration by the assembly and proposes to the assembly to adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? It's not like that. Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 81 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The vote was 51 and 3 were against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a telecommunications law for consideration by the assembly and proposes to the assembly to adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Please, colleague Peca, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	According to the Minister, Dr. Paul Ganttar, in this case, in the case of the telecommunications law, it is essential to change the meaning of the word telecommunications itself. It is a major change in ownership, performance and organisation. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose to adopt or adopt legislation in accordance with the normal procedure and to include in its basic provisions a basic topic that has been raised on the parental committee, these are provisions referring to the return of deposits. Somehow a consensus was reached among the representatives of the ruling coalition in this National Assembly to devote six months to this. Based on the current practice of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we do not believe this. Given that, in the case of this law, namely, the Telecommunications Act, customers play an essential role and not the individual lobby that you are trying to draw primarily from the government in this case and, in the domestic sense, enrich, we are proposing that this law, which I stress once again, substantially changes the area so far, should be treated in accordance with a regular, normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Any other parliamentary groups would like to clarify their position? [[No, no, ……]] Does he want a representative of the government? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the government does not support this proposal. The government wants and proposes a quick procedure. I would like to highlight two things in particular. For the first time, the return of the cartridges is linked to the privatisation process of Telekom, but not to the systemic regulation of the telecommunications sector. Secondly, the Government takes note of and does not oppose the amendment of the committee which proposed in a special article to regulate this issue by special law and imposes on the Government six months to prepare such a law by submitting a national assembly. Thus, it is a political and also legal obligation for these return on investments to be properly regulated. At the same time, I would like to point out, honourable Members and Members, that with intensive work, including on the Committee on the Economy, we have managed to harmonise the majority, i.e. all amendments, that there are no more questions and dilemmas and that the law is prepared in the way that is necessary for the procedure in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting! There are 82 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal supported 49, 23 against. [[The vote was 82.]] [[There were 23 votes against.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on the height of the child supplement and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want a mother's working body, which supports the adoption of the bill on a rapid basis? He doesn't want to.) Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? I give my word to the parliamentary groups. Would anyone like to present the views of the parliamentary groups? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present at the Chamber. 64 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of such a proposal, one opposed it. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Commissioner Ciril Pucko submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the bill's proposer want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 82 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 37 supported them, 25 opposed them. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Dr Andrey Bajuk, tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on auditing and proposed to the assembly to adopt it quickly. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want to speak for the law? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 83 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 54 supported them, 3 opposed him. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Mr Jelko Kacin and her colleague, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for artificial fertilisation with biomedical assistance. They propose to the assembly that it be adopted in a swift manner. Any of the candidates want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body has not been defined until this proposal. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on this proposal. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 82 colleagues and colleagues present. 49 supported the proposal and 15 opposed it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and work of ministries. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body was not defined until the proposal. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 82 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal supported 44 and 13 opposed him. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] The proposal was adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a restrictive measure law for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports such a proposal. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 81 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 60 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of the proposal and 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Slovenian railways, a share company on loans for the financing of certain parts of the construction and maintenance of the track fund of the Slovenian public railway infrastructure. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body was not defined until the proposal. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] He does. Please, colleague Jelinčič, Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think it makes sense for this law to be dealt with quickly because it will be necessary for Slovenian railways to clear up a whole range of strange things so that I won't use another term, a strange way of using financial resources so far. There will probably be a need to request further opinions from some specific institutions in the debate, so I suggest that we do not adopt the law quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Does he want another word from one of the MPs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the government representative want to further explain his position? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 82 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal supported 56, 13 voted against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand he's been accepted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a shorter procedure. The Group of Members, with first-signed colleague Dusan Vukko, tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Triglav National Park. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the representative want a word from the motioner? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate and, before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Once again, I would like to point out that the use of mobile phones during the session is not allowed. 82 colleagues and colleagues voted. 59 supported them, 2 opposed him. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[There were two votes against.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Before voting, I would like to draw your attention to the agenda of this meeting that the assembly at its third session decided that the draft media law, thirdly, should be considered, the EPA 811 / II should be included in the meeting of the assembly on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission, amendments to the draft law may be tabled until the beginning of the consideration of this bill at the meeting of the assembly. I propose that we adopt the agenda that you have adopted with reference and with amendments and additions adopted. This is what we are voting on. There are 81 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. Fifty Members and Members voted for the agenda. Four opposed him. [[The vote was 50.]] [[The opposition was voted against by 4.]] I take it that the agenda for the 4th meeting of the assembly has been adopted. Allow me to inform you that we will resume the meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m. and that we will continue it in accordance with the agreement of the College by electing the Vice-President of the National Assembly. It's 2:30. I propose that we continue the meeting with the parliamentary initiatives and issues. The first three will be answered by the Prime Minister 15 minutes to 3 p.m. at 2.45 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	It's 15 minutes before 15. We continue with the agenda as we have just adopted it. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is on the question and wake the delegation and the delegates of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the first three questions of representatives of opposition parties will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, whom I also welcome along with the ministerial team in the National Assembly. The first question will be asked by colleague Alojz Peterle, behind him by his colleague, Victory Jelinčič and then by colleague Janez Janša. My friend Lois Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers. I have two parliamentary offices. One in Trebnje, in the district where I was elected, one in the New Town, where no one was elected in two circuits thanks to our wonderful electoral law. Why am I talking about both offices? Because people in both offices are talking to me about the same problems in this country. The main issues of the electorate and the electorate concern the injustices committed by the State itself to corruption and the third part are job requests. There's more talk about corruption. What do people say? That there's no way out without a blue envelope. That laws apply to rulings and their supporters somewhat differently than to others. Getting that or that license faster makes it easier if you're on the right side. And if they find someone with a finger in a marmalade, after a long process, something rarely happens. But it could happen to the one who warned the thief. The human voice says it's easier for the person who steals something than the person who reported the theft. Here I am especially thinking about the tax line, which will be discussed in a short time. These people, who point to this apparently pressing problem of our country, to corruption, do not know what the institution of the world of Europe, entitled Greece, is. Interestingly, though, their findings, as well as their experiences, are quite consistent with what he said, as Greece himself estimated. I think what this group or this Grammy found is very worrying about us. Now, what we know at home, we have received at least some kind of certificate from outside and there we find that as a country, as regards the fight against corruption, we are inadequately prepared not to have a strategy, not the coordination of state authorities on this issue, that it is insufficiently organised by the police. We give more officers for foreign purposes than for one of the key disasters of this country. Then they say the role of prosecutors is too weak. After that, state officials, including Members, as far as corruption is concerned, are too protected. Mr President, you are the Prime Minister in Slovenia for the fourth time. This situation, in my view, is highly worrying and is not an honor to the State as a whole, not to the Government. It is incomprehensible that the government, which declares itself to be European standards, is so casually, so late and insensitively addressing this difficult problem. I would like to know, Mr President, given that there have been no serious reports since the meeting last week, what the government has decided about this, what it has actually decided and why such a delay has occurred, because the problem is clearly between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Your Honor. Corruption is a phenomenon that is present everywhere in the world, practically in all countries and nowhere can it be said that it is not there. Of course, standards or levels of corruption are different from country to country, but the problem is never completely solved in any country, literally. In this report you are talking about, some have also warned about Slovenia, while also finding that Slovenia is not very problematic about this issue and that, of course, the vast majority of countries around the world are more problematic in different assessments. Of course, I am not saying this to try to make it look like, if, in Slovenia, there is no such issue. On the contrary. But let's be realistic, let's be objective. We know that this is also true in our country. We know that this is a serious danger, but of course, let us not overemphasize our grades. In the estimates, so far known international assessments, Slovenia is still at least subject to this phenomenon among all Central European and Eastern European countries. But we do know that these phenomena do not spare you the most advanced Western democracies. Let us look around and see what is happening now in France, Germany or in many other European countries. So the problem can always be present practically at any level of democracy or also tradition. The government has addressed these issues and has adopted some guidelines. It wants to set up or adopt a decision to set up a coordination commission in which representatives of different bodies will be present, ministries facing this phenomenon in their areas, and that they will try to coordinate their work and also propose appropriate changes, corrections, legislation, and that they also prepare the basis for setting up a Anti-Corruption Office, which would be a permanent institutional solution to coordinate different practices, experiences and initiate proposals and also alert both state authorities and the general public to what these problems need to be done, where these problems need to be done. In short, I would like to assure you, of course, that I share your concern and willingness to do everything possible in Slovenia to face corruption. I do not mean to underestimate these phenomena, we treat them with all seriousness. And I also want to set up a common front on this issue, a partnership to fight these phenomena. We can't let them go, we can't tolerate them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through them, we can't go through In this respect, I join you in saying that no word is too much and no warning is too much, and this question is not too much for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much. My friend Peterle wants to ask you an additional question. Comrade Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to say that I was very scared because the beginning looked like, "they're stealing everywhere, and we're gonna be here for a while." Well, that would be shocking if you stayed on top of it. However, I fear that the government's position has been essentially too long, because the Prime Minister, I am sorry, has not answered the second part of my question, why such a delay, why the government has only responded to the Council of Europe's warning, why it has not reacted before, because of course this matter exists. And what is the essence of the message of the Council of Europe or its Commission? That we do not have the means to detect and fight corruption. I remember a country where it wasn't written about suicides, and because it wasn't written, it was considered that there were no suicides. And I'm not talking about this country. You know it well. Here it is clear to me that if there are no tools, corruption will not be detected, except to do something against it. Mr President, I regret your words, 'we will face'; we have all you want, we need measures, not confrontations, I don't want to look corruption in the eye, I wish it wasn't. And there's something else I'd like to say. My question is this. You said at the end, "Common Front." Do the measures for the new institutions, for the new laws, for the new ones, not know what, the government predicted the opposition's participation? How many places in a supervisory body or, I don't know, what body did you anticipate for the opposition? I guarantee that he will be a very effective associate in this company.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond further, Prime Minister? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	For a little while. There is no delay in that sense. There is no warning from the Council of Europe; there is not yet a report from the Council of Europe. Our activities run independently of this and, of course, it is not the start of such efforts in these last conclusions, the proposals of the government, but the continuation of some ongoing activities that have, after all, produced results, as our police authorities, the law enforcement authorities, have also achieved some results in this direction and we expect them to continue in the future and, of course, we fully support them in their efforts. As regards, of course, the involvement of the opposition in all bodies, where, of course, political cooperation is meaningful, such an initiative is very welcome and must be taken into account. I would certainly not share the view that we are underestimating or lagging behind this issue in many areas. I repeat, however, efforts are under way and we must not be unjust to the people who are doing this and who are drawing attention to these issues. Of course, in all our activities, we will try to upgrade their efforts to ensure that the result is as good as possible. Your contribution, of course, will be very welcome, especially if it is not used primarily in the context of some dialogue between the opposition and the government and the gathering of the political points set out in this title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give my word to my colleague, Victory Jelinčič. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable Prime Minister. The disappearance, loss and destruction of unpleasant documentation seems to have become a political constant in Slovenia. More and more, fewer and fewer documents remain and more disappear even though they used to be. There is also increasing pressure or pressure, and it is likely that in the short term, when various investigative committees are set up, they will be pressured not to continue their work in order to limit their work or focus on other areas. And I'm not going to talk about the disappearance of a document about the bombing under my car, but I'm going to turn to the fact that about a kilometer of archive has disappeared in Slovenia. Comprehensive archive on the Slovenian population from World War II to 1964 onwards. It is statistics on the Slovenian population, which is a register of the permanent population of Slovenia, as I have already said, from the end of World War II to 1964. The archive was stored at the Ministry of the Interior, one copy of the archive, another copy of the archive at the Bureau of Statistics. From both ends, this archive disappeared to an unknown location. Is it really possible that archives are uncontrollably cleaned in Slovenia? Does the government have a word here? Is the government doing this to hide the unpleasant facts? Or is it by order of the Croats that he does this? Just in the case of Croatia, in the case of the Slovenian territories occupied today by Croatia, it is very important that we have these archives, which we no longer have. Mr President, I would like to ask you to tell me if you are aware of the matter, if you have already begun to deal with the matter and what you intend to do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Your Honor. Still, I'm going to hold off on your insinuation for a little while so that some government records are disappearing. They don't disappear, and it's just insinuation and nothing else. The minutes you have already discussed have shown that they do not exist in our records, and the practice of the government is not and has not been addressed by the government. These are criminal prosecutions. The government can be informed, as can the public through the media, about these issues, but of course the government does not treat and treat such things according to its duty. But as for this archival issue, I must say this is the first time I've heard of it. We can also continue to refer this issue to the Minister of the Interior, who will probably also have to check whether any of what you have said is true or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Mr Prime Minister, colleague Jelinčič wishes to ask you an additional question. You have the floor, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I would answer that insinuation with a question. That is said, Mr Trocha does not exist at the moment. Does this mean that Mr. Troch has never been here? Regarding the archive: this was published in the daily newspaper. And if the Slovenian government does not read the daily newspaper, it is so much worse for the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Would you like to make further clarifications, Prime Minister? [[No, no, ……]] The next question will be asked by colleague Janez Janš. You have the floor, Comrade Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In mid-November last year, this National Assembly voted in favour of the Prime Minister. At that time, a number of parliamentary groups suggested that we be given a meeting where we decided to do so, including the government's programme, which was then in the first stage. As a programme of this government, we have been awarded a coalition treaty, very largely, to all Members. The accompanying letter states that these are the programming designs of the government that the government will pursue. In these programming designs, there were some very optimistic forecasts, for which we were all happy at the time, that they were in this text and we expected the government to insist. One of these optimistic forecasts was that the government would do everything and that it would present such a budget and other measures so that the annual inflation would be 4.5% in 2001. After a few months, the same government came to the National Assembly with a draft budget with public-financial forecasts for this year. Just a few months after the presentation of this first programme, one of the key macroeconomic foundations for this year has been changed. When he presented himself here at the previous budget meeting, it was said that we can expect almost 8% of inflation for this year. I ask the Prime Minister: "What happened to the Slovenian economy and public finances at that time, that we should have such a derogation within a few months?" The second question also concerns the budget submitted and the deviation of what has been submitted by what has not only been promised in the government programme; but also what has been adopted in the law on coherent regional development. In 1999, the National Assembly adopted a long-awaited and long-adopted law on the promotion of coherent or more coherent regional development. Article 19 of this Act states that each year it is necessary to devote at least 1% of gross domestic product for these purposes, it is said, for more consistent regional development. In this year's budget, all funds for this purpose are about 1/4%. The draft budget, or the sum of funds, deviates several times from what should not only be in line with the government's coalition contract, which is also very much in favour of more coherent regional development, but is also a commitment to the law that this national assembly has long adopted and which is very necessary in this country. But you probably all agree with me that we don't need laws that aren't being enforced. We agree that it is necessary to save, but saving at the point, in the area of more coherent development, is not a long-term savings. This can be an increase in centralism and the promotion of the negative consequences of this phenomenon. I ask you on what basis the government has concluded that this 19th section of the Act should be violated and has only proposed 1/4 of the funds to be used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	Your Honor! As far as inflation is concerned, last year's coalition contract, as a programme, has, of course, tended to make inflation as low as possible and the government is trying to keep inflation as low as possible. Although I must point out that this is not a direct task of the government to combat inflation, the government is, of course, pursuing and must pursue several other objectives, and it is the central bank's primary task to deal with inflation. The data on which the budget is based, that is 7.8%, is derived from analyses or the Office for Macroeconomic Studies and on this basis a budget has been drawn up. My opinion is that real inflation should be below 7.8% this year. Of course, I can only rely on my assessment, which can only be subjective. To a large extent, inflation will depend on our efforts to maintain macroeconomic stability, after all, through the budget and through various measures of state policy, on the central bank, how it will manage monetary policy and, to a large extent, on external influences, external factors. Let me just say two. These are the effects of currency changes, a strong dollar compared to the euro and also tolar in last year's year was a major factor in higher inflation, as well as higher prices of oil fuels in global markets. Together, they represented a third higher inflation in last year. If these external movements, which are, of course, completely beyond our influence, are more favourable this year or have even turned in a completely different direction, then inflation may be significantly lower at the end than the one envisaged by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis in its assessment. However, as I say, these factors are not within our range and our influence. However, it is certainly my orientation, as well as the government's plan, that we gradually reduce inflation and that we come at a completely comparable rate to the Europeans during this term. We know that we have gradually reduced inflation over the past few years, that we have already been at a slightly lower level than today, but the introduction of value added tax has brought certain effects and then external factors. Thus, there has been a temporary halt to declining trends. Our aim is to continue with a policy that will further reduce inflation to the very comparable levels of the European monetary union over the next two, three years, which could be called As far as the second question is concerned, this is regional development. Of course, when preparing its budget, the government has taken into account the facts, to a large extent transferred spending, finally fixed budget determination and has tried to focus the rest on the many, perhaps too many priorities that we have already set and selected in this country. Of course, we do not want to finance them in a deficit, so we have decided and proposed a budget where the deficit does not exceed 1%, about 1% of the social product. In this context, regional development is also a priority, where we are just establishing institutions as well as the practice of the European Union and where we will gradually be able to set up the objectives that we have in this area, especially since regional development or regional development financing will become a major form of financing or assistance to the economy, once there are no other possible interventions in line with European Union policy. However, this year's budget is a transitional budget in this respect and enables gradual adaptation, on the one hand, of reality, and on the other hand our priorities for these realities as well as coordination between these priorities. This work is now taking place in the National Assembly and we will try to conclude it together in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	Would you like to ask an additional question? Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	I thank the Prime Minister for this part of the response, although he has not been quite precise. We did not know what had happened at that time, and indeed, by the time the coalition agreement had been adopted, which had been presented as the new government's programming design, by the time the budget was drawn up, had changed so dramatically that the inflation forecast had changed so much as it was then presented in the budget. However, since I think there is no one in this Chamber who would not like to make the initial announcement, and given that the Prime Minister has now relativised the power of the government to achieve this goal, I will still read what the coalition has written in this Treaty itself, so that it will refresh the memory and that the government may be more committed to the goal it has set itself. It says on page 46: "The key economic policy objectives in 2001 are: 4 to 5% economic growth, which will also increase employment growth and the general well-being of the population, and reduce the average annual inflation to around 4.5%." This is a goal for which the opposition would also like to see the government not withdraw from it and perhaps try a little more to prepare the budget and some other measures to be proposed. As I say, we strongly support this objective rather than the one presented at the last meeting when the budget is submitted. With regard to coherent regional development, let me add to what I said earlier, the fact that action in this direction is more consistent with the development of Slovenia, also strongly supported by the European Union. In this quarter of the percentage of funds, a quarter of the gross domestic product of funds to be allocated for these purposes this year are also the funds of the Phare programme, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] and it is difficult to say in this regard that this is a transitional budget, because the law on coherent regional development itself has set a transitional period. [[...]] This transitional period was last year when only half a percentage of gross domestic product was to be earmarked for this purpose and 1% is foreseen for this year. Therefore, it will be necessary to agree in this country whether we are enacting laws in order to be valid or to be valid if the government so decides, or not to be in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Comrade Janš, time's up. Thank you very much for your additional question. Would you like to give an additional explanation, Prime Minister? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	As far as inflation is concerned, I would say: let's wait until the end of the year for what real inflation will be, and then let's assess the results, so not the intent, not the transient current assessment, but then the actual results. I expect and hope that this inflation will be lower than this professional forecast and evaluation, but I repeat, to a large extent it will depend on external factors, which we hope will benefit us or go towards lower inflation. As far as the second goal is concerned. We expect the economic growth that we announced at that time to be achieved. This is also a key or more important goal from the government's point of view, so to speak, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] As far as possible, sustainable economic growth, because we know that we could reduce inflation in the short term, i.e. also through tight monetary policy, but this could have a negative impact on economic growth and on the general balance in our country. [[...]] That is how I hope that we will succeed, in agreement with both different policies, fiscal and monetary, and hopefully also external factors to achieve the best possible goals, both in growth and inflation. As for regional development or this percentage and laws. I mean, to me, there is a law in the budget that will decide what proportions of spending or what proportion of resources will go into each area, and in this law, it is, in the end, that desire and reality will be faced, that is, what we can actually do this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Thus, in accordance with the amended Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure, we have carried out that part of the debate on this item of the agenda, which is also attended by the Prime Minister. He answers the first three questions from the opposition. I thank the Prime Minister for his cooperation. We continue with questions from Members and Members to Ministers or Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to read it. First, she will ask a question from colleague Peter Levič, followed by colleague Maria Possonec, colleague Bojan Kontič, colleague Lydia Majnik and colleague Franci Rokavec. First, I give my word to my colleague, Petr Levich. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. Question for Mr Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Slovenia is striving to join the European Union, which is one of the priorities of the current government. The question is: When, under what conditions, and at what price. The European Union should be based on four pillars: free movement of goods, services, capital and labour. On the occasion of the visit of the Foreign Minister of Germany, Mr Fischer, we have heard that the European Union envisages a seven-year transitional period for the free movement of labour, for new members, including Slovenia. This means that one of the basic foundations of the damage to Slovenia is being undermined. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you. How, in what way will the government or the ministry address this threat? This is a problem for all generations to come and for seven years after the entry into the European Union, which will be in a subordinate position against the people of the European Union. I ask you whether the government will continue to yield to ultimatums and unfounded demands, or whether it will set a limit at which it will not continue to give in, allowing it to represent its position in Slovenia: the European Union does, but not at any price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Rupel. You have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	I would like to answer this question to the honourable Member in terms of what I know and what is true. First of all, it should correct that, of course, the Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Fischer, did not place Slovenia on his visit to any ultimatums and no requirements, but informed the Slovenian Government or the Foreign Minister of the problem which the Federal Republic of Germany has in the light of the envisaged enlargement of the European Union, particularly as regards a country, its neighbour Poland, which they assume will in fact represent a new situation at the time of entry into the European Union in terms of crossing the cheaper labour force into the German border. During a transitional period, which requires the free movement of persons or labour, the debate in the European Union is quite lively. It is true that Germany, and to some extent Austria, also advocate such a system and one such solution, which would be quite close to what the Member of Parliament has said or is in the plans of these governments. However, the European Commission has recently drawn up positions containing five different scenarios for solving this problem of free movement of labour, and as far as I know, they are the worst and most liberal scenario in some way at the moment, and in fact the worst scenario is the one mentioned by the Member. After our talks, including in Austria, I would conclude that after all there would be solutions that would be significantly different from those that threaten or are predicted by the Federal Republic of Germany. It appears that the European Union will have a flexible and different approach to candidates, especially those with no specific problems, as regards the movement or some increased movement of labour. We hope that this scenario, which was the subject of Minister Fischer's visit, will not be realized and that it will actually be realized or that a different scenario will actually apply that is closer to what Slovenia expects. Of course, at every opportunity, we explained to our associates what our policy is or what our views on the problem are. Slovenia is not a country of emigration, but it is a land of immigration. As you know, there are around 11,000 people living across our western border, and of course there are no numbers in European situations. The fact is that there are three times as many people across our eastern or southern borders every day, and in fact, Slovenia is, as far as the problem you have triggered or discussed is concerned, a relatively benign article or non-problem country. Otherwise, I would point out that it is necessary to wait for the final positions of the European Union, including the Federal Republic of Germany. Unfortunately, so is we, and also in the Federal Republic of Germany, that certain issues have their own significance and reflection in internal policy. The fear of a cheap labour force from the neighbouring country of Poland is very widespread in Germany and represents a great burden or fear for the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Federal Republic of Germany will have elections in 2002 and I expect that until election time this will be a big topic and then a slightly smaller topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to my colleague Maria Pozsonec. Please, colleague Pozson.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. All present and welcome. I am asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the question, because I believe that the problem is so great that the government and its President, Dr Janez Drnovšek, must be involved in its resolution. We are talking about the situation of Lendava Nafta and through it about the social, economic conditions of the region near Mura. The problem of Lendu oil has existed for a long time, even too long. The owners, Petrol and the state, are not good masters. As the owner, it should ensure that their property works well, does business with profits and thus contributes to the well-being of the region and of the whole of Slovenia, and ultimately provides a person with a life worth living for the workers and their families. To this end, the recapitalisation of old debts arising from policy measures in the past should be ensured, but not demanded that the company and its employees themselves bear the consequences of wrong decisions that they could not have affected at all. It is also illusional to expect that this problem will solve itself, as such debts cannot be dealt with consistently. Nor were there serious attempts to find a third partner, despite the fact that the national programme foresees its own refinery, Leland Oil has been left to play for six years. Substitute programmes are not being implemented. Last year, no budget support of SIT 400 million was implemented. Predicted and promised storage facilities are being built in another part of Slovenia and could also be listed. All of this causes a major economic stalemate in the province. Oil was an incubator of development. Its scholarships have become a human potential for other sectors of the economy. We're out of staff scholarships, high school doesn't have students, and carriers are out of work. Those rare, university-educated people don't even get a job as interns. Young people leave home every day - mainly because of the fact that we cannot wait any longer. And that's how we lose generations in a highly demographically endangered area. I say with a heavy heart, but Lendava is becoming a dead place. The state can't care about all of this because the province of Mura is also part of Slovenia, and the government is responsible for the situation. That is why I call on the government, as one of the oil lords and as responsible for rural development, to end this agony and do everything in its power to save the oil and the region around Mura. I would ask for a clear answer, so when and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much, colleague of the Possonians. Madam Minister, Dr. Petrinov, you have the floor. You can turn off your colleague Pozsončeva - microphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Mrs Pozsoncheva! I think we discussed this issue together on 14.3., where representatives of the Nafte Lendava administration were present, you too were present. We also talked to the biggest owner that day, Petrol, and we're talking about how to solve this problem. Of course, they're familiar with this, so I'm surprised that - in a way, I'm surprised at this performance today. As far as this recapitalisation of 400 million, as you know last year, has not been implemented, we cannot implement it at all this year before the adoption of the budget. But it is still a fundamental problem, of course, the issue of this, I would say, the financial recovery of Nafte Lendava, and of course we are discussing this issue of great recapitalisation. And as you know, the two most powerful owners of this still haven't come to a complete conclusion. As for the refinery itself, at this meeting we also discussed the possibility that Team Mark would invest, I mean, take over the refinery and drive it. At this meeting, we have also agreed that this company will offer us a very clear offer. I'm afraid we haven't accepted this offer yet, and I can't answer that. Otherwise, I can tell you that we are facing this problem and that we expect to resolve these issues as soon as possible. There are still certain questions that are now being raised by the Bank of Zagreb and, in short, the problems are complicated enough and we deal with them every week.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Possoncheva, colleague of Possončeva [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. And I think it's no wonder that I asked this question because we have spoken to Mr Dragan on this subject and about the same content and in order with all the ministers who were there. I said that because of the young people leaving the room every day, we can no longer agree with this situation and the state of "status quo" because once Petrol is not for anything to happen, the second time the government does not, one points to the other and it goes on for years and years. Young people can no longer suffer this if we forget our pride, and our people are actually living there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain further, Madam Secretary? [[No, no, ……]] Before we proceed and give the floor to my colleague Kontić, I would ask everyone to listen to our colleagues and colleagues without discussion, because we are disturbing them. My friend Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! My question of mission consists of two parts and is intended for the Minister of Health. In the previous composition of the National Assembly, we adopted the National Health Programme of the Republic of Slovenia entitled "Health for all until the year 2000". In the reception process, questions were repeatedly raised about the award of concessions in the public health network, i.e. on the so-called private health sector. The award of concessions - I will limit myself to the primary level under the jurisdiction of the municipalities - is unacceptable and very different from the individual municipality to the municipality. Personally, I think that the correct way to grant concessions would be to first identify the need for these services, then tender the concession and, by choice, grant the concession between the tenderers. Now the practice is different; the doctor finds that he meets all the conditions, usually builds and equips an office outside the health centres and asks the municipality for concession. In the programme we have adopted, we have written that health care homes retain the content of the work imposed on them by law to the extent that it allows for a successful operation. The municipalities, as founders of health homes, must be aware that the granting of concessions must not jeopardise the existence of a healthcare home, as defined in Article 7 of the Health Act, which sets out the extent of basic health activities. In order to coordinate health activities in the public health service network and to effectively regulate the common tasks of public health institutions and concessionaires, holy public health services as a consultative body of the founder of the public health institution or concidents will need to be established in several municipalities or regions. It is also among the tasks of this Council to consider proposals for the award of concessions or for the execution of tenders. I ask the ministers when the aforementioned public health services councils will be established and how the local communities, in this case the municipalities, should act until then. My second question is also related to the national programme. I am asking the Minister when the Health Care Unit will be established in Velenj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	Dear Members and Members! Member of the Commission, Mr Kontic, thank you in particular for the first question. I could not agree more with your findings that in the area of awarding concessions, that is, granting access to the public network to doctors who work in a private way, we do not actually have some things arranged and in fact we do not have this - all the time of this country's existence or at least as long as this system is going on. The Ministry of Health in the current constitution notes that there are some sub-legislative acts missing that would systematically address the issue of awarding concessions, including this fundamental question of the relationship between doctors in the public sector and private doctors working in the public network. We have answers to this, including the content of your question, a few helpful suggestions that we also know from the outset. We want the regulations and other necessary acts in this ministry, this is one of our priorities, to prepare within one to two months at the latest, and this should be the basis for what I will not repeat behind you - even in this government's programme it is clear that it wants to maintain the principle of functioning of health homes and that, of course, doctors working with concessions must adopt the concept of operation and the maintenance of those activities that have been carried out so far by healthcare homes and which are described in the national programme. So in short, I think that not only will we get theoretical answers at the latest in the first half of the year, but we will also start to introduce better practice in awarding or fixing these relationships and awarding concessions. The second question on certain financial activities: either the human resources needs, the spatial, developmental needs in Velenja, which are set out in the national programme "Health for all until 2004" would be answered as follows. The Ministry of Health respects the laws, resolutions, programmes adopted by this Parliament in this or it has adopted them in the previous constitution. Only on the basis of the existing legal bases should this ministry perform three times in this year's budget, with which it can be a real computer and for which, also with your help, it will fight in the coming weeks of this year's budget. We have found that if we are to achieve these tasks, the priorities are needed because the money is not enough and the unit you are mentioning fell out of the priorities this year. Together with other units foreseen by the programme - there are also units of the Health Care Institute for Posavje, Zasavje, Notranjska and Ptuj. When we connected with Velenje’s Department of Health Care, he replied that Velenje also belonged to his area. They say that the problems - not without them, but that they are being adequately solved, that they are currently successfully carrying out their tasks in all the field and that, of course, they are logically considering the possibility of establishing their own unit in Velenj, where three or four workers are to work. I don't think there's any financial capacity for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would the Member like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to my colleague Lydia Majnik, my colleague Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Biszak. A problem that concerns a large number of young people who graduate from law school. In order to complete the right approxa annually in Slovenia. 400 students. Many of them would also like to take a judicial exam. The waiting time for the volunteer exam is 5 years in Maribor and courts belonging to Maribor, in Ljubljana there is a waiting time for the volunteer internship for 7 years. There is a mandatory one-year practice in court and they can do it elsewhere for a year. For regular complaints is a waiting period of 10 years. I wonder whether the Ministry is preparing any measures this year to solve this problem, and whether it will eventually change the law on traineeships for the conduct of a judicial examination, because it is only too long to wait 7 or 10 years, while some already have a job provided, I think it is only too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Minister Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you so much for asking. Good-bye, everybody! We are, of course, very well aware of the problems of conducting a legal examination in the Ministry. I have already worked on this to the extent that we have identified the possibilities of the courts to increase the number of traineeships in the courts. Here is the position of at least some courts, so far I will not argue to the whole court that the capacity for a larger number of trainees is virtually lacking, both for spatial reasons and in view of the burden of employees in courts or judges. Even otherwise: there are ideas in the judiciary to fully reform the state's legal exam in this direction in order to actually train the courts only for the purposes of judicial service, not for other types of legal profession. So, that's quite enough, I would say, a extreme position that requires or points to a complete reform, a complete transformation of the current concept of the legal state exam. With such a wide variety of views, along with both limited capacity to train for the legal examination, I have already ordered within the Ministry a thorough analysis to begin, in which direction we could look for solutions to this problem. Now either - that is not yet decided by this direction or concept; that is, whether we should go into a comprehensive reform of the concept of the legal state exam itself or reform this concept only to the extent that we allow different other forms of traineeship to be carried out, which would then also allow such a concept to then allow more candidates to do so - within that possible scope of traineeship in the courts. So these are the options that are currently in - I'd say - checking. In this direction we will be looking for solutions, and I am counting on at least this year to come up with a concept whereby this problem, which I once again say we are aware of and that it is serious and problematic to solve it then. That's all I can answer right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to ask an additional question, colleague? [[No, no, ……]] Before I give the floor to my next colleague, Franz Rokavac, let me say that he will be followed by colleagues Samo Bevk, Janez Drobnič, Saša Pece, Igor Štemberger and colleague Franz Čebulj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of the Chamber of Ministers. I ask the Minister of Economy, Dr Teo Petrin, about the amendment of the rules on trade, on business hours. Indeed, we have observed that this change is a drastic interference in the rights or rights of employees in trade. And I ask: why was this regulation published and published without agreement with the social partners? Secondly: why was the so-called study of the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Mencinger, not taken into account, where he wrote that working and opening hours in the European Union are a matter of social partners and so will be in Slovenia. For I believe that the revision of the rules is contrary to the agreement with the social partners, even in contravention of the European Charter on Social Protection and is not in line with practice in the European Union. On the basis of all the following, the proposed amendment to the Regulation is based on the establishment of a slave trade order. I expect, however, from the Ministry, from the Minister, as well as from the Government, that the proposed and published rules should be withdrawn as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	Madam Minister, slavery is prohibited under the Constitution, I would like to comment on that, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. In fact, I am very pleased that you set it up, because of the fact that there are two things that need to be separated of course: one thing is the social security of employees and the other is working time. The issue of the trade operating time rule is - I mean, the basis for this regulation is the trade law, while the social security issue is, of course, governed by other labour laws. Well, and basically, the rules don't affect the rights of employees in any way. In fact, the occasional work of some traders and traders on Sundays will be no different than the occasional Sunday work in other professions that adapt to the needs of consumers in the service sector. And these cases are large: catering, gas stations, health care, police, and the like. So what this rule, I think, now sets out or corrects is that, in fact, with this rule, we introduce into the country uniform rules of the game for the whole country. In fact, it is not possible for each province to regulate itself when companies operating in their territory can operate and when they do not. That's all this is about. There's none here - I mean, will the store, I mean, open on Sundays or how long, it's a matter of employees and administrations. If the employees disagree, of course, the management will not be able to do so. There are, of course, other options, options that we well know - we are talking about the unemployment rate in Slovenia. This also gives us the possibility, of course, that trade - or not - will also become more commutative, that it is a trade sector and that it also employs others where they can work for a certain period of time or - I think of students - as they do elsewhere in the world. I think that we need to avoid - we cannot avoid that in certain activities providing services to the consumer, we need to adapt to actually changing habits of life and that calling on the state to help stop time is simply not meaningful, as it will ultimately affect this particular economic sector and, of course, economic growth as well. So by going back to the past, we're not going to succeed, and that's why I think we're just giving - I don't think, but I'm saying that with this rule, once again, we're ensuring uniform rules of the game for the whole country, because some municipalities have already had this, and others haven't, and it's already been possible today, and the other is obviously a business time thing, then me, administration and employees. I mean, whether they're closed on Sundays or not. Nothing interferes with social security. But, yes, one more question, if you'll allow me to do research on the Economic Institute. It's obvious that everyone is quoting what's right for him. We have studied in detail the study of the Economic Institute, also this study - I think it was two years ago - states that these issues have been resolved differently in different countries and, of course, since then, if we now look at some countries that had previously - I think the possibilities of operating time on Sundays have not, even now, because of the changed customs and needs of people, of course, changed this many countries at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? Comrade Rockhead, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I need to find out that you haven't convinced me with your answers, and I think you're making a mistake. In fact, you know the relationship between employers and employees in our trades, and that workers will always be in a subordinate position here. And by doing so, in some way - employers - you have enabled them to open their doors even more to the fulfillment of their interests. We know that employers will not employ a new workforce, but will, as usual, exploit the existing labour force, at least normally. And two: changed habits of life. Madam Minister, go to the European Union, to the European capitals, and tell me in which cases of European capitals we have as much open duty as we have in our capital or in our areas. Nowhere! And I think that here is the right of the state to act and to, with its relevant regulations, also allow a large part of the family, where shopkeepers are also employed, a normal family life. In fact, I am asking the question of what interests have led you to, namely, the adoption of this Regulation and the actual adoption of such an inhumane document.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	Would you like to explain further, Madam Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Once again, what I have already said is that it is a question of the uniform rules of the games for the whole country of Slovenia and that the previous rule was not in accordance with the trade law. Then the trade law will have to be changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Next up is a colleague of Sam Bevk, followed by a mag. It's a trifle. You have the word of your colleague Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! As a result of numerous amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, this law has become completely opaque. Several articles of the Act have also repealed the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the new Public Finance Act. With all these changes, the basic concept of the law on the financing of municipalities in our country has been completely violated. In view of the high degree of centralisation in the country, this also reflected the share that we are earmarking for the financing of local communities. For comparison only, let me point out that Slovenia allocates 4.4% of gross social product for municipalities, while Scandinavian countries allocate about 30% of gross social product. At the same time, it is the biggest paradox of the funding system of municipalities to favour those Slovene municipalities or the formation of those Slovene municipalities that do not reach the legal standards for their existence. So today we have 96 municipalities in Slovenia from 192, which have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, which is the basic legal condition for the formation of a new local community. Next year will be the local elections. It is therefore essential that the government prepare a new system of funding for municipalities as soon as possible, which will not stimulate further fragmentation of Slovenian municipalities and take into account a more fair and balanced law on the financing of municipalities. In addition, I believe that it is imperative to change in particular the shares of own resources to co-finance investments in the state budget, which also favours small municipalities which do not meet the legal requirements. Further, it is necessary to re-calculate the appropriate consumption in municipalities and, in the case of transfers of powers to the municipal level, to ensure, of course, an appropriate share of the financial resources when transferring some authority to the municipality. The Ministry of Finance or Mr Mag. I ask how far it is with the preparation of the new Law on Community Financing and how it works in this area with other departments, especially the Ministry of the Interior, which covers the functioning of local self-government in our country. Thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you, Comrade Bevk. Mr. Minister Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr Member, as far as your question is concerned, let me say that the starting points for amending and supplementing the Community Financing Act are already in place and that we will start an intensive discussion in the next ten days on individual starting points for the final preparation of the law, both within the government, within the coalition and beyond in the National Assembly. From these points of view, of course, we will address all these issues and all these problems, which you have also pointed out before you have asked the question. This is a formula for calculating the necessary consumption that needs to be redefined. In particular, corrective factors need to be re-defined and individual weightings are likely to be complemented appropriately. Of course, the problem is the number of correction factors and weightings which must be relatively limited. It is possible to divide municipalities according to the number of inhabitants into a larger number of classes, which, according to the class to which they belong, would increase the sum of the corrected criteria accordingly. Due to the different financial power of individual municipalities, in our opinion it would be necessary to change the 35% share of income per municipality, which is one of the ideas that is also at the starting point and will be the basis for the continuation of the discussion in order to divide the share of income directly in the revised division of income, as is now, and part as a percentage according to the calculated average per capita in the country. Some other provisions should be amended, in particular those to which you have pointed out yourself and concern the co-financing of investments in individual municipalities, in particular because, as you yourself said, in the current system, weaker municipalities in some cases obtain relatively more financially and receive two channels of funding: on the one hand through financial compensation and, of course, through direct investment from individual ministries. Let me say, of course, that as regards the further fragmentation of Slovenian municipalities, this does not depend solely on the funding system, but, of course, also on the conditions for the establishment of municipalities defined by the rest of the system of legislation, after all, the decisions of the national assembly are here. Let me conclude, of course, that this systemic change is undoubtedly a systemic one - that we are aware that there is a need for a systemic change, that the discussion will be relatively very conflicted, but that according to which congregation the individual participating in the discussion is coming from. There is no doubt, however, that the red thread of our discussions will be the one to prepare and, of course, to put in place such a system of funding for municipalities, which will be more comparable to European arrangements. This, of course, means that municipalities that are larger, which cover a large part of the functions that have multiple tasks in common, will, of course, have to be adequately stimulated or supported in their efforts through correctional factors. This will, of course, open up a very difficult discussion between all of us, among all Members, in the case of smaller congregations and, of course, less funds for these congregations. And that, of course, is a long way from being an easy discussion. So, certain basic points are, there are also certain international comparisons being made as a basis for a better discussion and I expect that in the coming months, in the next month, two, we will come up with an appropriate solution or a proposal for a law. Then, of course, I think there will be a very large, very wide and also a conflict public debate on individual concrete solutions. But the solutions were supposed to go this way that I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Is the Member of Parliament going to set up yet? He won't. Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Little Janez.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished to the Ministry of the Assembly. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr Petrinov, about the problem of Pek. One of the leading shoe companies, Pekko, is once again on his knees. Two years ago, the country provided large funds for the rehabilitation of Pek - about 4 billion in various ways. From the report, we also learned this from the daily newspapers, which is the loss of almost 2 billion tolars in the past year. Some more than 5 billion tolars had to be recovered two years ago. A programme of financial reorganisation and forcible settlement was adopted. The Treaty somehow stipulated that the loss in 1999 would not exceed 150 million; for 2000, the forecasts were more promising that there would be no loss in 2000: in the end - such a report. It has also been stipulated that non-profitable units operating in a non-profit-making manner will cease to operate. There seems to be something wrong here. Of course, we can't blame the workers here. In view of the sound financial reorganisation, we would expect the company's management to run the company well. In particular, the company has taken care of or provided the management in particular to ensure good wages, which, of course, has pushed workers to very low wages. There is another point to be made in this regard: when financial reorganization was adopted, workers, like other creditors, also waived claims - part of claims, of course, in accordance with the law on forced bankruptcy and liquidation. Some say that shoe companies could not work, could not work in Slovenia successfully because the labour force is too expensive. That doesn't apply. We have comparative studies for Portugal, Spain, Germany to be successful. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I will. Just let me finish my thought. [[...]] The Director's statement when he resigned was, "I don't see the challenge in Beijing anymore." It would be more right to say, "I don't see any more money in Pek." And we also received a letter from the coalition parties of the municipal committees, those who were actually setting up this rehabilitation to help save the country. Ironic! One employee means 130,000 tolar a month's loss, and they got paid, I don't know, an average of maybe 70,000, 80,000. Now I'm interested in the following. Will the country as the majority owner - there, of course, I also take into account the Slovenian Development Society as the commissioner - go back to being rehabilitated? You gonna figure out where that money went? Will you report to the public prosecutor, if any, to determine whether there are criminal acts here and to request the responsibility of the administration and the supervisory board in accordance with the Financial Action Act? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer. Madam Minister Petrinova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question to which I will answer. We, of course, are now facing the problem of Pek together with the administration, the current administration of Pek, then also with another important owner, the Gorenje Bank, and, of course, we as representatives of the country, as well as the Slovenian Development Company, which, as you have already rightly stated, also carried out a restructuring project for this company under the PPP project. Well, the agreement is that we will start to save Pekko in a different way, of course, within the framework of a forced settlement, but by identifying an active owner already in this search process, who will be known to know that he is a shoemaker and that he has achieved results in this area. I could've given you so much right now. Of course, we are dealing with this, and I think that we will finalize Pekko's rescue scenario and present it to the government next Thursday, not this Thursday. As far as responsibility is concerned: of course, this is certainly a legitimate question, and this question is also being asked. First, we need to find out who was even in the control world, how they exercised control and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you. Of course, I'm interested, as soon as you mention renegotiating - creditors. Of course, they'll go back to the script: 80% write-off, 20% get-out, then in the framework of forced settlement there's also recovery of financial debts. Here the country is probably performing again with a possible 2 billion or a few banks, a few states. Where are the guarantees that the story won't happen again? I would like to know about the arguments or the instruments by which you will convince us that this story will not happen again. However, I would certainly like to know whether there may be a connection between the director of the administration, that is, the president of the administration and Dr. Schuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you. Do you want to reply further? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	Yes, yes, of course. I suggest that we personally inform you of this when we have a proposal entirely designed. I think that if I wanted to say more now than I said, it might have damaged the way we did it. However, I would like to point out that, when we decided to make a forced settlement, we also decided on the fact that there is an active owner in terms of providing real-estate rehabilitation of Pek, that is to say that production will be glass and this story will not be repeated. Since it was likely, as you can see, that according to the funds invested in this company - however painful - would of course be an alternative to bankruptcy. However, we believe, based on all the interviews we have had, that bankruptcy is still ahead of us and that we are going to rescue Pek because, as you yourself said, shoemaking can remain in Slovenia. Of course, if certain conditions are met. And on the second question, I can't give you any answers because I don't know. I don't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	Mr Sasho Peca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	Your Honors are here! Two sectoral sets of content, the first for the Ministry of Finance, Mr Ropa, regarding the privatisation of banks - one of those basic activities that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should meet with yesterday and tomorrow. That is why I really expect specific answers. That's the first one. Absorbing power, that is, domestic power, how much is estimated, what was the methodology for assessing this power and resulting from this, a percentage of foreign, say, investors. So, what are the limits we're going to put into foreign domestic banking? This is also, of course, the issue of possible branches of newly transformed Slovenian banks and in this regard the protection of domestic workers. What can happen is that the Slovenian bank becomes, in the hands of foreigners, or today, an existing bank in the hands of foreigners, just another branch that reorganizes itself and causes an additional number of unemployed. Furthermore, in what way does the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, intend to ensure transparency of implementation or activities around the privatisation of banks and only professional implementation. And the next question about which I think is very important. In what way does the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the authors of privatisation think to solve the issue of the so-called debt of the Ljubljana Bank to Croatian citizens. As a result of the diplomacy of the Republic of Slovenia, we know that this debt, based on experience, will be credited and recognised and followed out by what will be done by the Ljubljana Bank with this debt, how this debt will affect the privatisation of banks and how this privatisation will be carried out equally between the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Bank. And the last question in this series. Is it your opinion that the Ljubljana Bank, with this debt that I ask if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recognised it, is at all interesting to foreign investors? And a second set of questions for Minister Teo Petrin. From the coalition contract - arising from the 24th page - says that the coalition undertakes to "in five months' time the peds will offer sufficient assets to fill the privatisation gap." I was quoting. In view of the fact that after very indicative calculations this somehow comes on April 15, I ask you how far you are on this issue, because I think that at the end stage it is of such importance that it is right not to give my warning, but to warn yourself, or to inform Members that we will probably have to adopt a law in this regard. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	Mr. Rop has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	Members, Members, honourable Members! The honourable Member, the question you have asked, is, of course, very extensive and I do not know if it is enough time to explain everything in this regard. This is likely to be the subject of a discussion in the National Assembly, if not in the National Assembly itself, but probably in the Labour Body, but there will probably be questions, and this is perfectly normal and expected in connection with the privatisation of banks, because it is such an important project that the wider Slovenian public hears and knows everything about it and, of course, also Members. As far as the privatisation of the two banks is concerned, you are well aware that this is also envisaged under the State's financial and real property sales programme, which was attached to the 2001 State Budget. So you can all have it on you, and you can look at it, and that's, of course, what the government has already done in accordance with the Public Finance Act. Of course, the government will also present a law on the implementation of the budget, in which it will define more thoroughly and more precisely the method and the system of privatisation of state assets - not only for banks, but also for other state-owned assets - and on this list there are 27 companies or banks that you have received. The question was how we would ensure the transparency of sales and, of course, the privatisation of both banks. In accordance with the proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget, as well as already based on the existing regulation resulting from the law on budgetary resolution for 2000, procedures are laid down. Procedures shall be such that a public call for tenders published at home and abroad is envisaged in the event of such privatisations. On the basis of a public call for tenders, of course, there will be a call for tenders and in the next round there will be a call for tenders when there is a narrower selection of candidates for the purchase of banks. And, of course, in the meantime, all the necessary procedures are carried out. The most important is, of course, the so-called "new delegate", which of course means in the translation "careful review" - both personnel, financial, organisational and valuation. The official valuation of both banks, which is the basis for the negotiations and for the submission of tenders to all final tenderers selected for privatisation, in this case the two banks. Let me say that in the case of both banks, both the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank, there is also a selected financial advisor in the case of NKBM - and this has already been published - Nomura in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank Schreder Solomon. It is said that two foreign financial advisors who specialize in the privatisation of banks, and in the case of the New Bank of Credit Maribor has also been selected a valuer or performer of the so-called prudential review and then the valuation, that is KPMG, and in the case of the New Bank of Ljubljana it will be Schreder Solomon. In short, all these procedures in both banks are running. These are preparatory procedures for the implementation of privatisation itself. On the basis of the law on the implementation of the budget to be adopted in Parliament and the regulation to be laid down by the Government, the government will of course adopt a privatisation programme for both banks, a detailed privatisation programme for both banks, which will then be fully privatised in both cases. In both cases, it is agreed that the privatisation programmes are being prepared jointly, both by the Ministry of Finance and by the administration of both banks and, of course, by the supervisory councils. By including all the authorities of the two banks in the procedure itself and all the authorities will give their consent to the final proposal and the government will also make this same proposal, which will go through all the authorities of the two banks first, will give its consent. Of course, I do not see any problem in getting to know this in more detail from the parent committee, as some initiatives have already been. As I said, it is the basis for everyone, the law on the implementation of the budget, the law on public finances, the regulation on the method of sale and all the procedures that I have talked about, which will be public, which will be transparent and will be available to anyone in Slovenia at any time, if he wants to know anything about how and how privatisation in both cases has taken place. Of course, specific programmes, as I said, are not yet adopted for both banks, so it would be pointless to say what is planned in this case. We have also talked about this with the international advisors de Juan, who we have also hired through the specific technical assistance of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, who will also give further advice in the whole procedure and have already written some of the reports, but not finally - what we are waiting for, both with regard to his opinion on the privatisation of the New Bank of Ljubljana and the New Bank of Maribor. In short, it is a fairly complex procedure, but all the procedures that are necessary are ongoing, so we estimate that in no case, not in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, nor the NKBM will be delayed and that we will, of course, adhere to both the coalition contracts, both the government's programmes and the sales programmes of the assets, as we have planted them. However, as I have said, the specific forms will, of course, be subsequently reported when they will also be duly professionally verified and, of course, especially accepted by the Government, which in this case is the body which is finally adopted. What forms will be, of course, discussed about typical methods or typical potential owners and ownership structures, from institutional owners, that is to say, offer to domestics and, of course, it is not possible to exclude foreign ones, we cannot, institutional owners, because they sell shares of 1%, 2% and so-called key investors and strategic investors. The whole programme will also be flexible enough so that if one of the forms of sales, for example in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, would fail, the appropriate other method would be used, all with the aim of making privatisation successful in the end. Privatisation in the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka is further complicated because Nova Ljubljanska banka has quite a few daughters and in this case it is necessary to carry out the prior consolidation or association of individual daughters. In this regard, two valuations have already been made, plus an audit evaluation, so that we have reached an exchange rate between book value and market value. Everything is ready and negotiations are also under way on the accession of three daughters, the Dolenjska Banka, the Pomurska Banka and the Velenjska Banka. I hope that this process will also succeed accordingly. In short, it's all going this way, just like we set it up. As regards the issue of Croatian savers, this was discussed at the relevant committee in the National Assembly. In this regard, the National Assembly also adopted the relevant views. Of course, we follow these views fully and there is no reason to deviate from them. This means that the problem of solving Croatian savers is a problem of success and problem solving within success, not within the privatisation process itself. I am sure that the existing constitutional law, which has defined such a way of functioning and has allowed us to privatise the New Ljubljana Bank if you want to, the New Ljubljana Bank of the Bank of Ljubljana, and to carry out all procedures normally. We will solve the problem of Croatian savers along this path, which has also been established in the National Assembly. Tomorrow, we all have Mr Juergens here together; we have heard some of his statements in the media, which are not very optimistic and encouraging, but nevertheless, it is our job to present our views to him, with all the arguments, and that we are also trying to establish, as far as Europe and the European Court of Justice are concerned, the buttons we stand for. This is that the problem of foreign currency savers is solved in a territorial way. This is the principle that we have saved all foreign currency savers in Slovenia. Croatia has not done so, nor has it allowed the Ljubljanska Bank to resolve what could be solved within its daughter in Croatia, of course within Croatia's territory, with the assets she had, even adequately. This is how we estimate that this is not a particular problem. A particular problem - I fear I will be too long - are co-ordinated savers and owners, but this is already a special topic, another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you. Is the Minister going to answer? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We are solving the issue of the completion of the privatisation gap by filling most of these gaps in the first phase, mainly within the existing legislation, which is mainly linked to the law on enterprise property transformation. Thus, most of the assets of the Slovenian development company will be designed to fill this gap. During the second phase, it is likely that a law will be needed which, in the event of the activities currently carried out by the Slovenian Development Company and, as you know, has not been in accordance with the adopted Directives on State aid allocation by the European Union, these activities will be terminated by the Slovenian Development Company. Part of the activities still related to the performance of certain public functions that private companies cannot do, such as denationalisation procedures and then labour shares in certain companies and similar, will, of course, be transferred, is envisaged to be transferred to the compensation fund. At that time, the existing law of the Slovenian Development Society will have to be amended and corrected. Most of the assets, it is said, are almost all assets of the SRD we will transfer and fill the gap under this existing legislation. I must say that the assets of the SRD, together with the decision to transfer about 20% of the state assets of the Slovenian ironworks to the pids, are estimated that almost 2/3 of this deficit or gap will be filled up earlier than this year, because it will be necessary to go through packages. The entire scenario and the total amount or value of the property of this Slovenian development company will also be submitted as a proposal to the government at the end of this month, so that we will reach this deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	Madam Minister, allow me to question your words in part, although I do not like it very much. So you say that you will adhere to the provisions of the coalition contract, which clearly and very clearly says: "The coalition undertakes to offer within 5 months to the pawns sufficient assets to fill the privatisation gap." So the story will be solved, say, about 15.4. Thank you for your answer, Minister. You're wonderful. And yet, Mr. Rope, the Minister of Finance, you have answered three of the six questions. I truly believed that you would answer everything. But if I didn't put you in an awkward position today, I would only ask if you could at least answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	Yes, of course I can answer in writing, but I just don't know if there's a special need. The next issue was the protection of workers. Now I don't know if you've been thinking about protecting employees in companies that are being credited by the bank or those who are employed in the bank. We are, of course, faced with the undeniable fact that the privatisation of both banks and one of the privatisation objectives is also a greater efficiency of the Slovenian financial system. This, of course, means lower interest rates and, above all, lower margins of Slovenian banks, which are relatively large. This means, of course, rationalising the operations of both banks, greater productivity, greater competitiveness, and this will undoubtedly have certain consequences for the number of employees, especially if they are, and of course the new owners will say so in these two banks, over-employed workers, which, of course, have an impact on the larger margins and less competitiveness of both banks. Of course, at this point, I cannot answer you, especially in this sense, to tell you how much is surplus, how little they are competitive and, of course, what foreign owners will do. However, if we want the long-term survival of Slovenian banks, these banks and, of course, their expansion in line with the development strategy of the two banks, which is also linked to penetration into other markets, then it is also necessary to ensure through privatisation capital increase, recapitalisation and also strategic partners and connections.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Next up is Roman Jakič. No, I'm sorry. You took advantage of your options. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	[[...]] [[From the bench - not included.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	Mr Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Presidents, respectable, respected! At my previous meeting of the National Assembly, I have put under this item one question on the issue of prostitution. I got the answer and, of course, thank Minister Bohinc. However, I would like to comment on the letter, but I would like to say that the government, in fact, needs to take a look at it, support my initiative and my colleague Merla, about the formation of an expert group. Me and the instigator, it is said with my colleague Merl, but we did not only have in mind the law on prostitution, and as it was said here, as the final product, but quite the opposite or partly the opposite, also, of course, the law on prostitution, that if an expert group came to this. In our opinion, the expert group should determine whether it is possible to amend even existing legislation in order to strengthen this existing legislation to strengthen the fight against forced prostitution in order to protect this juvenile law against sexual abuse, in order to reduce the link between prostitution and organised crime or criminal activities, in order to establish regulation and control of sexual activity and to finally regulate the social and health status of persons who are prostitutes. I therefore welcome the Ministry of the Interior's intention that all the documentation was delivered to the Ministry of Labour, the family in February 2000, at least that is what it says. And it also says, I quote, "The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will most likely be, according to the area under consideration, also the bill-maker." That is why, of course, I call and give an initiative to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to, for the first time, speed up the preparation of legislation, if necessary. Above all, if I understand correctly from this letter that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is the coordinator and in some way the creator of the so-called expert group, which, according to data, has met once before on this topic of prostitution in the previous year. Therefore, the initiative for a simple reason, because I see no reason why it is such a pressing issue, not a blinding of the eyes, but that it is not now possible in the government, given that the government has adopted a decision and welcomed the initiative, sets up this expert group, which would finally start to deliver some results in the area of the problem of prostitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you. Please. Mrs. Belopavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	I think there are some things that need to be explained, if you'll excuse me. Such an initiative has, in fact, been given by Members last year, an identical initiative. On 9 March 2000, the government also replied in writing to this initiative. I have a copy of this answer before me. At that time, the initiative was slightly different in order to set up an interdepartmental commission in which representatives of the legislative body and the executive branch would participate, in order to form this body or such a commission here in Parliament. That's how it was supposed to be. In this response, the government supported this. She also said that, in fact, it was a very large number of cross-cutting issues to address health care issues, a question covered by the Ministry of Home Affairs, a question covered by the Ministry of Justice and also a part of the problem covered by the Ministry of Labour, and that it was already said in that initiative that the part covered by the Ministry of Labour, which concerned the issue of pension and disability insurance of persons engaged in such activities, was covered or covered under the new law on pension and disability insurance. The fact is that this new law actually gives the possibility of being insured or even being protected by anyone who carries out an authorised activity on his own. That is to say, the problem is that this activity is recognised as being permitted, that it is no longer an offence, that those who deal with pimping are now sanctioned by criminal law. In short, it's a very broad issue. I am speaking because I do not think that this initiative is properly addressed to the Ministry of Labour. It is also likely that what was meant should be clarified in this context. Is it true that the government is the one to which the initiative is addressed or still remains within the framework of the executive legislature sitting together and preparing a draft law? The Ministry of Labour will work with its man to draw up such a law if necessary, but it is likely to be a very difficult carrier.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. I have to say that I don't understand this performance in work. It's just that this is a problem. It's not an identical initiative. [[...]] The initiative is the same, Roman Jakič and Alexander Merlo gave this initiative in the previous term. So we're not going to be wondering what the trigger was thinking before, what he's thinking now. We are the same instigators, and the same initiative applies. The initiative, however, went to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following the formation of an expert group because we felt that an interdisciplinary approach should be taken to solve the problem. Finally, it is clear from Dr. Bohinec’s letter that similar sanctifications already exist. The Crime Service, which is interested in solving this issue in some way, is preparing a consultation every year on this subject, which is attended by interested groups. In this case, last year, in Gotenica, such a meeting was held, in addition to all the ministries listed by you and the Women's Policy Office, the state's public prosecutor joined, if I correctly understood or the representative of the Supreme Court and the representative of the Office for Women's Policy. Now I'm asking you back, to whom should I take the initiative to finally form an expert group? This is the initiative of the Members. And you're forcing me to put Merlo's translation of the Dutch law into the subject that he's going to raise, for the first time, into the "louft" coalition, and for the second time, the public. No, it's the opposite. As an instigator, we wanted the government to come to a conclusion with its expert groups: for the first time, whether it was necessary to make its own law, and for the second time whether it was necessary to amend existing legislation and thus solve this problem. You mentioned one of these. You have in the qualification of professions, for example, prostitution mentioned. And we talk like we don't know what prostitution is in this country. So now I'm asking you to tell me who to address this initiative again. Finally, I'd like to come to the conclusion that this is an expert. However, it is true that we have also offered ourselves Members, given that we have experience from the Dutch Parliament, with our colleagues, and we are ready to engage to help politically as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dr. Bohinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	I think Mr. Ambassador is right. In fact, we need to agree on where the initiative for this expert group will come from. Given that the Ministry of the Interior often includes issues that do not belong to any other ministries, we are prepared to take this initiative and to form, coordinate the composition of the Interdepartmental Group, which will cover all these areas, in order to determine what you expect to see whether existing legislation needs to be amended or whether the system needs to be re-set. I think that we can do this, given that we have already conducted professional activities, a series of consultations that have been interdisciplinaryly set up in this area, and you can expect such an initiative from our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Igor Štemberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. I would like to point my question to the Ministry of Transport. Not so long ago we Slovenians had full mouth readings flying to the neighbouring Italian side, ignoring our new country because they still have the signs "YU", Yugoslavia. Over the years, the Italians have completed these markings and corrected them, and we, I think, have not been able to clear them all the way before our threshold today. I find that in our own territory we do not ensure the use, consistent use of Slovenian names, Slovenian codes. Croatian names are used on all of Slovenia's coastlines for Croatia, Croatian names are used for Croatian cities. And a similar situation is also on the main road Kozina-Starod, while at the Illyrian-Bistrian end we finally completed the markings and became bilingual, so now we have added Slovenian in addition to Croatian names. I ask when we will do the same on the Slovenian coast, where the situation is so absurd at some point that we have a Croatian code for the Croatian city, an Italian label, and no Slovenian. I think ten years of self-reliance is really enough to make this flaw or, now we can call it a slemparacy, let's get this over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you so much for asking. We'll prepare the answer in writing. I don't think we need to answer now, because it was essentially an initiative, not a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Can I get you anything else? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Last year the Government of the Republic of Slovenia published in the Official Journal No 59, 30.6.2000 a regulation on the value of criteria for determining areas with a specific development problem and identifying areas that meet those criteria. I ask the Ministry or Government why ministries do not take into account in public calls concerning municipalities, but do not include a regulation on the value of criteria for identifying areas with specific development and structural problems. I am convinced that the regulation itself allows economically weak municipalities the basis for obtaining funding through public tendering. In the current practice, the Regulation itself does not take into account in the tendering itself. I'm asking the government and asking for a written answer. Otherwise, I think that if the regulation itself is not taken into account, the regulation should be repealed. Then I have another question. The question is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to President Drnovšk. The town of Strmol has been the subject of debate for some time both in the government and in the cabinet of President Milan Kučan. Whether the government intends to return the Strmol Castle to the denationalisation beneficiary in nature or intends to pay him compensation in the value of the Strmol Castle itself. It is known that the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tends to return in nature. It is also known that in the office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia there is a claim that the Strmol Castle does not return, in short, to pay compensation, which has also been assessed. I also want a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you. Who's going to answer, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u109	Igor Strmčnik, Ministry of Economy. Indeed, last year a regulation on incentives was issued. Its purpose, however, was to take into account, in addition to the regional incentives that our ministry gives directly to areas with specific development problems, the co-financing of local infrastructure, including those of ministries, other ministries that have been invited to the territory of the whole country, of the so-called regional weighting and in cases where a particular project is located in a municipality or in an area with specific development problems, such a project would be given a certain priority, most often at the level of co-financing that can be determined in such a project. So this is not something that could be implemented by issuing a regulation, but it is something that needs to be put in place now in the call for individual ministries that provide horizontal incentives. We have the opportunity to do this this year because state aid regulation already requires ministries to modify and adapt their regulations granting financial aid to these state aid rules. Of course, we are trying, and we will continue to make sure that as many calls from state ministries as possible are obtained by such regional peddlers. At the very least, with the establishment of the Ministry of the Economy, we will ensure that the Ministry of Economy's tenders across the country already this year contain such regional peddlers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u110	The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, will also respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u111	Second question, about Strmol. At the same time, I will apologize to the Member because he will not get a written reply for at least a few more time because I would not be any different from what I am about to say orally. It's the next one. The town of Strmol is undoubtedly a remarkable monument, including a cultural monument. Of course, it also contains protocol events. It is true that these protocol events are relatively small or too small for the economy to merely say that the implementation of protocol events would allow and also cost the maintenance costs required by such a castle. Hence, the government had already issued or accepted a declaration of will that said that it did not oppose the return of the castle in nature. However, later reflections and analyses have also shown that it would actually be relatively difficult to return such a castle, in particular because of its cultural aspects, and also because the denationalising beneficiary does not really know what to do with the castle. It would probably bring back the castle in nature to a large extent to detract from its present functions and probably also contribute greatly to its way of value as a historical, cultural and artistic object. This is precisely why procedures are currently under way to verify how much, of course, this legal declaration is willing to change, in order, including taking into account the economics of the maintenance of the cultural facility, to determine whether, however, the recovery decision in nature could be changed in such a way that the denationalising beneficiary would receive the actually paid liability of the compensation fund. And that's because the interest here is identical. Also, a denationalising beneficiary would rather receive compensation fund bonds than return to the castle in nature. I think it will take another month to see whether these procedures can be carried out in this way, whether they are economically viable, and therefore, of course, we could not provide comprehensive information on this subject until all these checks and procedures that are being carried out in front of the administrative unit have been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. First, as to the first question or answer. The distinguished representative of the Ministry of Economic Relations, see, this is precisely why I have asked these questions because the ministries do not comply with this government regulation. I would therefore ask from this city that it be clear to all ministries that it has sent and that this regulation is then also respected. Last year, these regulations were not taken into account at the Ministry of Environment and Space and also at other ministries. But as for the Strmol Castle, the conclusion is quite correct, Mr Bandelj. But I think it's time for the government to decide. This is the Brdo protocol, which in some way also leaves regular maintenance, only status quo takes place, and the Strmol Castle itself, can happen that, in fact, as a historical and cultural monument, with all the heritage that the Strmol Castle has in its existing infrastructure, is afraid that the Strmol Castle, given that there was also a proposal to go to the compensation fund, to the bonds, the beneficiary will probably not agree with this, which means that the money and the equivalent to the beneficiary should also be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you. Please prepare the following fellow Members: Aurelio Juri, Aloise Sok, Bogdan Barovic and Branko Kelemina. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Government officials, welcome aboard! At the previous meeting, I took the initiative of the Government to request the Constitutional Court to expedite the assessment of the border traffic agreement and cooperation with Croatia. At the last meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee, the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied that the initiative had not been forwarded and linked this story to Schengen. Today I have also received a written reply that the Government has not given this initiative or that it has not addressed this request and does not intend to do so because the government cannot and cannot influence the content and pace of the work of the Constitutional Court. The answer has a weak point, because once, in 1997, the government had already asked the Constitutional Court to deal with cases of associate membership quickly. [[It was an international treaty hearing.]] and then the Constitutional Court reacted accordingly. Of course, I take note of the response the Ministry has provided. I find that excessive cheering and interest in finally returning this agreement to our bench is not, but I am not satisfied with this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u117	Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially respectable colleague Yuri! I would like to say the following about your question. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not addressed a request to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a priority opinion on this issue of your initiative. The Ministry has never before addressed such a request to a constitutional court. The government could have done that more. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the matter from the government's hands or from the government has been taken over by a group of Members who have addressed, as is known, a request. So the Group of Members of this Parliament has asked the Constitutional Court to verify the constitutionality of this Agreement. If, of course, this is the case with Parliament, if this is agreed upon, if this is the opinion of the focal points and so on, then of course I think it would be appropriate if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u118	No, no, okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u119	the government has addressed such a request as you propose to the Constitutional Court. [[...]] However, in principle, I personally find it somewhat controversial that the Ministry, because I speak on behalf of the Ministry, would intervene in the Constitutional Court. Such intervention could be understood by judges as pressure on their independence, independence and so on. Here's what I'd like to say. The Constitutional Court has already adopted on 6 April a decision on the matter of which you are referring, honourable Member, to give priority. As I know, this matter has already been decided by several sessions and the final decision has not yet been taken by the Constitutional Court on this matter. On the basis of these data I have, I can conclude that intervention in the stage when things are under way would actually be a little depressed. I would, of course, like to assure my colleague Yuri that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is interested in the decision of the Constitutional Court, on such a decision that would allow work to continue on the agreement which is the subject of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! I'm going to ask you a question about last year's drought. Before I ask you a question, allow me to take another initiative in this National Assembly. Look, here in front of Parliament in the Market of the Republic is an exaggerated Slovenian flag. If you remember, we celebrated this flag ten years ago, despite a small slip in connection with the inactive microphones, that's when we hung up. But it bothers me very much that the floor is under this flag, around this flag, strongly, if I use that word, "swallowed." It's just that no one around this flag cleans up. As representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space are here, they may be able to tell in whose competence this space is. I would not like to see, what I know, who suggested that the pillar, the disgraceful one, be placed in front of the capital of the Republic and point to the Slovenian Parliament, which, as a representative of the highest authority, the representative of the State, does not see to it that the symbol of Slovenian statehood is respected. So, the initiative is well-intentioned. Take a look at this and make sure that the symbol of the flag in this place is respected, so that no empty yogurt pots, beer, or anything else can be found there. I've been watching this thing for four months, and I thought something would move in the spring, but it's still the way it was. Or, if we organize, let's go all those in this House to one clean-up action and clean this place up. Well, that's what we could do. This is either this initiative or an incentive, as taken. Now I would like to ask a question, namely, to the Ministry of Environment and Space. The question is simple, short and fickle. I ask them when the third meal will be paid to the affected from last year's drought. This is a $1.6 billion fund. I further ask why in this year's budget, in accordance with the law you passed in Parliament in 2000, many of the Members you have adopted are still sitting in this House today, so I ask the Ministry why this year's budget does not provide funds in accordance with this Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Drought, the Placing of the Land and the Sluging of the Sea. It's 3.4 billion tolars. At the time of the spring harvest, the situation in the field of agriculture is poor or worse from day to day. Many of the beneficiaries, because of some of the priorities they have been working in the municipalities, have not yet received any money from this title because of the drought, so they eagerly and eagerly expect when the country will fulfil the commitment it has made. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you. Who's going to answer, please? Here you go. Secretary of State of the Tauzes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In fact, the government has already responded to the Committee of Parliament, which is responsible for agriculture. Of course, it is appropriate for me to repeat the answer given by the government to the same question, even though I do not know if I will hit the right numbers. First, it must be noted that the so-called dry law was actually realized there at a rate of 3.6 billion. As regards the victims or the beneficiaries of the drought, approximately 18% of the compensation was paid. It should be said here that this share of the damage claims paid is 18% and in fact one of the largest percentages ever paid for similar natural disasters in Slovenia. The government then stated what the expected budget cut for 2001 was, too, linked to this law. It has been made clear that there are no more than the resources available in the 2001 budget and even during this transitional period of compensation for this damage. This expected budget cut in 2001 is the next - the 6 to 7 billion in the amount of damage in the budget reserves caused by natural disasters would be serviced mainly for three laws. One relates to the earthquake restoration of Soča, the other to the dry law and the third to the accidents that occurred late in the autumn, we do not yet have this law, and of course the accident that is related to the event in Logo under Mangarto. This cut provides 1.6 billion for the share related to the dry law, about 3.5 billion for the earthquake recovery of Soča and 1.6 billion for the accident in Logo under Mangart and for the accidents that took place in the late autumn. The government is aware that this is not all the 10 billion. This would satisfy about 65% of compensation claims under the so-called dry law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, Mr. Secretary of State of Mags. Tausesa replied somehow in the sense that the government of this law, as it was, would not execute. Thus, it is necessary to tell these people clearly and loudly, then let the government tell them that they will not get what the law has laid down. The Dry Law, as he calls it, provided for drought in 2000 4.6 billion and in 2001 3.4 billion tolars. So it's a total of 8 billion. As I understand it, from this title Slovenian agriculture will receive a little more than half of the funds. I am aware that this is not just the problem of one ministry, the Ministry of Environment and Space. It's the whole government's problem. I wonder whether it is true that in such and similar situations Slovenian farmers must always draw the shortest, and in the difficulties Slovenia certainly has in the field of finance, it is those who will be harmed through this. So, this is not right, so I would ask the National Assembly to support this issue and to draw up a decision and a government in Parliament to enforce the law that has been passed, and we can indeed say that we are a rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'd like to complement my colleague Tauzes. He spoke of the reserve provided for in the 2001 budget of 6 billion tolars. However, we must say that from 2000 there is another quota of money in the reserve, which is being transferred to 2001 as unspent but already committed funds amounting to 4 billion 800 tolars. Part of this appropriation will also be intended to cover the obligations under the so-called dry law. In order to propose that the Government should clarify in more detail how much of the funds from the reserve to be eliminated in 2001 and how much of the funds transferred from the reserve from 2000 responds in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the executive branch! First, a question sent to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. I will say in advance that I will ask for a written answer, because I think that some of the information that I am going to ask for, Mr Minister, does not have with him and probably does not. The municipality of Trbovlje and the local community of Čeče nad Trbovje are connected to the regional road of the first class of R1 221. The story of the road is more than 10 years old. The road was supposed to be expanded and asphalted 10 years ago. In 1994, the road where it had already been asphalted was first sprayed by a reptile. He's been rehabilitated. After about two years, the plasma reactivated. Since 1997, swimming has been a regular occurrence. Today, 7 years after the first swim, the beach reached enormous proportions. Meaning, 7 years of beach, 7 years of beach repair, but it's an insurmountable problem. The road hasn't been set up yet. A third of the road hasn't been touched yet. After more than ten years from the start of the reconstruction, this road is now even untransportable. However, it connects the local community of Ceče, where 500 Rippers live and connects them as the only road with the congregation. This same regional road is the only alternative link between Trbów and Hrastnik. So the facts are clear. The road, approximately 4 km long, has been under construction for more than 10 years. Climbing is increased, every year after several times, every time to a greater extent. Please, if the written ministry can answer the following questions. What was the planned value of the works to regulate this road? How much money has been spent on this road? Where have the funds already been invested? How many projects have been made to solve this work? I know there were a lot of them. How much did these swimming projects cost? Because people say someone makes a big joke out of them. Since I still have time, allow me to take the initiative. I am taking the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a law on the protection of the use of Slovenian language. I'm basing it on the next very short story. The last time I run into a store, I look at the sign and it says "close." The title of the store was "picture design". Because it was a while ago I had coffee at Misty pub. Young people talk "okay", "cool", "bay", "shit" and so on. I come home, watch TV Slovenian, of course, a friendly hostess is saying "see you", the second add "bye" The advertisement is full of "spiders", "black magic's", "atack's" and so on. The Slovenian song competition for the performance of Eurovision is performed by Group Number Two, with the Slovenian song "Good bye my love", in English. A son in college is taught by someone who says "seeks a complete understanding of facsimile publishing", and learns from the book Flight management. In Parliament we listen to joint ventures, hearing, union, education, agreement and so on and so forth. The Chinese passed a law to protect their language. Sometimes they have a tax on those who want to have company titles or other titles in a foreign language. So why should we not do the same in Slovenia, because we are still in the full drive to enter the European Union, forgive me, the connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you so much for asking. I think that, similarly, you have not asked such a detailed question at the previous meeting, on the basis of which we have also given an answer, if that is the case with Ceče. Given that there have been a lot of questions, you have correctly concluded that I do not have this information with me, because it has not been announced at all, so we will provide the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Branko Kelemini, please prepare Dorian Marshic, Ana Marija Tisovic, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Janko Weber, Franc Sušnik. Mr Branko Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. I am asking a question today to the Government, or to the Minister of State. Last Thursday at its meeting, the government proposed to v.d. Director of Post Slovenia, Mr Mag. Alfonza Podgorelca, a retired postal worker who received a pension of 9 personal incomes. At that time, he also filed an action against the Post of Slovenia for 24 additional personal benefits on the basis of a competitive clause which was abolished by the Post Control Board at the time of his retirement. Does it make sense for you to have the Director of Mail present in the suit as a debtor and a defendant? Second question. Or really the Maribor company Sortema during the direction of Alfonso Podgorelec in 1997-2000 with Post Slovenia operated over 1.5 billion tolars, and for the purposes of Mail it would also build apartments for which the estimate amounted to up to 500,000 tolars per square metre, namely in rural areas. Whether the owner of Sortema is indeed a senior official of the Maribor LDS, as it is also expected to support this company on several occasions with large amounts of LDS in various campaigns, as shown in the reports. I'd like to ask for that answer. Next question, third question. Today we read in the media that it is v.d. Post Director Alfonz Podgoricaec lost his claim against staff member Post for slander and insult. Here's this article. He also lost his claim against the same employee in the court of law and caused material damage to the mail due to his non-professional work. I ask you whether the Director of Post, Mr Alfonz Podgorica, has concluded a contract with Senica's law firm, amounting to a few million SIT, for representation in this lawsuit. According to our information, lawyer Mirko Bandelj, today's Prime Minister-General, is also expected to appear as a representative on several occasions. The costs for this case were relatively high. I'm asking how big they were. I would also like to know whether the Director is entitled to receive high legal fees from the Slovenian Post Office in private lawsuits. I also ask for an explanation regarding the purchase of suspicious brands in 1998. I also ask for an explanation on the basis of which documents are the current v.d. Director has been appointed as adviser to the former Assistant Director and has distributed the current Assistant Director of Law out of town [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Beginner's salary, almost trainee. [[...]] According to our assessment, it is a violation of all regulations beyond the human resources plan and the bullying and humiliation of former officials who have been employed indefinitely. I ask politely for an answer to a number of very current and important questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you. I believe the Minister, Dr. Gantar, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, Mr Kelemin! I thank you for the question, and at this point I will answer those questions that I can give a very reliable answer to. You'll get all the other stuff in writing. First of all, I would like to mention that Mr Podgorica has been appointed V.d. the Director and that the call for the Director will be published very quickly. Only then will the Director be elected with a permanent or permanent term. In any event, Mr Podgorica will have to return the pension in such a case. Of course, there is no doubt about that. It's just a condition if it reactivates. With regard to all these accusations of wrongdoing and similarly they have circulated in the Slovenian space in one way or another, they have all been denied by documents and in this written reply you will receive these confirmed denials, which you have also mentioned and we will respond. With regard to the private actions that Mr Podgorica has lost, I do not comment on these private actions, especially if they are not final, namely legal ones. Certainly, it is not possible to use public money for private actions, either in the country or in public companies. At the same time, of course, I also say that Mrs Ribič's replacement laid down very strict criteria for all those in public services and public enterprises. We will adhere to these harsh criteria in all people, regardless of their political provenance and professionalism.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your answer. I would really ask for an answer because it is a whole series of questions that would certainly be very right if it were answered. If the answers are possible, they should be supported by appropriate documents. So I would really like you to confirm this in writing with these documents that we will know if the indications that we just gave and the information that we have are holding or not. We are not condemning any further, because we would like to use the right documents on the basis of all these questions that I have asked, these questions are somehow backed up or rejected and that we actually get real, not only as Members, but also by the Slovenian public some exact data. However, if they do not, we will, of course, check and continue to ask or ask for further clarifications and additional questions. I really thank you, and I ask you to answer these questions in an reasoned manner with specific information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Dorian Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u139	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Respectable members and members of the government! My first question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport or Direct Direction for State Roads. Since the time of partial reconstruction of the Koper-Kozin road for the transport of the Krško nuclear power plant, I must say that the road point is particularly problematic. In the transport of this extraordinary cargo, the most problematic was the sharping of the black-and-black klan, which had to change its direction. Since then, there have been numerous accidents in this section, of which 4 are large in two years, two of them with large quantities of dangerous substances. In view of the fact that this part of the road is in the immediate vicinity of the Rižana watershed area, I would like to know when the State Roads Directorate will establish the original state of the road. I wonder if there really must be more victims or possibly pollution of Rižana Valley in order to take action in this case. I would ask that in response we skip the part that talks about limiting traffic speed to 30 kilometers per hour, because obviously this measure is too small. However, the second question is addressed to the Ministry of Education. This year's budget is expected to provide for start-up funds for the University of the Sea, fighting 40 million tolars, which is enough for projects in the facility provided by the Municipality of Koper for the purposes of the University. The University of the Sea is the subject of a coalition agreement and I am interested in how the Government or the Ministry of Education thinks to implement it or whether these numbers in the budget mean that the burden of establishing this university continues to be on the shoulders and burden of the coastal municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, I don't have an answer right now, but I would say from memory that some research on this sickle is being done, so we will give a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Minister of Education, Mrs. Chokov.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u143	Hello, Members and Members of Parliament, also welcomed by a fellow Member of the Republic of Cyprus who asked this question. I would like to tell you in general that in Primorske this year there are 6,300 students enrolled in various higher education institutions. This means that the University of Primorsko is a fact of creation and I hope also in the final phase. In March this year, the government redesigned an expert group, which will prepare the following in 2001 in particular. The concept, and this is logistical, programming, organisational and human resources for the University of Primorska, because we know that this is primarily the interest of the whole of Primorska, not just Kopra or Gorica. It will also examine the legal bases and status of individual members to join, as we have both separate institutions and dislocation units of both universities. With these 40 million, which are not really many, it will mainly prepare the ideas and construction locations of what it really invested, invested by local communities. For example, the municipality of Gorica, the municipality of Koper, Izola and Piran are the main financiers who have made it possible so far for those 400 beds in the homes as well as the residence or buildings for the current independent establishment. I can't give you the exact money right now, but it goes into 100 million and 100 million every year. This group will also eventually report to the government on what it has prepared - this concept. So we expect that in 2002, at the beginning of this year, the government will submit a proposal to the National Assembly. This is how we expect, as we have promised in the pre-election period, not only in the coalition, but also in the opposition, the parties have consistently provided this to their constituents. There are many obstacles to the creation of the university. Some have already been defeated, especially the consensus in the Slovenian space at academic level, I think it has been achieved. Barriers, however, are still of a material nature and also of a marital nature. I must say that the law on higher education has been made very precisely according to the measure of the University of Ljubljana, which means that what we have adopted and what we have signed in Slovenia, both the Lisbon Charter and the Bologna Charter, also provides for a different organisation of universities and that sooner or later the law on higher education will be again in the National Assembly. However, this, of course, should not prevent at least the establishment of a new Slovenian university, for reasons - just try to delete the Slovenian border in your mind. What does that mean? It means that this space of the northern Adriatic has five universities along the border, Graz, Gorica, Videm - even in Monfalcone they work the university - Trieste, Venice. This means that if we do not have a Slovenian university in our space, our young people will only go to these five universities from all over Primorska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Please, an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you to the Minister and the Minister for Response. Mr Presečnik, I would just like to ask that this study, which you mentioned, will mean answers and will refer to solutions to those Serpentines, but this will not take too long because you need to be aware of the facts: any accident that occurs in that part of the road, means that Slovenian Istria is simply cut off from Slovenia for hours. It is all right that we have passports and that we can also go through Italy, but I do not think that this is the solution we are expecting. And that we have in mind that the highway cross has certain priorities and that it is likely that the accelerated construction of the motorway to Primorska will also help solve this problem more effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you. Member Ana Marija Tisovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to address the Minister, Dr Teo Petrinov, with the same topic as Mr Rokavec has already discussed. We know that competition for customers has intensified in recent years in Slovenian trade. In doing so, commercial companies seek to gain advantages, in particular by over-exhausting their workers and workers. Trade employers are primarily concerned with money and wealth, and they do not care about human rights and human rights. For profit, some are willing to undermine all civil standards, including the right of workers and workers to daily and weekly rest. In addition to all other problems related to poor housing opportunities, fear of losing a job, material danger, the circumstances that discourage young people from forming families are prolonged and Sunday’s working hours. The absence of mothers on Saturdays and even on Sundays breaks up families and alienates family members. It is necessary to create as many opportunities as possible for parents and children to live together in a harmonious family community that will have time for itself and for developing mutual relations. This can only happen if all members of the association have the opportunity to spend at least one day a week together and to meet in the family circle each night. The introduction of night and Sunday work, when not necessary, is unacceptable and needs to be limited to the minimum possible extent. Therefore, I ask you why you have amended the rules on working hours of trade by allowing employers full freedom in determining working time, irrespective of the opinion of the local community. The only restrictions remaining are restrictions on working time under the labour rules, which do not specify a Sunday break at all. According to the previous text of the Regulation, the municipal authority could participate in the determination of operating time in the common interest, since each employer had to send him a schedule of operating time for confirmation. Now this provision has been released. I ask you how the municipal authority or the local community can even influence the implementation of Article 1 of the Regulation, by which it is necessary to take account of the needs of consumers when determining operating time and the business environment. Do citizens not have the right to Sunday peace? Above all, the question is: do they not have the right to a Sunday break for shopkeepers? Why do you even have this rule, since it does not specify a procedure for changing working time, nor a procedure for control, nor does it lay down sanctions? If such a rule already exists, it should not be completely empty, but should lay down a mechanism to harmonise the interests of local communities and lay down uniform rules for the operation of competition between companies. Do you really think that employers in the field of trade can agree on their own opening time limits in trade? And would such an agreement be even possible to sanction? And one more thing, Madam Secretary. You told us that on the one hand there are traders with 60,000 monthly wages and on the other hand employers - e.g. as Mr Jankovic or general representative of Leclerc - equally strong negotiating partners. That's why you're telling me that they should agree on their own working hours. I highly doubt that. They also question trades that are employed in commercial companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you for the question, but I've already answered it. I would only point out once again that in these debates let us separate what is working time and what is working time. Our ministry is the Ministry of Economy. Its competence is precisely what you said to ensure market unity in terms of competitiveness. And that's what we did. Secondly, the issue of labour rights, social rights and the like, are ministries such as the Ministry of Labour and the family and so on. In addition, questions - between employers and employees - I think that right here they can trade unions - and this is their real role to play here; but not about this: business or non-rescue time, but about how their workers are treated in a trade organisation, and this is their real task. And that's what they have to deal with employers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Madam Member, Sonja Areh Lavrič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a question for the Ministry of Health concerning the implementation of Articles 50 and 51 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the State governs health insurance and takes care of its functioning. Under the provisions of Article 51, everyone has the right to health care under the conditions laid down by the law. Undoubtedly, anyone seeking medical care in a public hospital must be provided with care for his treatment, prevention of additional infections - which the patient may have been able to receive and is also, according to the situation at the Ljubljana Clinical Centre. It is publicly known that emergency bacteriological conditions have occurred in the Ljubljana Clinical Centre, as they are particularly affected by surgery in patients with additional infections that are life-threatening. It is clear that health care means the right to heal, prevent deterioration, and to make the situation easier when a medical condition is established. Not, as in our case, that the health situation is further compromised. The health situation is in the general interest and also constitutionally protected. In view of this situation, I refer to the Ministry of Health the question of what the Ministry of Health has done to reduce or prevent such occurrences in Slovenian hospitals. I would ask for clarification on the state of the hospital and on the measures already taken or to be taken to remedy the general risk to the health situation of the inhabitants of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you. Please. Secretary of State of the Supreme, please, Supreme, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you, honourable Member, for the question raised. You refer to the event from the Ljubljana Clinical Center, which we were informed about both through the media and in other ways. We in the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health have already issued certain regulations concerning the exercise of health activities, the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia provides supervision of the implementation of these regulations. So that at this point I can only give you a formal reply that, according to our knowledge, in this case, it has been provided to everything that is required in accordance with the existing rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you. You want to ask an additional question. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I'm referring questions to the government. In the previous reference to the National Assembly, the Commission of the National Assembly on European Affairs adopted a decision at its 72nd meeting on 27.7.2000 on the consideration of the report on the progress made by the Republic of Slovenia in the integration into the European Union, which mandated the Government to report to the National Assembly on the use of all funds obtained under international programmes, as well as on the development programmes adopted by the Government, indicating the areas or areas in which these programmes are implemented and the effects. I ask the question because the southern border has so far not had much opportunity to join international projects, and the situation at the southern border will change dramatically when Slovenia enters the European Union. To this end, many measures or programmes will also be envisaged and, in view of the effectiveness of the implementation of these programmes, it would be good to learn about the current achievements and experiences that will certainly be extremely useful. Since the government has not so far forwarded that report to the National Assembly, I ask whether the current government is aware of this request and I ask why the decision of the Commission has not been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u156	Who's going to answer? Here you go, Secretary General.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you very much for the question, at the same time, I apologize for not being able to get an oral answer today, and I promise you that within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure, you will receive a written answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik has the floor, and I would warn the following Members to prepare themselves: Dr Jožef Bernik, Danica Simšič, Jožef Jerovšek, Ivan Mamić, Jože Tanko, Majda Zupan, Pavel Rupar. I give my word to Mr. Ambassador Franco Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u159	Dear Mr Vice-President, the House of Respect. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the Minister of Environment and Space, I ask Mr Kopač the following questions, which are related to the flood safety of Savinja. First of all, when will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare and present a programme of measures to ensure the flood safety of Savinja? And secondly, how did the construction of the Arja Vas - Vranko motorway section affect the deterioration of Savanje's flood safety, and how will the construction of the Vransko - Blagovica highway section, which will soon be completed, affect the deterioration of Savinje's flood safety. Something to explain. In the past decade, Savinja, as a whole or its individual parts, has repeatedly been affected by the severe water catchment of great proportions. As we recall in 1990, 1994, 1999, 2000, and many times more. These water catches have also caused enormous damage in areas of narrow old settlements such as Laško, Celje, Prebold, Tabor, Vransko and elsewhere. It is also worrying that the maintenance of the watercourses of Savinja and Sotle is devoted to every year of scarce resources, but completely severely insufficient, and that there is no comprehensive programme of water retention measures at the source; there are no water spill areas defined, nothing done in the construction of the reservoirs - here I think both dry and rainy retainers and other measures that would keep the water in the well and thus protect urban settlements. In contrast, today we can see that neither the effects of the first water catch of 1990 are being remedied, that we are not even talking about the consequences of the subsequent floods. Moreover, during this time the construction of the Arja vas-Trojana motorway sector has also significantly increased the contribution areas, which I believe has further exacerbated flood safety in my view and in the opinion of the people living there. At the same time, no measures have been taken to contain such increased waters, which is certainly the result of the frequent flooding of such, old organised settlements and areas as I mentioned earlier. I ask these questions orally and in writing and ask for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State Tauzes will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! In fact, the ministry will have to answer such broad questions in writing. However, I would like to highlight something. In 1998, when the law was presented in this House, Savinja's flood safety was very much processed, i.e. also programmed, and a number of these issues will have to be drawn from this annex to the law. However, another matter related to the road programme or to the impact of the road programme, as regards flood safety or the deterioration of flood safety, is being processed so that it will not be difficult for the Ministry to prepare answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u163	Well, I would like to point out that the provision of flood safety is also one of the central themes of the so-called Savinja statistical region, and the representatives of the local community of this region also strongly demand answers to these questions. I am therefore confident that the government will provide comprehensive information on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr Jozef Bernik has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the government and ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is addressed to Minister Rope, which is to propose that the amendment of the value added tax law should be brought through a rapid procedure. With this proposal, the government will hit the taxpayers hard. According to the law in force, as we know, for a tax period, a month or a calendar month is extended and the periods are also fixed for taxable persons. This is said to be paid in three - month or six - year meals. However, the current law says that the latter can decide on their own to charge VAT monthly. According to the tax administration, out of a total of about 73,000 taxpayers, it proposes monthly VAT accounts of about 85 per cent, 3 monthly 11 per cent of the debtors and around 5 per cent of the debtors use half-yearly accounts. Now the hundred amendments to the law will be reduced by the number of taxpayers charged on the calendar month to between 62 thousand and almost 28 thousand. Therefore, the proposed amendment of the law will provide that a taxable person who carries out both a tax and a exempt activity may deduct only the amount of the entry VAT which may be attributed to the management of the taxable activity. Following the amendment of the law, taxable persons who are primarily engaged in export activities will no longer have the right to claim the refund of the entry VAT surplus, but the excess of the entry tax will be included in the deposit of the tax in the following tax periods. The marriage novel would also make it easier for the workers in the tax administration to work because, at least for those who have a direct deal with it, they would do three times less bills than they did the old ones. This change of law will put a heavy burden on the debtors. These debtors will have to pay around 9 million more for the first tax period following the implementation of this law, according to a DURS assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u166	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u167	I'll try as soon as possible, chairman. So one would wonder why this increase in taxes. In fact, it's not exactly an increase in taxes, it's a forced loan to the state. And I do not know how this is possible and how this will be explained to the taxpayers, those who are somehow the generator of economic and indirect social development in Slovenia. And these are more than half of the taxpayers in this category. Then I would ask the Secretary-General: when will the Office for the Slovenian Language be set up, which has the planned ready resources, although they are not quite sufficient. But I want to know if that's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u169	Your Honor! Therefore, the reasons are detailed in the material, in the Rapporteur and in the paper. However, since you have already asked certain questions, perhaps just a few words about why such reasons were or what were the reasons behind such proposed legal changes. The whole point of doing business and doing business is, if I make it very easy for you to have 100 units at the beginning of your purchase, you're going to do your job, you're going to sell for 150 units. Of course, from this simple presentation of the business, in most cases the exit tax is increasing than the entry tax for most of the debtors. In certain exceptional cases, however, there is of course the situation you have been talking about. In the first place, these are exporters who will not be affected by the proposed legislative changes. This is followed by similar cases at a time during a particular tax period where the investment on the supply side substantially increases the amount of the entry tax, i.e. the surplus over the exit tax, and such a taxable person then shows the surplus in the subsequent accounting periods and settles it or transfers it back or forwards it to the next period. Another such case is specific, when taxpayers, in particular it is construction, when they initially acquire 19% of construction material, i.e. at the general level, and when they perform - say - construction services - such as building apartments - when they charge their services at a relatively small added value, 8%. In these cases, too, there are the phenomena you have been talking about. However, this is an emergency. These are specific cases. That is why, as I said, exporters are absolutely resolved because they have a permanent surplus in absolute transactions, other categories or other exceptions that I have talked about sometimes come into this situation. You yourself have said the figures that strongly support the proposal for such legislative changes, and this is the rationalisation of administrative business - not only tax administrations, but also with taxpayers. This is very important! Of course, the tax administration is the one, for which it is called, that in view of, I would say, the spending of budgetary resources in its operations should also be a warning on a more rational path. Similar solutions are found elsewhere in European countries. Not entirely, as we have proposed, but further discussion in the National Assembly will show the direction in which we will get the final version of the legislative changes. I would like to say that in the Ministry of Finance we are prepared for any different, more rational decisions in favour of the majority, both in favour of the taxpayers and in favour of the tax administration. Regrettably, there will always be individual border cases which will demonstrate this general principle and this general public interest in fact or, as a result, experience in a different light. More detailed matters or possible modalities of proposed legislative changes would, however, be followed by the adoption of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Concan. Secretary-General of the Government, Mr. Bandelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u171	The Slovenian language office is already established, and it already has a director, and on 16 March Mr Dular also started work and concluded a working relationship in this office. The fact is that the Office has not yet been fully teamed up because adequate infrastructure needs to be provided; this is ensured, and the budget for this year is also provided for in the proposal. For the time being, we are funding this from office lines, sorry, now the General Secretariat of the Government. In any case, we are counting on it to become fully operational in early April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you. Member Danica Simšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I myself intended to ask Dr Teo Petrin, Minister of Economy, what really led her, that she had changed the rules on working hours of shops so quickly, and I would not do so; not only because she is not currently in the Chamber, but also because a fellow Member and a fellow Member had already done so before me, and because the Minister has always served with her incompetence, based on the principle that all economic operators in one country must have exactly the same conditions of operation. However, I would kindly ask the Minister to reconsider her swift move, as the regulation will only enter into force next week. Of course, it is easy to understand the interest of capital owners that they will nominate themselves as soon as possible. But it meets this tendency and with one single single move to destroy the social partnership, to stop negotiating in the local self-government on the way and work of life in the local community and by means of a sub-law - I repeat, by means of a sub-legislative act! - so thoroughly cut into the way of life in the country, and it's just a little too severe. In other European countries, there have been thorough discussions between social partners, serious and hot debates in parliaments. With us, one would say, just like this, click, and obviously the national sport and cultural activity of Slovenian families will become visiting hypermarkets at the end of the week. I'm sorry, but I think this is just a little too much. And if you don't mind, it's actually a kind of cynical contribution to March 25th; that's when this rule comes into force and then it's also a mother's day. So, Madam Minister, I ask you not only to reconsider this, but also to consult more widely. However, I am devoting my second question to an important national project, which we have actually heard a lot about, but yet we do not know much, it is a reform of public administration. The question is short: when will taxpayers actually be able to wait for the realization of this project, which must be, with reference to European criteria, what we do not yet have or hope will soon be effective, rational, non-political and user-friendly? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dr. Bulgarian, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u177	Dear Mrs. Simsic! I'm ready here or I can say [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u178	Come on, please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u179	Public administration reform is taking place intensively in very different sectors. Perhaps I would like to list what is being done, what is going on, if this time allows me, but I would like to point out that these are such changes that will not take effect immediately tomorrow or the next day, so we must take into account the long-term nature of all these changes. Only in cases would I mention four, five main segments in which the area of public administration reform is taking place, so that we can get a possible picture of what is actually being done. At the normative and systemic level, in addition to the constitutional changes that will be necessary, we adopt and send several very important system laws to Parliament: the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Public Sector Wages, the Law on the Labour Area of Ministries, the Law on Administration, the Law on Government and the Law on Public Agencies. In addition to the state administration, the reform of public administration essentially includes the reform of local self-government. We are talking here about the law on local self-government and the law on the provinces. When we set up this regulatory and system framework, which will give some kind of graphing, oris the functioning of public administration, not only tomorrow, but for a longer period of time, of course we are also doing much more concrete things. Examples. One of the major pillars of reform of the state administration is education. Here, together, the administrative academy and the office of the European Affairs Office are preparing a very large and important project for the education of our administrative workers for tomorrow's performance in the European Union, the programme is very fragmented. We are working with quality foreign institutions, and these people are gaining very good knowledge that tomorrow they will also be able to represent us in the European Union. In computerization. One such measure is the Office Operations Regulation. The introduction of electronic commerce into administrative procedures. The integration of municipalities, municipal administrations into the information structure into the information backbone. Introduction of information offices to administrative units or local offices. In short, the idea that our national administration, like other European countries, will begin to operate in a modern electronic way, which means that the parties are accessible data, applications, sending, filing applications via screen, via monitor, via e-mail, via the Internet. It's the fourth area. Quality and rationalisation. Introduction of ISO standards and business excellence model in the functioning of the administration. Here are a number of sub-legislative rules that will make sure that these models are used not only in the economy but also in the state administration. In short, the state administration will also start to operate on some similar models and concepts, as we already do in the economy. In short, we will no longer have some rigid, rigid structure, but modern, flexible business, state administration. Guidelines for rationalisation and greater flexibility in employment on the identification of technological surpluses are also very important. It's very difficult for people in the government to fire, relocate, deploy. We are also preparing very important measures to enable this in different ways, which is also very important for a more flexible administration; the Regulation on Progress. And in the end, the last important segment is what some call debirocraticism. This is essentially guidance, simplification and acceleration of procedures in different areas and ministries. Let me make a few specific cases from my own ministry. These are procedures where ministries, for example, take administrative decisions, citizenship, foreigners, asylum at the first or second stage - how to shorten, how to simplify, how to speed up these procedures. So I hope I haven't been too long, but it's a very rough five major sets where the government and the ministry are preparing very concrete measures, but as I said before, they can't give results immediately tomorrow, but at some point in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question? Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs, specifically to Minister Petrinov. There have been two partial breakdowns of the system on Eles' network recently. The first major dimension took place on 6.3.2001. This is a breakdown that occurs every 20 years under international standards as a result of natural disasters. The second breakdown of the system occurred on 16.3. in the vicinity of Hrastnik. Why is there such a breakdown in the electrical system? The current leadership of Eles allowed Croatia through a long-term contract to export 350 megawatts of electricity via Slovenia. Together with our rights, this is a total of 730 megawatts. This is where wild currents occur when they uncontrolledly burst into our electricity system, so this load was 1,600 megawatts. According to the calculation of the experts, it shall carry a maximum of 900 megawatts. The Croats are, of course, worth taking advantage of the allowed quota of 450 megawatts, because they are not paying for the consumption of our transport routes, so through our system they are not raiding their own, but in the East purchased, cheaper energy, which is then very expensive to sell and serve well. Just because there is an uncontrolled pressure on electricity in our system, the above-mentioned breakdowns of our system have occurred. This just confirms the fact that the government, due to its staff clearances, has beheaded Eles, because it is unable to balance the system and all of this goes to the detriment of Slovenia. It was a 7-hour failure of the electricity system, but it is even a danger that Italy will cancel already concluded contracts with Slovenia, as we are becoming an unreliable Balkan partner. The government obviously continues to tolerate all irregularities on Eles rather than to identify subjective responsibility. At the same time as the Chamber of Commerce and the Energy Association, I wonder where Minister Petrinov is, where is the government, where the Prime Minister Drnovšek is, allowing for the irregular state of the electricity system for several months. What the government will do to make the energy sector finally secure and to prevent increasing economic damage and the reputation of Slovenia in the international electricity market. I also ask whether the government has stopped the outrageous idea of transferring energy to the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is simply an attempt to erase traces of corruption in electricity. Next question, I hope someone from the foreign ministry is. It follows from the 2001 draft budget that the government has virtually ignored the implementation of the legal obligations relating to the Slovenian minority in Italy. Thus, there will be no legal obligation to improve the visibility and visibility of radio programmes. In addition, there is only 15 million of the 30 schools in Špetr in Videmski krajina, which are in extremely poor condition, although the entry has increased. Why Slovenia, I wonder at this - it shows that it cares little about the interests and preservation of the Slovenian minority. Whether the current government is not aware of the critical strategic importance of preserving Slovenian life for the state of Slovenia, because it is a natural defender; and why the government is saving in this area for relatively small resources, while in many other areas money is "distributed" and elsewhere they are talking about legal obligations. Here, however, marriage obligations are not respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you. Who's going to answer? Mrs. Petrinova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you so much for asking. We'll answer in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u184	One more moment, please. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Simoniti, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The government certainly did not ignore the issue of Slovenians living outside Slovenia. We have an office, as you know, and the office policy of this office is the care of Slovenians around the world. Since this is a serious and difficult question, we will answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u186	Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u187	I have to literally protest the attitude of the economy ministers, i.e.: within four months of the ministry, problems arise drastically, questions are practically the same and we have not yet received an answer. I think this is a terrible underestimation of Parliament, an outrageous underestimation! And I think that Madam Minister would have something to say. In four months, it would be appropriate to answer once. She got away from the Economic Committee when we talked about this subject, so I don't know - then we don't have a ministry! The economy is deserved - rightly, feeling drained - energy. And in a country like this, it's unacceptable to have this attitude towards energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I have been asking one question in writing for January, and I still haven't received an answer, and I would now like to highlight it. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister, and not Mr Rob, Minister of Finance, I hope that someone will still answer this question. It's about, I'll just read what I wrote two months ago. A written question concerning the intentional use of the so-called petrol tolar. Years ago, the country allocated 87% of the funds raised by the gas toll to build road infrastructure. Last year, it used only 37% of the funds collected on purpose. On average, about 40% of these funds are not used for the road program. Since the funds collected by the gas toll are not used on purpose, I would like to know how much dedicated funds the State has borrowed from the gas toll. I think it's about 180 billion tolars. And when is he going to use it to build road infrastructure? If I can't get an answer because I've tried it a few times and I haven't got it, somehow I got the answers vaguely, I suggest that at least the public is told that these funds are not being used deliberately, but for something else. And why it comes to this - because the public is at least aware of it. The second question is from the field. They ask me - not only my constituents, but the voters from the Vipavska Valley and the entire valley, with the Suča – why not take advantage of the Italian affection, which is willing to co-finance the highway from Stuck to Podnanos and the tunnel under the Preděl. Some programs have already been made. Perhaps you could tell Mr Christmas more, at least as far as the tunnel is concerned. Because this Vipav problem is chaotic. I have also suggested to Mr President of the Infrastructure Committee that we go for a tour once, and we will see how we are driving along the road Razdrto - Podnanos, especially in the valley, where there is also 5 to 6 km per hour and there is a winding road, it is dangerous, it is in bad shape. When we go back and through Cole, from Col to Podród is 4 km of state road to overlay, which has been in the programme since 1997, and so far nothing has been done. As construction workers, I hope to say that if this road does not overcoat itself in at least one year, it will remain just a bulldozer and work on a new road I think it is not worth it. Presidents: Please, if you finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you. I believe the Secretary of State will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you. I sincerely apologize to the Member for not having received a written reply, given that he says he has already asked the question once. I would have tried to answer the question. The introduction of value added tax is, in fact, impossible to assess, except hypothetically, how much funding should be allocated under the applicable motorway tolar law for the construction of motorways. In 2000, the law on the implementation of the budget laid down the extent to which motorways would be financed, and in this way a link was made in some way between the applicable law on motorway tolar and the budget. This was the second paragraph of Article 9 of the law on the implementation of the budget. In a similar way, the government will also propose this year when it will submit a law on the implementation of the budget to the National Assembly. I think that the question is raised in such a way as to how much money the State has borrowed, a somewhat inappropriate question asked. It is also the case that the Motor Tolar Act provided for gas transport tax funds to flow into the state budget and that the State budget would then provide funds for the construction of motorways under the programme and, of course, on the basis of the budget. So I don't think this is really about borrowing money. The fact is that the Automobile Tolar Act is no longer directly applicable. If I have not been comprehensive enough with my answer, we will send an even more precise explanation in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Presecnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much - for your answer, of course, the answer will be known on the occasion of the consideration of the annual development plan and maintenance of motorways. That's one thing - for Razdrto - submission. Secondly, around the state road network, the answer is, of course, known from the draft budget for this year or from the final budget to be adopted by this national assembly. However, we will give a written reply on the possibility of using Italian funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u195	Yeah. We're back where we were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs. Maja Zupan. She's not here. I give my word to Mr Paul Rupar. He's not here. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Vizjak, Bogomir Zamernik, Rudolf Petan, Janez Cimperman, France Cukjati and Franc Pukšič. That concludes the application. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u197	Yes, thank you very much for the word. I refer the first question to the Minister for Transport and Communications. I ask him about the construction of the section of the highway Krška Vas - Obrežje. All I want to know is the dynamics of building this section of the highway. We know that this year's budget or that this year's budget already has some resources for preparatory work, that this is practically the final stage of the adoption of the site plan, and I think that this will fill all the formal basis for actual works. The section is also interesting from the title, I would say, the border crossing of the Coast or this border inspection post, which we will establish with neighbouring Croatia. I ask the Minister, in short, what will be the dynamics of building this section in the coming years, when we can expect the completion or completion of this section and how the work will be done by then, that is to say, annually or at least [[...]] The next question I raise to the Minister of Economy is the negotiations between the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and HEP, or the Croatian Electricity Industry. I would like to know how far these negotiations are with regard to the ownership of both sides of the Krško nuclear power plant; how with the half-off of the power plant for the Croatian electricity industry; how with the financial demands of both sides are cumulative and how these are shown separately for the period before and after the interruption of the supply of HEP to the Hep - and of course - and when, at the Ministry of Economy, they expect the completion of these negotiations with neighbouring Croatia on ownership or on the nuclear power plant itself and all the issues related to it; not least with closure, with radioactive waste. I also ask the Minister of Economy a question. In the Süštar affair, Selda Pak is expected to receive approximately SIT 27 million grants on the basis of alleged bribery. The former Minister, Dr. Zagozhen, issued a decision that somehow ordered Selda Pak to return funds obtained illegally from the bribery affair until the court ruled on the case. The question is whether the new government has implemented or requested the payment of the funds paid or, in any other way, cancelled the decision of the Minister. I also ask the Minister of Economy the following questions. The Bajuk government has adopted a regulation to transfer about one half of the assets of the Slovenian development company or companies to the pension fund. The question is whether the new government has implemented or repealed this regulation. Please also provide a written document for the implementation or cancellation. I do not expect answers today, but I would ask everyone to provide me with answers in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I think Mr. President will answer. Wrote? Madam Secretary? [[It's written.]] Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Zámernik has the floor, but he is not at the moment. Mr. Rudolf Petan, who is also not here. Mr. Janez Cimperman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! My Question [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please, fellows! [[...]] My question is brief and succinct: until when will the earthquake restoration in Bovsk be completed? On behalf of those affected, I ask for a clear and unequivocal answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will answer. Tauzes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! The earthquake recovery is now somewhere at 86% of those facilities that are identified in the law as the first priority objects. These are the facilities that are inhabited, these are the facilities where the economic activity was carried out. At the moment, the government has drafted amendments to the earthquake recovery law, which shows from these amendments that it will in fact receive financial assistance from the budget for a while, especially in the part where it does not relate to first-priority objects, but to the so-called developmental part of the earthquake aid. However, as regards these first-priority facilities, it is estimated that after 2001, this part, the first part of the earthquake recovery, will be completed as far as development projects are concerned, in accordance with the amendments, should be completed in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Member France Tsukati has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u203	Your Honor! Everywhere, even in the discussions on the budget, it is said that we are actually very concerned about public finances, public debt is rising, there is less money for salaries, there are pensions. In January's debates, we were actually limiting wage growth, pensions. And so it is well stated in the budget memorandum that in December 2000 an annex to the 1999-2001 wage policy was signed in the public sector, and on the basis of this and the blessing of this assembly, wages will be harmonised by 6.3%. Everything is nice and good, but in the budget we see a very different number for all users. Not 6.3%, but the whole pay will be paid, so the budget that we got in the treatment says - by 19.2%). This is the difference that worries me as a Member or I have begun to wonder what these numbers mean. And when I was writing through the building, looking at all sides, I found that, say, the Ministry of Finance raises wages with index 115, Ministry of the Interior 118, Ministry of Foreign Affairs 124, Ministry of Agriculture with index 124. Just pay and supplement! That's what it's called, a scrawny wager. Ministry of Environment and Space - 120.9, Ministry of Labour, Family - 119, Ministry of Education 124. So index 124.9: 24.9% and not 6.3%. And when I was trying so hard to explain why such a high figure, such a high increase in wages, I couldn't find an explanation in 19 consumers, budget books, in a fat book, with all the explanations - I found only seven users. And that's usually for those who have the lowest pay raise. Lowest wage rise. For example, administrative units spend 8 billion on salaries, index 115.9 and it says, "On the basis of the new jobs needed to increase the number of administrative tasks." Where's the explanation, say, the Ministry of Culture? Let me quote her, the whole explanation where the increase is 124.3. It says, "Paragraph 3025 Salaries. The funds are intended for salaries, contributions and other personal benefits of employees at the Ministry of Culture." That's an explanation. When I asked Minister Čokovo on the committee why education, which is a very high consumer of these funds, especially on the basis of current transfers to public institutions - 201 billion for wages, answered me or did not respond. She answered all the questions. She didn't answer that. And I'm asking -- I don't know who in this country can explain?Oh, my God! I'm asking the government, you'll know who will answer. Whether it is at the expense of such a high growth of employees, or at the expense of such a high increase in wages - which is not 6, 3, but 16,3 - or little by little these numbers are again some of the confusion we inherited from the previous budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u204	Madam Secretary of State will answer, mag. The stoner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I don't have all the materials with me because I didn't expect budget discussions here, so I apologize because I won't be completely accurate. However, the wage segment is quite detailed in the rapporteur's third volume, where the general part of the budget is explained.It is said that all the elements consist of wage growth among individual budget users, and these elements are the following: the first element is wage coordination, which is carried out in accordance with the wage agreement and has a certain dynamics. A large part of wage harmonisation took place in the second half of the year and according to mathematical logic, of course the transfer of growth in the following year resulted in a relatively high index immediately. The second element, which means an increase, is an increase due to progress, the third element is an increase due to an increase in the temporary volume of work, the fourth element is overtime, the next element is the different supplements under collective agreements. This applies in particular to salaries in the field of health, education and certain other public services covered by public institutions. And, of course, the next element is also an element of new employment, which occurred in the course of 2000. New jobs in 2001 are not covered by the projected salary level. In the rapporteur, I think that this is the third volume, you also have a representation of the number of employees at the end of 2000, by all budget users, from which you can see the actual increase in the number of employees over 2000. These are, in fact, elements that represent an increase in the number of wages per ministry and within the bodies of ministries and, of course, also in public institutions. Now I don't have numbers for specific answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to ask? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u207	Well, that the answer, as you're predicting, would be more detailed, I would ask you to take into account - the numbers that I mentioned were limited only to the net salary with supplements, no regressions, no promotions, no overtime, not the means to work as it can be called, but only the net wages. There are also explanations - there are five new employees, ten new employees, there is no explanation, and that is all I would like, but this is not a budgetary debate, but this reflects a policy of governance or economic policy in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The latter has the floor under this item of the agenda, Mr President Franz Puksič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u209	Nice greetings to the rest of you who have stayed in this hall! I have three questions. First of all, Minister for European Affairs. According to Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, local communities are those who decide voluntarily to establish regions. I ask the Minister why and on the basis of what legislation or article of the Constitution he submitted to the European Union about one month ago the division of the Republic of Slovenia into 12 regions. What does this mean, in fact, since the Constitution has not been amended in this Article. When we heard about this information, we were stunned. People are wondering what's going on with Parliament again, in short, somewhere in the backstage, and Parliament doesn't know anything about it. Second question. I ask the Minister of Justice why he did not respond to the statement made by the Attorney-General, Mrs Ceraroveva, who, at her press conference with a full name and surname, appointed a state prosecutor, against whom only a prognosis procedure was pending and therefore is presumed to be innocent. Why did you, Mr Minister, say at your press conference that no one was untouchable, but you overlooked the fact that all fair judges and honest prosecutors were untouchable, although the practice of ministers in this area was significantly different, since they did not respond when they should, in the case of Judge Šubica, who had not written his judgment for more than eight months. At that time, no one convened a press conference, not just to press charges or to conduct disciplinary proceedings. Will you take action in this regard, Mr. Minister, because in fact a major crime of damage to social property has been committed? Minister of Economy [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u210	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Article 19 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development states that the budget must be at least 1% of the gross domestic product for this area. It follows from the table and from the budget that around 4.5 billion without Phar are available together with Phari. Specifically, Madam Minister, on the line: regional development programmes, direct regional incentives FOR 2000 in the budget 2 billion, realisation 2 billion, proposal in this budget 1 billion or 50 percent. I hope you're wrong about this item. Otherwise, of course, we will have the feeling that you are simply making fun of 60 percent of the demographicly endangered area. You will say that on the item: regional development programme, regional infrastructure raised by 90 per cent. This means absolutely 400 million and a few million, on the other hand, a whole billion instead of being on these items or on these items as stated in the law on coherent regional development. I hope that this will be corrected before the budgetary debate, because otherwise the law on the implementation of the budget and the budget will run counter to the rest of the legislation, which could result in Roma legislation being brought to the Constitutional Court as well. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you. Several questions were asked. I believe that Dr Simonita from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will first respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Respectable. On European issues, as we know, these are statistical regions. And we will give you a more precise answer in writing to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs. Petrinov.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u215	Since there's also a secretary covering this area, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question, which allows me to open one really complex debate. It is true that the law on the promotion of coherent regional development has laid down that regional development funds should be doubled this year. And it is also true that you have stated that this is not the case in the draft budget. Now, of course, there is no point in discussing here that we are all limited in budgetary options. So let me tell you what we did at the Ministry of the Economy to make this law, when it speaks like that, even come true. The means to promote coherent regional development are not only within my competence, it is not only about the money that is intended for local infrastructure, but they are everywhere in all ministries. One such question has already come from a colleague, your member from the first bench today, whom we have already tried to answer. With the creation of the Ministry of the Economy, we have just achieved that this issue can be tackled in other calls for action, in calls by ministries throughout the Republic of Slovenia for various incentives: from incubators to entrepreneurial investment, to various active employment policies. This is what will bring a serious shift in regional policy, from fighting for infrastructure investments, the so-called mayoral investment, to what means coherent regional development in Slovenia. Even if we could get 500 million this year, or 400, 500, 600, even more millions, on the line of local infrastructure, which I absolutely believe would be appropriate, this would not solve the problem of coherent regional development. The problems of coherent regional development are tackled by the reform of regional policy, a new concept, the establishment of this regional policy within the European framework. And that's what we did. Finally, regional development problems are addressed by the government's direction to seriously tackle the disposal of state property and the transfer of unnecessary state property to the property of local communities, so that this unnecessary property can then be invested for development purposes by the local community. Here our ambitions are great. Here is the concept of the development of Slovenian zones, con in Slovenia. Of course, this is no longer just about rural development, but it is mainly about the development of rural areas that must be drawn into their development programmes. We have finally launched and this year we are reaping the fruits of this initiative coming from below. We have begun the preparation of regional development programmes. In the nine statistical regions, the municipalities have managed to agree on development institutions and have started to prepare regional development programmes, and of course we do not see these regional development programmes as just some general strategic thinking that we already have in Slovenia, but as the preparation of concrete projects of regions, development projects, those that can be co-financed in a new way. Thus, the preparation of projects that can also be offered by the European Union for co-financing. Allow me now, honourable Member, to answer another part of the question addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is the so-called statistical regions and the negotiations with the European Union. We have actually sent this position to the European Union at the negotiating stage. We have informed them that the Statistical Office of Slovenia has divided the territory of Slovenia into 12 statistical regions. We had to report this because there are some instruments at this level that the European Union is using to promote development. These are mainly Interrec instruments or cross-border cross-border cooperation. If Slovenia does not have statistical regions at least at this level of territory allocation, then it cannot be cross-borderly linked. We have, of course, used the solution that was politically agreed in Slovenia when the law on the promotion of coherent regional development was adopted. It says that until the formation of the provinces of the statistical region, they perform the functions of the provinces. That is exactly what we have communicated to the European Union. This concrete negotiating platform was discussed on the European Affairs Commission and on the Committee on International Relations in this Parliament, where, of course, you had the opportunity to challenge this negotiating platform at that time. I didn't make it, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. That concludes it, yes, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u219	I received no reply from the Minister of Justice, neither in writing nor orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u220	The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u221	On the last question concerning the statement made by the Attorney General, you will receive the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for the answers given, and also for the questions raised by the gentlemen and the Members. I'm telling you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u223	I have the right to an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u224	It's already exhausted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u225	No, it wasn't exhausting. You didn't give me a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u226	I'm sorry. I'm adjourning the meeting. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u227	I'm protesting this because I don't have the chance I have under the rules of procedure!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u228	Come on, please, calm down! We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m., by addressing agenda item 38, this is by electing a candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly; we will then move on to agenda item 2 and orderly to proceed. Good night!
