ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members. Mirko Zamernik, Dr. Miha Brejc, Jelko Kacin, Franc Čebulj, Anton Delak, Milan Kopushar, Andrej Gerenčer, Franc Kangler for the start of the session, Franci Rokavec for the start of the session, Janez Kramberger, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Bojan Kontič, Jože Tanko from 17:00 p.m., Aloise Peterle for the start of the session, Victory Jelinčič Trimenite and Roman Jakič for the start of the session. I politely ask for your attention, because we will determine the presence in the hall. Based on the number of cards we have on the monitor, I ask you first politely to insert the cards. We'll determine the presence. Please press the "quorum" button to determine the presence. There are 43 of us present. I think there are more of us, so once again, I'd like to ask your attention. Next time we figure out the presence! There are 47 Members and Members present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. At today's meeting, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek and other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are invited; we welcome the Minister with the Secretary of State and the Counsellor of the Government. Today's continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of item 4 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances. The assembly will then move on to the 27th item, this is a proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and stormy weather in 2001, then for the consideration of the halted 12th point, this is a proposal for a law on inspection and orderly follow-up. By notifying today's meeting, you were also informed that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, will answer the questions and initiatives of Members and Members of Parliament at 5 p.m. on questions raised by the three opposition Members. So we're going to move on to 4. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Act, Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? Mag. Anton Rop, Minister of Finance, please. Procedural proposal, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, but I have a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to postpone consideration of this law for the following reasons: The fact is that this law on public finances, which the government is proposing today to deal with, is a systemic solution to some of the issues that this National Assembly is not really aware of. The fact is that we have learned a number of things in these last days and, above all, about the Government's 2001 budget implementation report, which the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances considered a week ago. At this meeting, we unanimously asked the Government to report to the Commission and, through the Commission, also to the National Assembly on certain information that had not yet been clearly clearly provided. This is a vague picture of how it is really possible to implement the budget in the way it is foreseen by the government. The fact is that there are certain questions on the revenue and expenditure side that require answers. In such a way that the government, in other words, the Ministry of Finance has agreed to this and has promised us that by the end of the month, or now in the coming days, I am not making any trouble on my own, as far as this is concerned, that it will provide us with additional information, based on the information it will receive and received for the month of July and August. These are revenue in key tax revenue indents and also some expenditure, such as ambiguities with some budgetary users, such as the Ministry of Interior and others. At the same time, we know from the reports we have read in the media that certain revenues, such as UMTS, will not be made in 22 billion, as foreseen in the document, otherwise because this will be paid in two instalments, one this year and one next year. On the other hand, we know that in the last decision of the PIZ, and by increasing pensions by a very large sum, it will also require additional funds from our budget for this year. So, in our view, it is irresponsible from an economic point of view and it is really pointless for the National Assembly today to decide on systemic solutions to problems that we are not yet aware of, as fully as we should be, so that we can actually do this work. Of course, we have a certain view of the proposal for a law on public finances, but we feel it would be pointless for this debate to develop here today, because we are not aware of the reality of the situation as a national assembly. There is no point in looking for systemic solutions to problems whose dimensions we do not know. So I formally propose a procedural proposal to postpone this point until the National Assembly is informed of all the information that is coming and that we do not have it yet, but it is clear that I do not know if the Ministry of Finance already has it. So, we would like to see this, and not just us, as members of the Commission or this parliamentary group, I think that this is necessary for the responsible functioning of the entire national assembly. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. To summarise, Dr. Bayuk - your proposal - the procedural proposal is based on Article 73(2) - it is on behalf of the Group of Members that you propose that the debate and decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act be postponed to one of the following meetings. This is the only possible procedural proposal that can be made at this stage for the law that we are considering in a rapid procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	Can I fix it? Thank you very much. In fact, it is of no importance to me if it is at this sitting or at the next meeting. Once we have this information, we can debate it. If this information comes in time, even during this session, I have no problem not doing so during this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Such a procedural proposal in accordance with Article 64, paragraph 5, cannot be discussed by Members and an explanation of vote, but a representative of the Government proposing this law and of the parliamentary group may be identified before this procedural proposal. Mag. Tone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, in fact, it is not a question of the implementation of the 2001 budget, but it is a systemic change proposed by the government before we begin to prepare and coordinate the final draft budget. This is a systemic change that will allow for the consideration and adoption of two budgets in Slovenia. It's a two-year budget. I would say that these two mothers are actually separate and independent. We have previously proposed this and think that this is a long-term, systemic solution that will allow the adoption of two annual budgets in Slovenia in the future. However, as regards the ongoing implementation of the budget and the preparation of the budget, I can say that all these documents are ready for all the balance sheets, both pension and health, but this has nothing to do with this systemic solution that we now and here propose. I therefore propose, of course, that you address these systemic solutions in order to enable us to adopt two budgets. However, the whole issue of the implementation of the 2001 budget will, of course, be dealt with when we consider the 2002 and 2003 budgets, if this is how you decide on systemic solutions. Even if it were only a one-year budget, this same discussion, the implementation of the 2001 budget, would be dealt with in any way when adopting the 2002 budget. And already in the document you have and it's in the rapporteur, you have information about the realisation. So it'll be seen. However, this is a subject that, once again, I stress, is the subject of consideration when adopting a budget where, of course, it will be necessary to determine the reality of the assumptions for concrete budgets rather than the reality of the possibility of a two-year budget. A two-year budget can be adopted if you so systematically decide and jointly decide. We believe that this is systemicly meaningful, there are many arguments for this, and we will also present them when, of course, we have this topic on the agenda and when we can address this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Just allow me, Dr. Bayuk, to ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups before this, if they wish to define themselves before this procedural proposal, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have an opportunity to further explain your procedural proposal at the end of 5 minutes. Does any of the parliamentary groups want to be defined? Here you are, Mr Janša, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. We support this proposal. The fact is that the two-year budget has already been announced very early, not least formally in the coalition contract under which the government is drawn up, is said more than half a year ago. However, the government did not send this law to the National Assembly until 6 September this year, a law that the Finance Committee had to make almost entirely and is still not good and still has no answers to some questions. So it is certainly not Parliament's fault that we are in time trouble, that the law came just before the laborers, talking about extremely important things. The government should know that it is first necessary to create the systemic basis for a two-year budget and for changes in this area and then to propose specific figures. Thus we have received to Parliament a two-year budget, or a specific number, which does not have a legal basis in the Public Finance Act, nor do we have in the old or the new rules a procedure designed to accept it. So, please, if we take some more time to think about these things, and we do have a decent way of doing them, but above all, we would need information on what the government's findings suggest at all, such as the possibility of increasing the short-term debt from 5 to 8 percent, and so on. These are important matters and require preliminary answers before we decide on the content of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I am also giving the floor to Dr Andre Bajuk as a proposal for a procedural proposal to further explain it, and then we will vote on it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to draw attention to what Mr Minister has now explained to us that this is indeed a solution to the systemic character. But the question is and still exists - a solution to what? Do we know what we're saving, or do we even know who we're saving? The fact is that the state of our public finances is not what we saw last time we adopted the 2001 budget in this Chamber. In these last days, the government has acknowledged that there has actually been a different deficit, which we are now taking public. The question is whether we can solve, if we do not know what we are solving, and there is also a solution to such problems, there are different solutions. For example, this National Assembly can decide to rebalance, to fully review the situation, to really know where we are and where we are going, and then to lay solid foundations, just what the Government wants to achieve and which I can abstractly agree with. In view of the fact that we will only achieve greater transparency and stability in this country as regards the preparation of the budget. I can't help but say hello for something like this to come true. However, if we have decided to build a two-storey apartment, yes, please let us consider whether we have the right basis for such a construction that we now want to address, we have solutions to problems that we do not know what they really are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal to postpone the debate and decision on the matter under consideration to one of the following meetings shall be put to the vote. I'm sorry. [[Deals from the bench.]] In view of the findings - the parliamentary groups had the opportunity to explain their views, unfortunately, the proposal has an opportunity to be defined in an additional five minutes. [[...]] That is all that at the time I gave the opportunity no parliamentary group, other than the Social Democratic Group, spoke. [[...]] We are therefore moving on to a vote on the procedural proposal, as I have presented it. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a presentation of the bill. Mag. Anton Rop, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Dear Members and honourable Members! The debate on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on public finances on the home committee was quite comprehensive, at least a very clear impression was that there was practically no Member who would not support the adoption of a system-wide solution, after which it would be possible to adopt a budget for two years in Slovenia. Certainly this concept confirms and deepens the concept of multi-annual public funding planning, which has already been introduced in Slovenia, in particular through the adoption of a concept whereby in Slovenia, together with the budget, we adopt plans for development programmes. The implementation of such systemic solutions, as proposed, of course, represents an important step forward. The proposal allows for the simultaneous adoption of two annual budgets, which, if adopted over the next two years, will, in our view, allow for a significantly more transparent monitoring of, in particular, the adoption of new public financial commitments. If such commitments are to be made in the meantime, the current budgets will, of course, need to be changed, the rebalancies will be needed, changes will be needed and different expenditure, different priorities will be needed, with all priorities and all expenditure, and that is, of course, essential. There will be significantly less opportunities to adopt new and new contractual obligations, legal obligations and, of course, to define an ever-increasing part of the budget as a fixed part of the budget. Analysis shows that in recent years this part of the budget has grown year after year and that, in fact, there has been fewer and fewer room in the budgets for so-called development works, because during the year and in the meantime new commitments have been made, and when individual budgets have been adopted, in fact, very much more discussion has not been possible because most of this has already been pre-determined and this pre-destination is up to 80 per cent at this point. The government has decided to draw up a budget for two years following the consideration of the budgetary memorandum and, of course, followed this decision in the concrete preparation of the budgets for 2002 and 2003, which we sent to the National Assembly. Today is followed by all the remaining documentation, data on the financial plans of the remaining cash registers, privatisation plan. In short, all that is necessary to complete the dossier accompanying the adoption of both budgets. The preparation of budgets has further demonstrated the relevance of such an approach, in particular by significantly facilitating the identification of longer-term policies in specific areas and by facilitating the provision of funding for the development priorities set by the Government. The 2003 cut itself shows that most of the budget can be earmarked for development priorities, that we have been able to identify a large part of the 2003 budget and, of course, give it a place in the part that allows greater flexibility, especially in the field of reserves and also in the area of current reservations. In short, our assessment is that it is already a practice, and you will see for yourself in the discussion, has shown how very meaningful it is to adopt two-year budgets. Of course, it is likely that practice will continue to show, according to our assessment, how difficult it is, of course, to accept new contractual and financial obligations and how very transparent such a new acceptance is in the future. In the introduction, this seems very reasonable to me, in particular in response to some of the discussions and also to the opposition's comments that have been justified, I must say this, in particular to the Government's agreement with the amendment tabled by the home committee. The discussion on the parental committee showed that the proposed liquidity debt over 2001 was not meaningful. Of course, we agree with this debate on the Committee and support this amendment of the parent committee, and we do not see the need for this level of liquidity debt to be greater for the next few years than in the current system solution. What seemed reasonable to us is, of course, in 2001, in which we are still faced with the transfer of part of the funding resources in January and thus with the liquidity downturn of certain revenues, which, of course, results in a greater liquidity debt that we are cancelling in the following year, and therefore, of course, there is no need for increased liquidity debt in the following year. And that is why, I reiterate, we support the amendment of the home committee. Otherwise, the government supports all the amendments of the parent committee. It suggests that they be accepted by the National Assembly. We propose that you adopt this proposal for amendments to the law and, of course, that we then proceed in the coming days to actively prepare the two budgets, the 2002 budget and the 2003 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law at its meeting on 19 September, and, in doing so, we proposed some amendments or improvements to the bill, particularly in terms of the secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters, in a rather extensive and substantive debate. At the next meeting, we have thus drafted amendments to the Committee at 1, 2, 2a, 4, 6, 7, for a new Article 9a and Article 10a and for a new Article 10a. With these improvements, we have essentially summarised the debate on the Committee and thus the comments contained by both the secretariat and the opposition. The Committee has also drafted a new Article 10, the amendment to Article 10, where we have summarized the Government's amendment and improved it editorially. I therefore propose that the assembly adopt the proposed amendment of the law together with the amendments of the committee. The Committee has not identified up to three amendments tabled by Ambassador Zalokar Orzmova since we have adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 4. However, we suggested to our colleague that he should duly transform his amendments into amendments to the amendments to the Committee's amendments. It has also done so and I propose that, although the Committee has not discussed or decided on these amendments, it is also appropriate to support them in accordance with the majority will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the representatives of the secretariat for legislation? [[They don't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Minister and Government Representatives! In the Social Democratic Party, we have devoted a lot of time to this amendment of the Public Finance Act, because it is a major systemic change. It is true that the Minister has, in part, taken quite a uniform and broad support for the idea of multi-annual budgetary planning. However, as on the Committee on Finance, it is also appropriate to confirm and say here: that multi-annual budget planning is possible only on the basis of clear and good bases, foundations and, of course, on the basis of a clearly defined vision. That is why I also say and repeat here the position of the Social Democratic Party towards such multi-annual budgetary planning. First, if we are to start planning any matter, we need to know clearly the baseline or analyse the situation we are in. It is difficult to imagine such planning without considering and seriously discussing the implementation of the budget for the first half of this year, and to determine in fact whether some of the expectations that were announced last year or at the beginning of this year are forecasted for this budget, whether they are real or true and whether they are sufficient basis for future planning. We ourselves see that the many macro-fiscal objectives or parameters that were set at the time of the adoption of the 2001 budget are already completely unrealistic. This is demonstrated by both inflation and the budget deficit, which is more than twice as high as planned or projected for the whole year, according to the report. On this subject, there was a broad and intense discussion also with the monitoring commission, but I do not believe that the arguments presented there, about us coming to the bad 50 billion tolars with a deficit, did not convince us. This means that it is possible, once again, to plan only with a clear picture of where we are, to see whether our public finances are healthy or sick or dying. And only with a precise picture can we plan ahead. This is the first condition for, I would say, a good traveller to multi-annual or two-year budget planning. Another important topic which should serve and should be the accompanying document of such multiannual budgetary planning is the coordinated and somehow realistic mandate or some medium-term budgetary memorandum, for at least three, four-year period, which should also have consensus and acceptance in this national assembly. We believe that such a budgetary memorandum should define basic macro-fiscal objectives and some basic picture of the movement of basic parameters of public finances, such as the level of the budget, the level of inflation, the amount of the deficit or even the surplus, and that, later on, the budget would be a multi-annual budget only implementing act of this budgetary memorandum. In the Social Democratic Party, we are convinced that the budgetary memorandum is not only an act of government, it is not only something the government sets out, but then it seeks support for partial solutions or for implementing solutions to this budgetary memorandum in the State Assembly through the adoption of the budget. We therefore believe and support this view that the budgetary memorandum must be considered and, of course, adopted by some measure in the National Assembly and that even later budgets are somehow implemented or implemented by this planned strategy. The third issue we are missing again may refer to the budgetary memorandum or it is a special document, but it sets out some medium-term priorities for the development of our country. This is said to be priorities, which areas and which directions of action in Slovenia will we undermine. Is this going to be an education, or is this going to be a health care, or is this going to be a highway building? In short, a broad and, of course, medium-term development strategy. Only on the basis of these three foundations can we make a successful and good multi-annual budget, but I stress, on the contrary, as the government does. I have a feeling that budget planning in Slovenia is going from below, that somehow the ministries are proposing a list of their wishes, that when we put these desires together, we find that, of course, there is a substantial lack of money for all these desires and finally we begin cutting. And we cut so little on average, and unfortunately we come to the end of the result, which we know in advance, is unrealistic. For cut is that which shall not be cut. Usually, certain items are also deliberately less valued than we know that they will eventually stop or that they will demand money. That is why, later in the implementation of this budget, there is usually a complication. This is a story that lasts and lasts in our country. And such a systemic change by introducing multi-annual budgetary planning will not solve the matter, because the foundations and foundations are not adequately resolved. While in principle we do not oppose such multi-annual budgetary planning in the Social Democratic Party, we stress that these three assumptions need to be clearly defined in advance. I would also like to point out that the urgency or current pursuit of certain deadlines is very difficult for us to understand that this system law is once again proof of some unconstitutional policy. Because we are also in the process of amending the Rules of Procedure and amending the Constitution, but these changes do not go in the way of sounding. We know that we will have to adapt the rules of procedure again to these amendments to the Public Finance Act, but we have not done so. We will now adopt this law, and we have one more year of time to reshape and adapt the changing rules. I think that this incoherence of action is unacceptable and, of course, requires new and new corrections just adopted. I'd touch on the problem of debt. The debt was basically proposed, from 5 per cent to 8 per cent, now the government has corrected this and is talking about short-term liquidity debt this year for these additional 3 per cent, which is 30 billion more. This in numbers represents a good 30 billion more, and I think we can also imagine and wonder if this solution can't actually be some kind of mask or way that these problems with an unrealisticly planned deficit will somehow blur out next year and, of course, give rise to a vague picture for the coming years. It is difficult for us to listen to or support such purposes. I would also like to highlight the proposal that all indirect budgetary users should make [[Public institutions, municipalities and many others that are users, indirect users of public funds]] , entered the so-called single treasury system, which means that the Ministry of Finance or the relevant service would have access to their free resources. This means that not only would the financial functioning of these indirect budgetary users be initiated but, of course, also of the business banks where these public institutions or these indirect budgetary users have open accounts. In doing so, I would address the issue to the Government as to how the implementation of the provisions of amended Article 61, while not yet clearly defined rules of the game, means legal solutions and sub-legislative solutions that would somehow regulate this payment transaction or regulate the implementation of this system-wide amendment of the Public Finance Act. I would also touch on the concluding topic, which is the one for which the government in our party has always believed that it is not adequately resolved - these are, in particular, the excessive powers of the government in reallocations and in interventions to the revised budget. We are convinced that if the National Assembly is the one that accepts the budget, that the National Assembly is also the one that can change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we were actively involved both in the creation and design of the idea of changes and additions to the Public Finance Act and in the completion of the individual provisions of this Act. We will, of course, support this bill, not just that, we believe that we have waited a long time for such a change in the Public Finance Act to be a very welcome change that will introduce a greater degree of long-term sustainability and rationality in the planning of budgetary users. The multi-annual planning dimension required by the two-year dimension of the budget brings the planning approach for budget users to those who need to plan their business in larger economic systems as well as smaller companies. Therefore, we believe that one of the basic qualities, the advantages of this proposal, is that it will help to increase the rationality of spending on budgetary users. The current indication in the preparation of the 2002 and 2003 budgets, with projections for further years, has shown that this approach is more rational and longer-term to put development projects in place and perhaps easier to resolve some disagreements, to harmonise the dynamics surrounding the construction of certain infrastructure facilities, so that we will support the draft law together with all amendments in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Ferri Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister, secretary of state and other present! As soon as we received the bill, in the Joint List, we considered that it was essentially his intention to say that some of the solutions that were either not best or even questionable, and that is also no secret, and we warned them in the coalition debates immediately at the beginning. These comments were also taken into account or were subsequently taken into account on the working body, both by the position and by the opposition colleagues and colleagues, and are now, so to speak, covered by the amendments of the Committee. We will therefore support the bill and support the proposals of the amendments of the Committee, which essentially eliminates the shortcomings that have been expressed since the debates, which we have warned ourselves about at the outset. These include, in particular, the adoption procedure in the National Assembly, where it is the proper provision that this is a matter of procedure, not a law. Other things are so arranged. Furthermore, in particular for the adoption of the budget changes for the following year or for the second financial year, if I may say so, we also found the rebalancing solution inappropriate. And this solution, which is now proposed, is much more appropriate. And also the question whether it is only for the next two years, whether it is a system, and if it is a system that can actually be accepted as an obligation or as a way of working in the coming years, and this is covered in the amendments. These solutions seem appropriate to us. However, I cannot help but say that it is necessary to acknowledge that there are partly legitimate comments that the adoption of a system law on the budget is so important, despite the fact that its basic purpose is good that time is, regrettably, little and that, of course, there is a need for maximum good will and cooperation, and this has actually been expressed in the work so far, especially in the home labour body, and that, given that we are in time distress, we are simply not left with any other than the law adopted, even if it is not ideal, as it is to be late with the adoption, the treatment and adoption of budgets. The fact is, the current situation is the worst. In fact, when we have national programmes on the one hand, we have developmental, tolar laws that are not in line with the real possibilities, with budget projections for several years, and then we have had, we remember, every year a grueling debate and we have been dissatisfied because these programmes and these laws were not even taken into account in the budget because they could not be easy, but there was never enough political will to harmonise national programmes, laws with real revenue projections and possible expenditure. Progress in this amendment to the law and the planned adoption of two annual budgets is at least that, as has already been said, it will be actually clearer, more binding for at least the next two years, the programmes, especially greater investments and other larger programmes, will be defined. When we look at solutions in other countries that solve these things, we see that these solutions are different. We have recently had an opportunity to see how Sweden is preparing its budgets, and we have seen that it actually has three annual budgets, with the first fixed, the second not so concrete and has frameworks set and main purposes, 27 purposes and the third mainly this global framework. And then every year, in view of changes in macroeconomic indicators and economic movements, despite the fact that conditions are more stable there than they are with us, then they also go into changes in a similar way as is proposed here. All right, the Germans have a different way of adopting annual budgets, but it is worth stressing that they are adopting a specific multi-annual investment programme, which is actually an integral part of the budget and is actually also in force, we could say that some quasi-annual budget in this investment area. The issue that will still be debated, the idea that has also been discussed so far and mentioned here and also seen in Sweden, is that they actually deal twice a year with the proposal for a three-year budget, namely in the spring when they deal with macroeconomic policy - this is something like our memorandum - and set the indicative proportions of the global budget and the main objectives, and then, in autumn, they adopt the final budget or final budgets for three years. This is a matter that seems, even in the light of experience so far, also good for us, so it is necessary to see whether it is still possible to incorporate it into this law or if it is possible to introduce this practice in law-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members and distinguished Mr Minister and fellow Members! Our Group supports the amendment and amendment of the Public Finance Act prepared by the Government and discussed by the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. In particular, we agree that we will have a budget for the next two years and know how we will manage and live in this period for two years, what we will build, what we will develop, and what our future life prospects will be, that we will also have a financial plan for a health insurance institution, which we think is very important, because this results in many of our rights and also our obligations and opportunities, and a pension and disability insurance institution. Above all, it seems important to us that our pensioners will not live in constant fear of what will happen in a month or two, or what will happen next year, as with pensions in recent years. It also seems worth mentioning that it is good that all the public funds and agencies whose founder is a country will plan long-term in advance, as it is also part of our common needs and tasks. With regard to the budgets of municipalities or local communities, we are, in principle, planning or accepting a year, that is, a year ahead. We do not, however, oppose the possibility that the budget of the local community is adopted for two years, but not beyond the limits of the mandate, in order to avoid the use of the budget itself for certain political purposes before the year of the elections. However, this possibility of a two-year budget should certainly be enshrined in the municipal statutes, and if a municipality or local community decides to do so, it will also be democratically adopted in the Statute and will then plan to do so. We are aware that any budget, especially those for two years ahead, is doomed to certain uncertainties and is likely to experience certain changes and additions every year. We think this will be easier to do because the main framework and the budget will have and we will change what we will find on the basis of analyses and reports on the implementation of the budget in the past year and we will make it easier to change and complement only those items. It seems important to me that local communities will be able to plan more easily, so they will adopt their plans in a particular area if they know what the country will plan in a particular area, which is also closely related to local community plans. We also draw attention to all caution and seriousness in the issue of country indebtedness, as well as local community debt and over-budgeting. We are of the opinion that change is beneficial for the country, so I support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary and both escorts! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My comment will be relatively brief because most of this has already been said by Dr. Bayuk. However, I would like to emphasise some things. First of all, I'd say we're dealing with the emergency needs of the country here. Although this has not been mentioned so much earlier, it seems to me that, despite the fact that we are adopting the budget for the following year, what are the needs of the State in view of the implementation of the budget for the year 2001. It seems almost impossible for a person to rationally process this thing and decide, because if we do not know how the government has implemented the budget this year, we will be so much more difficult to know what is really necessary to make the needs of our citizens and our countries truly come true. I don't know what the solution is. If we adopt this budget for the following year, then we will get a report on the implementation of this budget for this year, whether we will then go to modify this new budget or not. It seems to me that there is one weakness in the back here called the budgetary strategy and certain criteria that the government cannot then change, nor can the ministry. It seems to me that this budgetary strategy is compromised if negotiations or trade are not only with ministers but also with coalition parties. I have noticed that a large part of the budget growth for next year is in increased salaries. I wonder - when Slovenia visited the International Monetary Fund Commission in the spring, he said, "When and who will tell your people that it will be necessary to tighten the belt?" My opinion was back then, "Nobody's got this turret." However, we come to the point that sooner or later we will have to do this and tell people that we will have to tighten the belt. We have received a draft budget at the table this end of the week without any explanation. Of course, this is wrong in this system, because the position, the government coalition has a lead, that's what the government wants, that's what it supports. However, we do not have this and we have to behave according to other criteria, that is to say, how much changes are proposed or budgeted for the benefit of Slovenian people, citizens, taxpayers and, of course, countries. Let me mention just two things from the proposed amendments to this law. I have never really understood well, and this is my personal fault, let me say that despite being in these years, one still learns and hopes to learn something: How will this treasure account work, as proposed? Will this treasury account or accounts be in the bank of Slovenia, so then the ministry, in my opinion, is it not clear to me, to decide where these surpluses are going? It is said that the minister will have full authority to favour which banks he wants and so on. If I'm wrong, I'd be very happy to be wrong. The second point is, of course, liquidity loans in Article 68, liquidity loans in free cash, of course under the conditions laid down by the law. And we don't know what this law will be. And the question is, under what criteria. Let me conclude by saying that I wish the Minister great happiness in that - somewhere I have read - he predicts that in three years all the deficit will be gone and we will have a surplus. I have seen many budgets of economic enterprises, not so many state budgets, but budgets have often been adopted there for five years. Of course, the longer the budget went, the more sunny it looked. After you got there that year, you saw there were a lot of shadows and clouds on those predictions. If that happens, I will be very happy and our party will be happy, not just our Slovenian people. So if he really has to cover all these holes, so to speak, all these deficits and so forth, we'll be happy. We wish you good luck with that. In addition, we would also like more information, so that this budget, without having an analysis of the implementation of the budget this year, we will have to do everything we can to find the holes that are probably in the budget. Our Group of Members will be very critical not only of this law, but also of the budget, and we will see what the whole thing looks like together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear fellows, fellows. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State and representatives of the executive branch. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act is acceptable in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group as a legal basis for the preparation and adoption of budgets for the next two years. The news that is supposed to bring what all my predecessors have already been talking about is some healthy, real funding from this country and its citizens for the next two years. But already in this sentence I have repeated what I have to because we are so agreed, which the predecessors are also - the foundation. Whenever we talk about foundations in different areas, we ask ourselves whether we are going to build a house on the foundations of an old house or if we are going to tear down only half the old house and build a new house. Many say that sometimes it is cheaper and more healthy to build a new house on solid foundations. In our client too, we want to hear and learn what these are based on. Even if we know that they're a little bit May on one side or the other, at least we'll know that there's a pilot wall to be built there. We also believe that such a way of adopting a two-year budget should mean good for all those who are sick of temporary funding. It will certainly be good to avoid voicing after that, as a result of the untimely budgets adopted each year, temporary funding, a lack of resources and then difficulties are drawn from year to year. Let's hope this doesn't happen. Mr Minister has ensured that there will be significantly fewer opportunities to assume different obligations and that it will be easier to identify and facilitate decision-making. We can believe that, too. The essential question that we will not be going to micro-level in the Slovenian National Party is whether it will be a one-year, two-year or three-year budget, or whether it will be possible to finally respect all the legally accepted financial obligations. And is it not to fear that the excessive powers of the government to redistribute funds would cause exactly what we fear and what I first asked myself? So, still, no matter what happens, the most important thing for us is whether or not the legally accepted financial obligations will be respected. We will not interfere and oppose a new way of working if those basic conditions are met, I believe, including colleagues from coalition and opposition parties. Some basic and healthy foundations and some fair review for, if this is the case, two or three years. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. As I have not received written discussions on the debate, the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listened to these discussions, I was tired of something that would be considered at any time, not just when the budget was being adopted. That's three things when we make a plan. First of all, it's an exact, accurate and fair planning. True, sometimes they say so. The second is, of course, respect for what happens then, that the one who has accepted this plan, and someone else, to carry it out, to report it with dignity, to give it credible data, so that even the boat can change in any way, its direction, but not by setting completely irrelevant courses in the beginning, and then simply by blurring the contours. And the third is the responsibility. That's the third thing I wanted to stress. Okay, we agree, I agree with the two-year budget myself, but at the end of the two-year period, I will demand responsibility. Not avoiding responsibility for oil derivatives, because of this and this, things have broken down. If the government is seriously relying on macroeconomic experts and these statements, then, of course, it has to hold this. And if that does not happen, then it is normal not to ask the opposition, or I, for responsibility, but that whoever is responsible for the implementation, which has the responsibility of implementation, put it in advance. And that's what we build a building on. Budget long-term or multi-annual budget planning only makes sense in some cascade system and that, as this year is more distant, it is all the more unclear. But if we look at the situation presented by the government, then we see that, in fact, this year's plan is the most hazy and also its implementation. For next year and 2003, the situation appears to be much clearer. There is no need to rush because we are in distress, as said fellow Member Horvat, because of this we do not have to accept because we are in a hurry. We need to adopt the budget and we will accept it because it has to be a useful document for Slovenia. With regard to short-term indebtedness to increase this rate. Actually, it doesn't matter if they run out of "spages", then there will be a proposal for a change, where we raise from 8 to 10 or from 10 to 15, by a nice old habit and by way of voting. Therefore, such restrictions, which are already foreseen in advance not to be met, due to unusual, unexpected situations, I do not know, are irrelevant. Then we'll just have work, acceptance and change, administration for whom I don't know. And that is why it is important to stick to what we initially set and the third point, responsibility. And I'll tell you, I won't forget, I'll demand responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Since no one wants Mr Pukšič anymore, please, but you are always waiting for me to close the general debate almost. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I wasn't waiting for you to finish the general debate, but I expected someone else to come forward. Of course, I am particularly interested in the consequences and amendments to Articles 6, 7 and 9. Article 6 states, among other things, "in the second paragraph, delete, etc. and which consist of a system of the unitary treasury account of the municipality." I am with the proposed amendments, i.e. completely new, and I hope that those who have introduced the amendment of the law have therefore read the whole law, because here they are completely new to some of the obligations. Above all, two are important for the local community. One is that all accounts of municipal budgets are included in Banka Slovenije; the other is that the mayor of the municipality can therefore decide to include the accounts of the municipality directly into the single treasury account system of the country. If the second amendment is in force that the mayor of the municipality can take such a decision, then Article 9 states that the trap, of course on the basis of such a decision, will be added in a manner and under conditions laid down by the Minister responsible for the finances. So, we don't know anything about what would happen if the mayor decided they didn't go to the treasury account. However, if the funds go to the treasury account, then the budgetary municipalities, then the following are the facts. Look. Business banks will now have no interest in giving municipalities any credit on more favourable terms than they have now given. By means of business banks, the financing of municipalities ran and the accounts of the municipality were opened at business banks. I'll be very specific. In the municipality you subsidize the interest rate for some activity in the municipality according to the budget, you make a call, etc. And then you talk to business banks and negotiate that this interest rate is as low as possible, because then, of course, you raise or get substantially more funding for the new investment cycle. If that happens, business banks will have no interest. The fact is that this will also increase the influence of Banka Slovenije, because in fact all the funds will be at Banka Slovenije. These articles are so general or so written that we do not know what solutions will be. If it were possible to make a decision, as it says, the mayors make their own decisions, but then Article 9 should explain what the conditions set out by the Minister in this case will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please. Then Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! I have some specific comments or questions. First of all, Article 3, second paragraph. The first paragraph of Article 3 of the present Article 28 speaks and specifies exactly the time limit for the Government to submit a draft annual budget to the National Assembly. In the second paragraph, however, this deadline is not clearly and explicitly defined. Probably should be the word "must" here, too. Within 30 days of the submission of the State budget or the mayors must submit a proposal for a municipal budget. The fact is, in Slovenia there are quite a few or many municipalities that accept budgets either in the middle of the year or even later. I think it is necessary here in some way to settle this issue, to be more clearly committed to the law as well. The second question has already been raised in part by Mr Pukšič. This is the question of so-called Articles 6, 7, 8, which, of course, refers to the possibility of a single treasury account of the State or the congregation. This raises one question, because I have faced these ideas several times. In fact, I think that the attempt here at state level, as well as at the level of the municipality, is that the country could intervene on liquidity issues, or on the other hand the municipality, after the so-called free money of legal persons owned by a state or owned by a municipality. Article 7 of the bill explicitly states: "The revenue from the management of the free money and the costs incurred in the provision of liquidity in the single treasury account system of the State or municipalities shall be the revenue or expenditure of the state or municipal budgets or legal persons included in the single treasury account system." Here I would really ask for an answer, or this means that, if such a dictatorship is adopted, at the level of the municipality or state, these funds can simply be an integral part, a free state or municipal budget. Because if that's what it is, then I think that this proposal probably went in the wrong direction after my assessment. In some ways, then, the independence of a particular entity, whether owned by the State, may even play a role as a more dependent entity on the State or the municipality. I would therefore in fact ask for an explanation of this Article 7 because I think it is probably very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. In doing so, too, Article 7, it is said in the design of these free resources, a single system [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] the account had one question for the minister or possibly for the secretariat. [[...]] I would also like to know if this is not the case now, perhaps even the formation of a new bank. Does the Ministry have such powers under existing legislation - this is more for the secretariat to be able to lend money under certain conditions under these freedoms [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] funds. [[...]] If you'll excuse me. On the other hand, I would ask if, or within what time frame, these free funds are now to be collected in a single account, at what time, since it does not appear here, then the Ministry will release these funds to the user if they are to be urgently needed. Now, if it happens to be 30 days or 60 days or something like that, I don't know what time it is for you to do it. Here, according to my assessment, even some delay in the payment or repayment of these funds can be made, and this is now, I suppose, I can be wrong, but if this is 20, 30, 40 billion, in fact the state budget will provide itself with some kind of free money that it will be able to turn forever. If this is, let's say, 30 or 40 billion, or more, I don't know, tell me how much of this means is, if you can say, it's going to be able to rotate them for a period of time, and it's actually going to provide some more spending if I can also define it in the final phase. I would ask that you try to answer my question or explain it to me, because these hands are not written here and I don't know, in fact, what time it will be possible to return. Whether it's on call or something. I'd also like to ask if I can get an answer, because now that no one was able to tell on the finance committee, maybe you already know. In Article 10, when it comes to any additional debt, if you already know roughly how many of these differences are then essentially between the rights to use principal payments and these currency fluctuations. How much money is there, how much money do you expect to be owed here, whether it's actually more than 3% of 5 to 8 or less of what it is in the form of money, let's say, I don't know how many billion. If you'd tried to explain this to me, if you'd studied these things since you couldn't tell the board how much of this increased debt is. Maybe these questions if I could get some answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The answer will be given to you by the mag. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps, first of all, with regard to the single treasury account, or with the amendments and additions to Articles 6, 7 and 8, which referred to the questions raised by all three Members in the previous discussion. As far as the single treasury account is concerned, this change, which we are introducing here, is actually an opportunity for indirect budgetary users to be included in the single treasury account in addition to direct budgetary users, providing for the gradual integration of indirect budgetary users. The indirect budgetary users are defined in the Public Finance Act and the list of indirect budgetary users is set out in a specific Regulation. In addition, it provides an opportunity for municipalities that assess that it is appropriate for them to make it easier for them or for them to operate cheaply may also be included in a single treasury account. There is certainly no obligation here that municipalities must do so. If they consider this to be appropriate, they may decide to include in a single treasury account which will function in some way as a bank, which means that the free liquid assets of individual entities to be included in the single treasury account will, of course, be placed in banks, and will obtain the corresponding interest which they will then distribute to all users or to all entities included in the single treasury account on the basis of the period when those funds were included in the single treasury account and on the basis of the interest rates achieved. Of course, it is also intended to lend these funds under generally more favourable conditions than the individual entity could reach at the bank. As I say, indirect budgetary users are supposed to be gradually involved in the single treasury account, depending on how quickly the payment transport reform will be implemented, and at this point the municipalities are in fact an option and each municipality will decide whether it is appropriate or not, or not, whether or not it applies to the change in the payment system as it was. Perhaps even with regard to the question raised at the end, exchange rate differences. This year, I have already talked about this quite a bit on the Finance Committee, this year, these negative exchange rates were around 3 billion 400 by the end of August. By the end of the year, of course, there will also be positive exchange rates according to the system, how this is managed and, in fact, at the end of the year, we will be able to tell what the real difference is between negative and positive exchange rates. At this point, there's a section of the state that doesn't reflect the entire image of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I find this idea of a two-year budget interesting because it is also more predictable for all those who follow this state budget. However, I would like to draw attention to the findings of the Court of Auditors, which were recorded at the time of the review or in the report on the work of the Court of Auditors for 2000, on page 54, in the Rapporteur, this year, No. 37. And if I quote, it literally says this: "It is not possible to overlook the fact that the Public Finance Act is completely unadapted to the congregations, even though it is supposed to be used directly. Of course, there is nothing better than the regulations adopted on the basis of the law." In view of the fact that the Minister of State explained in the introduction that this is a matter of systemic change and that, since the publication of this report on 11 May, it has been a long time, we would also expect appropriate amendments to the Public Finance Act in this direction. However, all these proposals and amendments are not adapted, so I do not think they will allow for any improvement in this area. The municipalities will still function, I would say a little bit more in their own way, but not in accordance with the Public Finance Act. The findings of the Court of Auditors will also be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Although I thank you for the answers given, as general as they were, they are possible for an expert discussion. However, it would be a good thing to say something more specific when it comes to marriage. After all, when the law is adopted and, of course, adopted in such a form, it will be necessary to give some explanation whenever someone requests an explanation of a particular article. Of course, on such an occasion, all the arguments for and against and all the explanations given will, of course, have their weight. Look. You said the congregations would be able to decide. That's what I read from the marriage, and I said it. But there were two questions. If the congregation does not decide, then Article 9 states that the Minister will decide on this, under what conditions, where and how these financial resources will be. Community, of course. Second. You said that then those deposited funds would also be placed, and then, of course, they would take part in those congregations on interest. Of course, it is necessary to make more clear here what they will achieve or what they are supposed to achieve, which is probably also difficult, which I understand you can say, or under what conditions the municipalities will receive if, in this single treasury account, they receive loans under what conditions. If this is not competitive with current business banks, then there is no reason or means impoverishment of business banks and an addition to what we say no, so to centralisation through Banka Slovenije. I would still ask if you could answer my questions a little more specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar and then Mr. Visjak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps an additional explanation concerning the single treasury account first. In the 9th article, which you have been talking about at this time, we are in fact establishing only the already established regime, which is enshrined in Article 70 of the Public Finance Act, for those entities of public law that remain outside the single treasury account. According to the current regulation of the Public Finance Act, public law entities are obliged to offer funds to a finance minister or to deposit them in government securities before they transfer free money to a business bank. We keep this regime, so we don't change anything, the regime is set up, and we only apply it to those who remain outside the single treasury account. For those in the single treasury account, this account does not apply because it makes no sense that it would apply because it is already included in the system where things are running differently. That is actually the point of Article 9. Thus, in some ways it is the adaptation of Article 70 of the current law to the fact that indirect budgetary users and the possibility that municipalities are coming are also coming into the system of a single treasury account. However, all those who are not inside will still be subject to the 70th Article of the current law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak first, then Mr Bajuk, Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'd like to speak again about this single treasure account. With this novel or amendments fall into these rules of the game - this is said to be a single treasury account - including all indirect budget users, who, as you say, are recorded and know how many there are, etc. I wonder whether this provision will apply before the adoption of the Law on Payments or before the adoption of any more detailed rules of the game in this area or how you intend to regulate this area - this is more in terms of purely implementing wages. That's the first thing. And the other thing is this. You probably have information on what this means for the liquidity of the state budget. How much of these assets, or as a result, will the loss of capital or these assets be by commercial banks? If these indirect budgetary users fall under this single treasury account, they are no longer registered with business banks. This means that they no longer have a business bank with these funds, but are subject to this single treasury account, in the case of the ownership of banks in Slovenia or the sale of these state shares, significantly affects the price of banks and their rating, as they will no longer have a certain amount of funds available to them today. This is said by the free means of indirect budgetary users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. Today we are hearing about an abstract construction that we do not really know because the National Assembly and the professional public are not familiar with this project on the common treasure. At least as I know it, this has not been the subject of any debate in this National Assembly. While some experts are aware of this at the Ministry of Finance, some also say in Banka Slovenije, but one wonders whether we can do this now, within this short period of time, whether we can give the Bianca to the Ministry of Finance to carry out such sums of money, while at the same time we have a report from the Court of Auditors for the year 2000, already mentioned by a colleague of Tanko, in which he writes, one interesting thing: The accounts of credits by individual banks in the public accounting sector did not provide adequate transparency over the debt situation, which has limited us the possibility of monitoring the correctness of accounting recording of debt and the repayment of credits in the current year. The computer programme used by the Ministry of Finance did not allow the monitoring of individual loans under contracts and banks. I would ask -- this is happening in another office, but one and the same ministry, whether it is possible to make a decision here today, that is also part of why I suggested that this be postponed, that we get more relevant reports, or whether our finance ministry has already arranged these things, which are written here, but I would not open the debate again, but what assurance we have that we will have to read again from the Court of Auditors, that we cannot review because it has not actually been transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	I have not yet received a concrete response to the very specifics set out in Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9. Look, the mayors of the municipalities are no different than managers in companies, and, of course, they have to be fucking rational and we have to behave. In fact, I do not know the case that it would not be daily, only for a certain period of time, open to servicing what falls into the payment of invoices and so on, and from a certain point on, these are tied funds on these business banks, because, of course, they enable us to do so in a simple business and better bargaining position in a particular case that I have already mentioned or to borrow any short-term loans or whatever. With this, of course, we will literally collect, you say in Article 70, of course, because I am aware of Article 70 of the Public Finance Act, that it is necessary to submit to the Ministry, first to offer, rather than to business banks. On a daily basis, when it comes to liquid assets and so on, of course, no one has done so and will probably not do so in practice. In this way, however, the funds of municipal budgets will be collected, not only that, but also all the possible benefits resulting from this, and so on, the poverty of the local community, including through this and all the actors in the local community. We all know that and some things in the local community are financed through local communities, which are not under the law on the work of the local community, which are the tasks of the Ministry. However, unfortunately, a specific case has not yet come up with a decision on the means for coherent regional development from the Ministry of Economy. They're not. But I don't know, because it's actually about the same every year. These things last and last, and in this time it is necessary to also move situations that have fallen into payment and so on. And we're actually doing all of this with business banks today. I am afraid that such changes would cause a number of other illiquidities, and perhaps even a number of smaller craftsmen's craftsmen, who are able to make several hundred thousand decisions, can also be put to their knees. That is why I think that it is too clear, really too clear in this Article 6 or in 61, of these changes on the treasury account and what this is, in fact, is that this should simply be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina, then again Mrs Kamnar wishes to explain or answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much. See, I would really like to ask, on the basis that we also have some amendments that deal with this topic, so that now two years budgets are also to be adopted at the municipal level and so on. But it is indeed a forced solution, especially if I now thank my fellow Member, Mr Jožet Tank, who has pointed out these things that such a partial matter is being resolved in this law without finding any valid arguments that have been made by the Court of Auditors. You did not answer why these warnings of the Court of Auditors were not taken into account in this law or when this will be taken into account. I wonder what your opinion is, given that we have certain amendments, which now just because someone thought it would be "fine", they also transfer certain powers or obligations, options, for some things that may not be most justified or most studied. I would ask you to answer me why you have not followed these recommendations, when you will take them into account, and how you view these proposals, which are now here, so that two-year budgets can also be adopted at the municipal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Before Mrs Kamnar gives us the answers to these questions, allow me to introduce you and to greet with respect the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Parliament of the Czech Republic. Nicely greeted on our behalf. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Mrs. Kamnar, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to Article 35 of the Budget Implementation Act. This Article states that by 1 January 2002, municipalities must open accounts with Banka Slovenije under Article 109 of the ZJF Act. This is said to be the case with Banka Slovenije, which has already been discussed today, not the subject of this law, which we are considering, but is already regulated by the applicable law on the implementation of the budget. In this law, what we bring is, in fact, only that we give the opportunity to allow municipalities to enter the single treasury account system if they consider it to be beneficial for them. That's all that's written down here. I think there is absolutely no need for concern that the municipality cannot be indebted to business banks. They must ask the Ministry of Finance, either way, because it imposes applicable legislation on them. Perhaps only with regard to the involvement of other indirect budgetary users. The indirect budgetary users shall be bodies of public law and shall have public resources. For this reason, it is so much more justified that they are included in the single treasury account system, because it all contributes to reducing public financial burdens and optimising business. The fact is that these entities now have 30 billion liquid cash in bank accounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much for that information. It is very important because if I properly understand the Secretary of State, this means that business banks will have less than 30 billion assets per day after that, if I understand this matter correctly, because this is now going to another system. I'm talking about indirect budget users, like public institutions, hospitals, schools, I don't know, universities and the like.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	Yeah, that absolutely doesn't apply. The only difference will be that the circle will not be concluded, in the sense that indirect users would first give it to banks and banks would lend it to the state. The round-up will be halted and this money will be cut if the surplus is paid to banks and banks will have to look for other, more optimal resources or placements for their assets and will not be added to the country's margins. The state will no longer pay margins in the part where it will be able to optimize this business. This is extremely rational and extremely meaningful. But everything will be done as far as the congregations are concerned, only when the congregations consider it worthwhile for them and that it is valid to go in; it is voluntary, we are simply spreading. The project was set up with ZIPRO, we are working with Banka Slovenije, and if the municipalities, who are representatives of the municipalities, believe that this makes sense, you can go into this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	I'm really sorry, but I got it right. I'm not talking about municipalities, I'm talking about indirect budgetary users, it's about those who use public funds. These now have their accounts open to business banks and have these funds on them. You're saying that these funds are 30 billion dollars a day, so it's free. This is said, then, with this amendment, with this amendment, these free funds will no longer be in these accounts of business banks, but these free funds will be included in the single treasury account system. With these funds, this payment function or banking function will be assumed by the Ministry of Finance. This means, I do not discuss whether this is rational for the country or not, I stress, but this seems to me to be an extremely important situation at the moment we own the Slovenian banks. Because the directors of these business banks will then be significantly less to their detriment, for 30 billion a day will not be able to convert the bank’s assets, but someone else will be turning them.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Everything depends on how much the net aggregate supply of these funds will be. If internal clearing leads to fewer of these funds, there will be less plasma for banks. However, if there is no internal demand among indirect budgetary users, this will also be placed on banks. Only the banks will then not be in the role of borrowing back if this need is to be, and margins will be charged. This means that, in fact, this implicit lack of rationality of the public sector will be substantially reduced and that banks will, of course, have to do more rational business and that they will no longer have to account for margins in this way without a particular sense, but will have to fight more to get the committees to be able to place these funds. They will be offered the funds, but they will not return to the public sector and the margins will be accounted for. In fact, the private sector will be able to increase plasma in this part and increase the availability of resources and the competitiveness of the offer will be increased and, of course, greater bank rationality is essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but you didn't want to answer me. I don't know why. Why have you not taken into account the comments made so far by the Court of Auditors? When will you take them into account? Is this proposal, now before us, that certain rights and new obligations be transferred to the congregations as well, or does the government support it or not? You didn't answer those three questions. I'd ask if I could, if I didn't, but I'll understand that you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	I'm sorry I didn't answer that question before. We are also aware of some shortcomings in the Public Finance Act regarding the operation of municipalities. We will analyse this thoroughly and also introduce this into the applicable law on public finances when amending the system law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	It would be very interesting for you to listen to a little bit more about the subject that you've just opened. But, unfortunately, because there is no proposal for this debate, something bad could have happened to me, because I am already one of those targets that needs to be spoken only in a very focused way. That's why I'm gonna keep talking about it. Look, you didn't tell me, and I'm asking you to say it clearly and out loud. The municipalities, if they come into the treasury account, will in no way be worse off than they are now when they're in business banks. So you said earlier that it was necessary to send local communities to Banka Slovenija, until 1.1.2002 and so on. Yeah, sure, we know that. But doing business means doing business. We will operate through the Bank of Slovenia, not turn around or have our own budget. The incomes of the congregations are two different articles. There is a real fear that because of these 30 billion with which business banks will be less operational and, of course, they will not turn them, we will also have lower ratings on the other hand. And I'm not going to repeat what I said back then. Will it mean the conditions set by the minister if he doesn't go? But if you go into this treasure account, that means at least what the business banks are going to offer you. This also creates competition. If you go into a treasury account, under certain conditions, plus and minus interest, and if you don't go, then of course the business banks will offer these pluses and minuses for the assets that are deposited, and for the funds that you will hire for such or other business. I would like to assure you that, in this treasury account or under the conditions of the Minister, they will not be worse than business banks will offer on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I am satisfied with the explanation of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and would also, at this point, somehow direct one congratulations to Minister Rope that he successfully concentrates his powers and rarely succeeds, for example, someone in his circles can convince him that he will be the one with as much resources as 30 billion a day. I think that congratulations are worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, did you wish to answer Mr. Puksic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Maybe that's it. I'm sure the conditions won't get any worse. The worst thing that can happen is that they will be neutral.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the context of the first reading, I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 9. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments, of 26.9.2001. Today you have also received the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, namely the amendments to the 6th, 7th, 9th and 10th. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the two amendments to this Article, under order number one, the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 of which the proposer is Ambassador Zalokar Orazem Kvetka, with the remark that this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to the amendment of the Committee to Article 2 and Article 3 and Article 4 of the amendment; and under order number two, the amendment of the Committee which the Government supports. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. At the general hearing, the government representatives somehow refused to answer certain questions and I would like to ask them right now at the first amendment - I hope that I have the right one in front of me - where the proposaler is Mrs Zalokar Orazem Cvetka. On the basis of the previous report referred to above by the Court of Auditors, it is clear that a revised text of the Public Finance Act should be prepared for the level of local self-government. Now, however, this proposal somehow prolongs the powers or rights and opportunities that the National Assembly will have, it is said, when proposing a two-year budget, that it is somehow automatically transferred to the municipalities. On the committee itself, I think a rather interesting debate has developed and there the government has not put its views on this proposal. So it would be right for the government to also now define itself to this amendment. Personally, however, I do not think that there is yet absolutely no need for municipal budgets to be adopted for a two-year period. So that, at this point, I would certainly, and even on the basis of the debate for the last time, personally oppose this proposal. However, I would like to ask the Government for an explanation and an answer to the questions raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, would you like to answer Mr. Kelemina's questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	With regard to the amendment tabled, I can say that the government does not oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will vote first on the amendment to the Committee's amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes to 22. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 41 to 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article, under order number 1, the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 2. The proposer is Zalokar Orazem Flower. Under order number two, the amendment of the committee is supported by the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 21. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 2 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 2a, whose proposer is the Committee. The amendment government supports the new Article 2.a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by Zalokar Orazem Cvetka. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 18. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 15. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 4 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under order number one is the amendment of the committee which the government supports; and under order number two is the amendment of the proposaler Zalokar Orazem Flowers. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 14. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. I'm sorry, I think we've accepted the other amendment. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the two amendments to Article 6. The amendment of the amendments is the amendment of the Committee, which the Government supports. Under order number 2, we will decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 6 of which the committee is the proposer. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. It's 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We also decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. There were 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 59 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 7. We have an amendment to Article 7 in the review of the amendments, of which the committee is the proposer and the government supports it. As for article 7, we also have the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, with a note that the amendments are being excluded. If the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia is adopted, on which we will vote first, the amendment of the Committee will become irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. 23 votes against 36. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment of the Committee to Article 7. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 18. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that the amendment of the Committee has been fully adopted. We decide on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 9 and on the amendment to Article 9, of which the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia is the candidate, in order to delete the text of Article 9. Anybody want to talk? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 36. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 9 as a whole. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 15. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the committee supported by the government for a new paragraph 9.a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment for the new article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and an amendment to Article 10. Since the amendment under order number two has been withdrawn by the 26.9 government, I am therefore putting the amendment under order number one and Article 10 in full into the debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present and 52 votes against 5. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 10 has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 10a, whose proposer is the Committee and the Government supports it. Anybody want to talk? I would like to explain to the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia that their amendment to Article 10a is irrelevant and can only be tabled in the third reading to amend the new Article 10a, as long as it is accepted and the Committee of which the proposer is proposed, is deleted. We are therefore moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 10a. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 15. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it that the amendment for the new Article 10a has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes against 11. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47, against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone might want to discuss the bill in its entirety. Since no, I am asking on the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative of the Secretariat if the amendments adopted may undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 15. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! Thank you very much for your cooperation, and thank you very much to both representatives of the secretariat. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the provision of funds for the elimination of the consequences of drought, cold and neurea in the summer of 2001, rapid procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Aloise Sok for consideration. Does the bill's proposer want a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	Honourable President, Honourable Fellow Members and Members. We have before us a law to correct or eliminate the effects of drought this year, colds, and hailstorms. Under the coalition agreement, it has been stipulated that the ruling coalition will not support any law that the opposition would table in the parliamentary procedure, in fact, I find that I have tried something impossible. So, in advance, it is somehow clear to me that the parliamentary majority of the representatives of the great coalition in this National Assembly will reject this law, probably in a relationship like that of the Infrastructure Committee, where 9 votes and 6 votes for this law have been assessed as inadequate and the conclusion states that the government proposal is better. So let me explain some of the reasons why I actually decided to file this law. The first reason is that the National Assembly, in a slightly different composition and with a different government than we have this year, dealt with a similar bill on August 30th and also adopted it on August 30th. However, I have tabled my proposal on September 7th, and today we are October 1st, and we still do not have a similar law. What's wrong with that? However, there are no elections ahead of us and the ratio of power in the National Assembly has changed. Before the Radgon fair there was much talk about drought, at the Radgon fair there was talk from the President of the country, Mr Milan Kučan, to the President of our Parliament, Mr Pahor. Everyone gave farmers compliments and somehow promised them help, of course, some inconsequential ones, referred to parliament, and in fact nothing happened in the government ranks. And when the government at its 1st meeting in September did not adopt a proposal for a law in accordance with the decisions adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, which held its extraordinary meeting at the Radgon Fair, I decided, with my proposal, to encourage the government at least to start thinking that we have in Slovenia, besides banks that are very interested, and also farmers, including those affected by the catastrophic drought. The second reason that convinced me that something had to be done was that, at the time that I proposed this bill, farmers did not receive even all the funds paid for aid after the drought in 2000, and I do not think that at this point the state has yet settled the amount of 1.4 billion. However, they received this at the time, and I can claim this, various conclusions, once on such assistance, the second time Minister Kopač changed the criteria, about different aid, and at the moment they do not know what actually belongs to them for 2000 even less for 2001. The basic intention of this law, which is before you and is to be addressed today, is to provide direct assistance to the affected, amounting to 11 billion and 150 million Slovenian tolars. Of this, 9.5 billion is to be spent for drought, 1.5 billion for drought and 150 million for storms. The damage is expected to be paid up to 50%. I would like to point out that up to 50% of the legislation is non-selective, non-selective, both to the level of resources and to the area on which the affected are farmers or farmers. This lack of selectivity is in line with our basic definition - this is a definition in the national programme, the agricultural national programme, where it says that Slovenian, the orientation of Slovenian agriculture is eco-social and multifunctional. Eco-social, as we understand it in our party, means that if there is a demand for support, then this aid must be shared in a non-selective manner or to make such and other payments, I would say, this social note in Slovenian agriculture, especially now that Slovenian agriculture is preparing to enter the European Union. In addition, we propose in the bill that, as a percentage of the estimated damage to the affected persons, taxes as well as contributions to health, pension and disability insurance should be deducted, and that the rent should be reduced by that percentage for those renting land from the agricultural land fund. It makes sense to us, therefore, because if someone has suffered damage, if someone does not have income, then it is difficult to imagine that he could also settle all obligations to the State and the State has the opportunity to exempt him from the payment of certain State duties. In this proposal or in the proposal I have proposed, we have also not summarized the guidelines of the European Union, namely that damage is recognised only when the estimated damage is more than 30%. Simply because Slovenia is not yet a member of the European Union, this is one thing; the other is that we are only preparing ourselves in Slovenia to join the European Union, and in this consultation every tolar, every asset is important to improve the situation of our agriculture. We have also proposed that these procedures should be carried out in accordance with the established methodology, saying, through municipal valuation committees, through municipalities. It is a principle of subsidiarity, which is stressed both by the European Union and by us many times, but of course in practice we do many different things. So these are the basic intentions of this marriage. The following is what I would like to stress and what Minister Rob specifically asked on the Committee on Agriculture, which, as an interested working body, this proposal of the law, without me, dealt with because I was absent from how we came to an assessment of the damage. I must point out that the European Union guidelines say that the injury is the easiest and most consistent way to assess it by assessing the damage to each property individually. This is because the government proposal foresees some other assessment. The assessment on each site was prepared by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which, through its accommodating service, has an adequate and trained network of accelerants who are also qualified and can assess this damage. According to the report of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which was issued on 22.8.2001, which included an assessment of the damage to some place up to and including 17 August, this damage was estimated at EUR 14 billion 400 million. However, since the damage then continued, from 17 August to the end of August, because the first rainfall occurred only in early September, and because, according to meteorological data, the amount of precipitation in 2001 in the affected areas was even lower than in 2000, as well as the fact that the average temperature was 2 to 3 degrees higher than in 2000, we have somehow estimated that this damage will be the same in 2001 or even slightly higher than in 2000. The corrected or verified damage in 2000 was, as you know, close to 19 billion tolars. At the moment, the State Commission and the municipal commissions are still collecting relevant data. I am sure that in fact the final assessment of the damage will be at least the same as it was last year or I believe that it will even be slightly higher. This is about our assessment of drought damage in 2001. As for the damage after the cold, the agri-economic chamber - according to their reports - estimated that the damage was around 5 billion 400 million, while now that the damage was reported or most of the damage was reported, it showed that the damage after the cold was slightly more than 3 billion, and in this law, as I said in the first place, we are proposing 1.5 billion to compensate for the damage after the cough. As far as neurons are concerned, the damage is estimated to be higher than we suggested. However, given that we are proposing to pay up to 50% of the estimated damage in the drought, there may also be spillage within the law, it is called redistribution, and part of the assessment or means for drought may be made to flow. We have taken 150 million because more or less of the damage caused by the storms of the stock in our country is a constant, and all previous years damage has also been estimated somewhere in this amount. As I said in the introduction, the Infrastructural Committee has concluded that this proposal for a law is poor or that the proposal for a government law is better than I propose. Of course, I wonder which level he's better at. It is certainly not better for the affected, as the government proposal foresees that this year's disastrous conditions in agriculture will be spent on only 5 and a half billion, and only one in this year and the rest in 2002. So, the obligations are somehow transferred to next year. What is proposed by the government proposal is that the law would stipulate that the damage is paid directly, that farmers are awarded or affected by the surrender of their applications themselves and in those municipalities where they have their lands. As I have been able to ascertain from the procedures for the submission of applications, this government proposal already means a huge amount of unnecessary administration, a lot of paper, which, of course, our affected farmers, who have not yet received funds for last year, is putting into one situation where they do not actually believe that they will receive anything from this title and that many of them, I think, will not surrender their applications. The government proposal foresees that only the more than 30% damage would be paid. Therefore, here they refer to the guidelines of the European Union, although once again I stress that Slovenia is not a member of the European Union at this time and I do not know why reference is then made to these definitions. It is also necessary to say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	Mr. Sok, I'm sorry. I don't think we have a government bill before us, and it's not on the agenda, we don't deal with it. So I ask you very much to focus in the proposal on your proposal for a law in content, as you proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In doing so, I would like to explain the decision of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, which has determined in its decision that the government proposal is better. Therefore, I would also like to touch on this question whether the government proposal is really better. All reports concerning this law have also been published in the media under this heading. So if you'll allow me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	Mr Sok, in the general debate, with all due respect, you will be able to open all the questions, but here you represent and have the right to present your law as a candidate, which you have proposed in the procedure. By no means do I have the right to deny you these rights in dialogue with the representatives of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Then I'll call again. Mainly, I have put forward this proposal for a law. I am convinced that the National Assembly, because this is one of the proposals to be adopted in the quick procedure, should consider this bill and possibly also consider the amendments tabled by the government on a proposal for a law that we have tabled. I will also say that the government has actually been late and late with its proposal. For if the government had tabled its proposal in time and if the Government's proposal were really better than what we proposed, then we could also possibly agree and discuss the possible replacement of these two proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice-President of the Committee, Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. At its 15th session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration and adopted by the rapid procedure, Member Aloise Sok. In addition to the basic material, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs and the opinion and amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and received the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting. The bill's proposer, Mr Aloise Sok, initially gave reasons for the introduction of the law and briefly presented the content of the law, which is similar to the content of the 2000 law. The secretariat also made comments on this law, of which it is most important that the period of damage should be time-bound, as it depends on both the assessment of the damage and the level of the necessary resources for that purpose. On the part of the Government, the government representative presented the guidelines supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the consideration of its proposal for a law or later in the preparation of amendments to the law of Ambassador Alojz Sok. One of the main guidelines is that State aid funds are allocated directly to the victims of agricultural holdings. The second focus was on the European Union guidelines, which assume that natural disasters are at a time when the damage exceeds 30 % of the normal crop. Later, in the course of the discussion, a member of the Committee pointed out that the Committee should first decide on the further consideration of this law, since in the consideration of the proposed law, the Government had tabled amendments or amendments to the proposed law, by which the text of the law was fully amended. In addition, very little time has been left for the examination and consideration of these amendments, since amendments were tabled on 26.9. and, of course, it would be very difficult to formulate any complementary and follow-up proposals to these amendments. A procedural proposal has therefore been tabled, namely that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration and that it is proposed to the national assembly not to adopt it. The Committee voted on this procedural proposal and adopted it by a majority of votes. Thus, the Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Council proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia not to adopt a proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and cloudy storms in 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that the country is obliged to help, on the basis of the Constitution and other laws in force, when a fundamental disaster occurs in the country. This year too, unfortunately, we were affected by drought as well as forgetting and stormy hailstorms. Whenever such an elementary accident occurs, it is very important that the state reacts quickly and that it reacts fairly. It is not easy to combine both elements: in as fair a way as possible to help people. When this year's drought showed a lot of teeth, we also agreed in the last days of August that we would allow the government to prepare a law to help the affected by the September 25th working body of the National Assembly - the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food - after a frank discussion with each other. We did not expect any of our fellow Members to jump in and close the procedure. Of course, the rules of procedure allow for this, and the large and sent-in colleague Sok has decided and introduced his own law. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposed law proposed by colleague Sok. Why would we support him? Because, in accordance with the procedure and the rules of procedure in force, they will then be able to support the proposed amendments proposed by the Government under the rapid procedure. When the government was informed at a college meeting in mid-September that this was the only business path, it was also decided that such a government law, which had been introduced by law since colleague Sok, would be transformed into an amendment. We therefore assess and propose to our fellow Members that they follow us; we have the opportunity to support the swift procedure or to support the continuation of the law. If such a proposal is adopted - this is said to reject the proposal of the working body - then the working body will meet again and define the amendments tabled. We will therefore support the proposed law in the parliamentary group and then actively participate in the adoption of government amendments. In our view, it would be wise to add a few more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u86	Respectable present. In the Slovenian National Party or the Slovenian National Party Group, we have already said at the time of the adoption of the agenda that this is one of those rare laws that deserve this status of adoption, as this law deserves, and in particular because of the fact that all speakers have mentioned before me. In essence, I would like to say that the proposal for a law as it is today and now before us is acceptable to the Slovenian National Party. In our view, it is also acceptable for all those who have suffered this damage - or what this type of disaster might be like - also experienced; for the law is written to them, and in principle this national assembly should see that it meets the needs of those to whom the law is tanning. The question is whether individual amendments by the government will arise under the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and how this bill proposed by Mr Sok in the procedure will be amended in the form that those who comply with the so-called criteria of the European Union are entitled to reimbursement, that is 30 per cent of the damage. In such a case, therefore, if such a doctrine is involved in this law, the question is whether it will be supported by us, because it seems unfair to us. In its existing form, of course, Mr Sok's law, and by procedure and content, it encountered approval in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Geza Juban and then by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will support the proposal of the Infrastructure Committee, which says that the law is not a suitable basis. But the reasons are as follows. Right from the beginning, we need to find out what we have been dealing with. Such a matter is in any case a little overheated and dangerous and, of course, it is important how we deal with such problems that affect citizens. The amount - of course we have before us a proposal from our fellow Member, Sok, and the government amendments that are in the process. The amount that happens at the end is, in any event, a compromise in this national assembly, which will be given to all affected by drought, flooding and frost. And at this point it is too early to talk about the amount proposed by colleague Sok, or in the government amendments that change this amount. It is true that we recognize that a fellow Member's proposal also encourages the government to prepare its own law, but at the same time we must bear in mind that the amendments are summarised in this law and complement the law of a fellow Member by practically reaching out to one other proposal, as would be necessary. However, the following reasons, I think, are very important because they would be dealt with; for the first time, with amendments to the law of a fellow Member and after the review of the amendments of the Government, including some adjustments to those amendments, two documents would be corrected. All those who follow the instructions for the census, these first data are on a quick and thorough inventory run, and also from the responses of those who describe, this is an advisory service, a request has been sent to us to extend the inventory from that original deadline which was reportedly the end of September and that no damage can be reported at that time. And this list is supposed to run until October 20th. Which means that at this time we can consider a single document, which is very precise and wide-ranging, for the first time: a description of the damage, the work of the commissions, then the allocation of funds and, of course, the control over them. And of course, if we are as responsible as it seems that we are here, then at the end of October or at the next meeting, we can quickly adopt a pure government proposal for a law that we will be offering in the two documents, including the amount that must be a compromise in this national assembly, and practically nothing will be lost in time, and those who are affected will be able to receive assistance at the same time. At the same time, we need to find out if we are realistic, if the damage is currently being paid out after last year's drought of a billion, 800, which requires time and procedure in the administration that is doing so. Below is the same job to pay the remaining amount out of last year's law, which lovingly also moves all matters towards the end of October, and at that time to prepare or after one, second or third proposal for recovery from this law, we are in the month of November, which is exactly the same: either we are dealing with the first two documents or a third document, which is a government proposal. So, these are the reasons, and if these reasons are taken into account, no one can tell us that we are not responsible for harming those affected in time. For this reason, we will support the proposal submitted by the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. It appears that Slovenia has become a country that likes to be visited by natural disasters with severe, sometimes catastrophic consequences. Over the last few years, we have been dealing with basic problems every year. There is also no exception this year, no exception, as the problems have been dragging ever since early spring, and Slovenia has been affected by all the known captures, except perhaps by the flood; and we can expect them by the end of this year. All natural disasters affect almost exclusively the countryside. This is the part of our country that cares about the beautiful, orderly appearance of the landscape and healthy agricultural production. Much of this rural area has significantly worse development opportunities and prospects than urban areas and is therefore trying to assist it with the law on coherent regional development and also with the support of agricultural environmental policy. It is clear that these measures are not sufficient to compensate or, if I say otherwise, to buy back developmental backlogs in terms of delays in the implementation of agricultural reforms and unregulated market conditions. In particular, problems and difficulties are highlighted in the event of natural disasters, as the nature of the work and the poor prospects for the creation of material and financial resources make the agricultural system almost completely undermined. It is therefore surprising that the Government, although well-known for its rural and agricultural problems, has not reacted so long and has drawn up a state aid law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The government reacted late, even too late, although it has political levers, expertise, institutions - in short, everything. Only when another initiator has appeared because of the government's waiting has operational policy deteriorated and will it almost certainly use its political power. That the government could react faster, it proved before the days when it was extremely fast, perhaps within a few hours, it prepared, adopted and submitted a guarantee law for insurance coverage of air carriers. Citizens are expected to see the government react in a timely manner to the problems - not only the agricultural economy, but also other victims, who are affected by sudden accidents or changes, although most of the consequences of natural disasters are no longer credible, and in the parliamentary group we support the proposal for a law tabled by the Member of Parliament, Mr Sok, because the proposed measures are sufficiently comprehensive, predictable, timely, sufficient and, more importantly, covering all the victims. The bill does not exclude anyone. The government proposal that we have received on the committee at the table is less convincing, much more selective, unadapted to the country's situation, which is why it is also highly protective, is undefined because it has no value and comparisons and the solution offered is unverifiable and is insufficiently justified. We must be aware that aid can only be effective if it is fast enough and sufficient. Therefore, we do not agree with the cosmetics remittances of just a few percent. In our Group of Members, we believe that immediate assistance must be significantly higher. And this also makes the proposal of Mr Sok's fellow Member more appropriate and appropriate. We also expect that the government and the ministry will have a more respectful attitude towards those affected and that the rest of them will also be directed at heights and deadlines than the law will impose on them. We estimate that it is reasonable for the proposed law to be adopted and for the government to prepare a new law to provide comprehensively for measures, tasks and actions for future fundamental disasters. We believe that it is much easier, and above all much less burdensome, to anticipate future actions than to calculate or coordinate in cases where we are trying to correct the awkward situation too late. Other disasters, such as floods, earthquakes, and the like, would also be included in the new law. For new solutions to the law, it would also be necessary to verify different methodologies for calculating compensations, since before deciding, we would like to know whether it provides a solution of approximately the same or substantially different compensation. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that this element is being accounted for and treated in a similar way as it has been so far. That is why we also support our colleague Sok's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Given that he will answer the questions of Dr. Janez Drnovšek, Prime Minister, at 5 p.m. and that we have been working continuously for three hours and would also not want the next debater, this is Mr Alojz Sok, who will present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, to interrupt at half of its implementation, I interrupt this item on the agenda. At 5: 00 p.m. again, I invite you to continue our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u92	We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 55 Members and Members present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. In accordance with the agreement and the preliminary notice, we are now moving to interrupted 1. I would like all good to Prime Minister Drnovšk at this point of the day - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF THE POSLANK AND THE POSLANCE, at that part of the point concerning the questions raised by the opposition to the Prime Minister Janez Drnovšk, which I welcome in the National Assembly and on behalf of all of them. The first question will be raised by Dr Andrej Bajuk on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Dr. Andrei Bajuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The Slovenian public is already well aware through the media of the fact that the management of LBS New York and the management of Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. and indirectly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as assessed by the Banking Supervisory Services in the United States, has not exercised its management privileges with the care of a good host. Members of the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party recalled the necessity of a comprehensive and more responsible professional supervision of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank and its subsidiaries abroad as early as July at the meeting of the National Assembly at the hearing of the report on the work of the Bank of Slovenia for 2000. We had already asked the Bank of Slovenia a number of questions and, indirectly, had already received an answer from its vice-governor that only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could familiarize us with the supervisory reports available to the Bank of Slovenia. The Governor of Banka Slovenije also rejected our written request for supervisory reports sent on 3 September this year and reminded us, and here I quote, "that all data and findings that Banka Slovenije cannot provide are within the competence of the owner and management authorities of banks". So today, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you whether you will send reports to the National Assembly, for which we also addressed a request a week ago to the government of three members of the opposition. I also ask you what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did when it became aware of the demands of the US supervisory authorities, that is, the FDIC, the "Order to case and desist" in which they wrote, inter alia, that New York’s LBS must cease its illegal and dangerous banking business, in particular the operation of a bank whose management with its policy and operation is detrimental to the bank and threatens the security of its deposits, its involvement in violations of federal law and other rules, its risk of lending and its negligence in recovery, its excessive share of poor investment and so on and so on. I also ask you what the government did when it became aware of the request of the FDIC that LBS New York should provide documentation and report on the ten-year approval of loans to companies of Slovenian origin, such as Globe Trade, Adria Investment, Adria Management, Iskra USA, Iskra Commerce MT, Dora FUC, Copo International, SZ Acroni, Cinkem USA, Slovenian Iron, Zincarna Celje, Linden Importing, and also report on the legal or property interests of the banking party Bojan Bevca to those legal persons, at Novi Ljubljanski bankid.d. and other legal persons involved in the business of the Ljubljana LBS New York, its business or profit. I therefore ask you whether the government is already aware of the level and conditions of approved and non-refundable loans from designated companies and the role of Bojan Bevac in these and in NLB d.d. themselves. as well as others with LBS-related persons. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u95	Your Honor. The government has not yet taken note of the report on the situation in the LBS, namely the New York Bank, which is owned by the New Ljubljana Bank. After what I am aware of - and you were one of the first or the first to introduce me to this U.S. regulator - about what I know about this issue - it is that the US regulator has recently sharpened his relationship with this bank and has probably also sharpened his attitude towards some of the risks posed by the bank, which has nevertheless come out of the former Yugoslav space, banking space and, although it has probably gone through a very difficult period in this decade, but has managed to maintain itself as a bank and in very demanding competitive and probably regulatory conditions. However, in this framework assessment, which I can have as, perhaps as a former bank acquaintance, not so many now, I am waiting to receive a report from the government on the operation of this bank. I have already agreed on such a report, both with the Minister of Finance and with the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. And when the government receives such a report, and when we are able to judge the whole event more relevantly, I do not see any reservations that they would not also submit this report to the relevant committee in the National Assembly, of course, with the treatment of this report, which will be necessary depending on the nature of the data. Although I note that the whole issue has received a considerable response in the public, that this has been given much emphasis, much more than the problem itself, or the quantity, deserves. What we do know is that, although the bank has been regularly reviewed throughout all these years, throughout all these periods, the supervisory board has also carried out the Bank of Slovenia, that they have performed the control function of the audit house, but the government has never been particularly warned as it is any major problem or even a problem in the functioning of this bank. Since the privatisation process of the Ljubljana Bank has been initiated, such publicity is, of course, poor for the privatisation process itself. And that's why, of course, it's the owner's interest to clear things up, to put them in the right dimension. I am convinced that this dimension is significantly more formal than it appears to have been in various records and that it does not in any way jeopardise the normal process of privatisation of the Ljubljana Bank or its value. So, the government will, I hope to receive such a report as soon as possible. She'll probably give her own assessment, and then, of course, we can be more determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Would you like a further question, Dr. Bajuk? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, it is not customary for the owner not to be informed of such problems, and I note this from the words of Mr President. However, I would like to add another question, which is also related to the public intention to privatise the New Ljubljana Bank. I would like to know, in particular because we are all Members and also the general public of the daily newspaper and the responses of members of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank to the question raised by the press regarding the operation of the LHB International Handelsbank in Frankfurt, we can rightly conclude that this subsidiary may not also maintain or increase the state capital it operates with. I would also like to ask you if the government has taken note of this issue of the operation of this daughter bank in NLB and what it has decided to do to improve this business. As regards whether the book value of NLB’s balance sheet and capital has been published, it also contains the value of investments in subsidiaries abroad and how possible it was not before the sale of NLB d.d. A careful examination has been carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u99	Yes, very briefly. The government has no information on any problems in the operations of the LHB Bank in Frankfurt. I suppose we will therefore get a report together on this issue, and I am also aware of you, including the public assurance of the New Ljubljana Bank administration that the operation of the bank in Frankfurt is normal and without problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The next question will be asked by your colleague, Sasha Peca. Comrade Peca, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u101	Respectable present. A while ago, your foreign minister's statement on the division of the world into a civilized world and a barbaric world, in the light of the volatile adaptation to military organisations, was understandable in the interest and aspirations of the Slovenian government; but what is in terms of being Slovenian in Slovenia is not understandable. In this regard, two sub-questions, the first issue, which you may not at first think will be an important answer, I hope you will find, is the following. Following terrorist attacks on the United States of America, Slovenia or your services emptied parking spaces around the US Embassy, protected and thus showed that this is one of the possible points of terrorist aggression against the Republic of Slovenia. We've protected a foreign embassy, a nearby building is a kindergarten, a nursery in Francet Prešern, where you left the parking lot in normal condition. At least what a person would expect from the Slovenian government, if he has already approached and what I have also said - to empty the parking spaces around the embassy to do so for the youngest Slovenian citizens, they are visitors to these educational and protective institutions. I hope you will take the initiative in good faith, and if not in good faith, you will do so as soon as possible. Part Two: I would like to ask you and get on your side only a positive or negative answer. Whether the Slovenian government has completed its letter on the question of if Slovenian soldiers will participate, let's say this campaign against - and I will use Mr Rupl's jargon - "Barbaric world". And there's a third matter within the time limit. On 20 July 2001, this year, as Prime Minister, we have addressed you as an initiative, a question or a wish for your greater activity in the field of amending the penal code. We have made proposals in the form of a bill on sexual violence, sexual violence against minors, rapes and sick persons. We did not receive your reply to our letter, which was also made public. In this regard, would I ask you whether we did not get it because we put it in the framework of the Slovenian National Party? That could still be understandable. Did we not get it because you do not see the problem of the Republic of Slovenia in this topic? In doing so, I would like to point out that statistics - including the Office of the Republic of Slovenia - indicate the increased growth of these indicators, which indicate such crimes. Please join the Slovenian National Party in the field of tightening up, maximum, for these offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much, colleague Sasha Pec. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u103	Your Honor! There were a few questions. I'll try to answer them as much as I can, of course. As regards Slovenia's attitude towards recent events, until the events of 11 September, to terrorist attacks in the United States, the government has made its position very clear: we oppose any kind of terrorism. Terrorism is not and can never be a way to solve any problems in this world. Innocent people suffer from this. It is very clear that this terrorist attack has involved huge numbers of innocent victims, innocent people, including children. Such acts of terrorism could happen anywhere, even with us. It's understandable that we can't be indifferent to this and isolate ourselves from it, if you like, it happened somewhere else, it can't happen with us. It is clear that we are coming into a period of new dangers, new risks in the world, and that our mentality, our relationship, including our activities, will also need to be adjusted. The question of world security suddenly looks completely different than it did before 9/11. Before, of course, we all in the world, after all, also the Americans, counted with the possibility of such terrorist acts and with it as some risky factor. However, until this has actually happened, everyone's balance is slightly different. Now this has happened, and there is a possibility that it will happen in the future, that terrorist attacks will also be repeated, that even worse terrorist attacks may occur using even worse means, including biological, chemical or nuclear weapons. Of course, there can be no cold-blooded government, and it is very understandable that the world has responded and that most countries have joined up with this response and very clear positions that they are against such actions and that they will face terrorist threats with coordinated international activity, with the possibility of terrorist attacks and that they will cooperate. This is also the position of Slovenia. And in doing so, of course, we do not in any way share the world in a civilized and uncivilized or barbaric or whatever; it is understandable that it does not. We divide it into that part of the world, to those countries, to those who are ready to solve their problems and problems in a peaceful way, with peaceful activities, with agreements, with political activity, and to those parts that are willing to solve the problems of violence, with weapons, with even non-discriminatory terrorist attacks, with very large numbers of innocent victims; therefore, with a view to giving more emphasis, more importance to their actions, their movements. So this division was established today in the world. Personally, I am very much involved in stressing that this is not about fighting - no, not about Islam, not about any country or part of the world that would qualify otherwise, if it were different from us. That's not true! A number of countries, Islamic countries, moderate countries have joined this action, this international response. And I think it's only right that Slovenia is on this line. At the same time, in all our statements, we have pointed out that the fight against terrorism is a short-term response, or what is of course necessary, both for our safety and for the detection and punishment of the perpetrators. However, the second part of the problem is of longer-term importance and will need to be addressed in the longer term. Clearly, there are so many cumulative tensions, differences in the level of life, in the quality of life, so much poverty, so many differences that do not diminish, but even increase with years or development, after all, globalisation, that these issues will probably have to be given much more attention than the world has devoted to so far. Otherwise, it is likely that such dangers, including terrorist attacks or other threats to peace, or to a normal and stable life in the world will always be generated. And no one can isolate themselves from this, nor can Slovenia. We can't say: we're some isolated island, nothing can happen to us, we're something, something outside of it. We are all on this earth and share this common destiny. That is why our government is studying these developments intensively and we are also continuing our activities, our assessments. We are trying to find out what should be done in Slovenia in order to protect ourselves more, to prepare ourselves for possible risks, but of course in that first reaction we spoke like most countries in the world; we have protected the most exposed points, including the US Embassy you mentioned. What about the parking lot at that, I couldn't answer you. This, such an answer can give - and of course we can request it - the body responsible for this, and certainly the first interest of the Slovenian government is the security of the Slovenians. That's understandable. Knowing, of course, that we cannot isolate ourselves from the rest of the world and that we must look at security as part of international action, international solidarity and international cooperation. As regards your question or your proposals regarding the amendment of the legislation you have mentioned regarding various criminal offences, I have taken this letter or initiative from the Ministry of Justice. And in view of your repeated question today, I will also repeat the question myself, or try to determine how far their preparations or assessments are to respond to this initiative, or how they would involve it in their activities or in possible legislative changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Comrade Peca, you have a further question, please, you have the floor for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you. It is nice for the Slovenian government to take care of world security, but ask her if she is invited to do so. You've been telling us a lot about terrorism, what's right and what's wrong. Of course, we all condemn terrorism. Mr. Drnovšek, you say: parking lots - there is no talk of parking! The point is to leave two neighbouring institutions: one with American citizens, the other with Slovenian children, unprotected. Despite the fact that both buildings are due to the location on the list of the most endangered facilities in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think that's right. We agree with you that terrorism is bad. Of course, because I think all 90 here agree on this; but I do not agree with you, but do not protect - if you already feel the need to protect - Slovenian food. Next. Just please answer me: Slovenian soldiers will go to the above-mentioned cross-lights or not. Yes or no. The Slovenian government has concluded this list of history or not. And you say chapter two, sexual violence. You say you gave the Ministry of Justice a document or initiative by the Slovenian National Party. Let me warn you, it's 90 days away. 90 days from this. The Ministry of Justice is a poor judiciary if within 90 days it was unable to prepare answers. It's one of the more exciting things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to further clarify your views?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u107	Very short. Mr Pece, I think you've got a fairly correct answer to your question, so I don't think it's entirely right now to ask some populist questions about the protection of the US Embassy and maybe even the parking lot at this. This is the professional question of the institutions dealing with security that are considering it, it is not a matter of the government or the Prime Minister, it is not up to the Prime Minister and it does not fully fall within the scope of these issues. Of course, this is decided by the relevant institutions on the basis of a security assessment. While it is true that you have pointed to this, you could have already done so sooner and at the right address, of course. I will further direct this initiative to the Ministry or to the institutions responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The next and final question will be raised by colleague Janez Janš. You have the floor, Comrade Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In the middle of this summer, an intensive anti-NATO campaign was launched in some central Slovenian media. This campaign is still going on. One of the concrete consequences of this campaign is the findings of a government public opinion survey last month paid by the government's information centre. Following this finding, support for Slovenia's membership in NATO fell by a good 7% in Slovenian public and is long below 50 percent. In all this time, since this campaign has lasted, it has not been possible to see any intense confrontation between the arguments or the government and its ministers, with one exception, have not exactly participated in these discussions, nor have they offered arguments that make NATO membership the priority of the current government. Then, on September 11th, this terrorist attack took place in the United States. This event has accelerated many processes on a global scale, including the expansion of NATO. There will be no change in the strategy on what this enlargement will be, as it has been made clear several times in recent days. What will be and who will be involved in this enlargement, however, is largely decided now that this anti-terrorist coalition is being built, in which some Muslim countries are also participating alongside the NATO and European countries. This coalition is still expanding. Among the nine candidates for NATO membership, Slovenia responded with its offer - cooperation in this coalition - and this was noticeable far across Slovenian borders, as has been observed far across Slovenian borders also the passiveness of the government in this anti-NATO campaign, which started in Slovenian media. Some of the candidates for membership, such as the Baltic States, which are also on a priority list somewhere, offered even cooperation within the meaning of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty as if they were already members. Many other candidates have offered almost that much. Slovenia, I mean, far from it! In view of the above, I ask the Government, Prime Minister: is Slovenia's membership in NATO still a strategic foreign policy priority for Slovenia and also for governments? 2. What will be done to bring the debate on membership or non-membership in NATO to some reasoned debate, so that not only arguments against them will be cited? 3. Do you think that Slovenia has done everything that is necessary and useful in these times, within the meaning of this objective, to engage in NATO when it comes to participating in this anti-terrorist coalition?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you. Your Honor! The Slovenian government's views on NATO membership are unchanged. So, together with Parliament, with most parliamentary parties, we have already taken a clear position in the previous term that we are candidates for membership in relation to NATO. The last debate on Slovenia or the intensity of this debate, which took place during the summer time of vacation, was a bit unusual and surprising, according to my assessment of the premature. It is too early because, after all, we have experience from the previous cycle of NATO's extension, from the Madrid Circle, when it was shown that, in fact, an early domestic discussion, a high rise in expectations, of course, could then run into a different decision. The decision of NATO, which otherwise has nothing to do with our willingness, with our determination, with our desire, but comes from some completely third reasons on which Slovenia has no influence. Such a situation can be repeated even now or in 2002 when it is anticipated that the end of the year would be followed by a further extension. Therefore, if I say exactly as I have thought, it would, of course, make sense to continue our activities, our preparatory activities in all areas, of course mainly in the Slovenian military, and also in our communications with NATO members, including with the leadership of NATO. And then in the final phase, of course, when the matter became clearer, also to have an intensive domestic debate, an intensive domestic presentation of arguments, reasons for, when in fact, it would be time for this decision, both in relation to NATO and - for such a debate - in Slovenia. So it is not in any way that the Slovenian government would change its attitude to membership in relation to NATO, but it is an assessment of this, so when and how to get involved in this debate and when to actually put it into the highest gear at home, if I say so, to step up this discussion, in line with how things are going to develop on the other hand, in the context of NATO itself. What bothers me a little bit, both with the European Union and with NATO, is that candidates are often treated as a class of schoolchildren. And in a way, we don't hear it at the highest political levels, but always at the lower levels, in a way, one that the candidate will say a little faster and make it faster, who will be a better schoolboy and so on; sometimes quite humiliating for the sovereign states of the candidate. Such treatment, that is to say, a class of schoolchildren who have to behave for years and years decently and every time they raise their hand, is what bothers me in all these years. Because after all, what does it matter? It counts the seriousness of the state, the maturity of the state, the development of democracy, the economy, all these factors. Both in NATO and in the European Union, Slovenia is highly valued, it is the highest among all candidates, and everyone recognises that. Then we hear many times, if, yes, now you have not responded among the first, you have not immediately offered your airspace, as well as perhaps the Baltic States, although it is completely unclear whether this will be necessary. My response is clear, and I also wrote in a letter to President Bush of the United States: Slovenia, of course, is against terrorist actions and is joining the countries that are fighting it; what concrete means, what concrete cooperation is needed, and we must find this together. And when the need is expressed, of course, we will respond to it in accordance with our procedures, which can also be very rapid if necessary. However, because of the competition with other candidates, with the Baltic countries, with Romania and Bulgaria - it is interesting that those who are the farthest from the real possibility of being a NATO member are the fastest to offer, but at the very least they are offering NATO members, who are more cautious in their positions and, of course, all of them have given in principle support, but for specific activities they will all - and this allows them to do so - especially when it is clear what they should do and how to respond. So it's just that we're acting, at least I think, like a serious country, and we've expressed our willingness, with our options, to participate in this international action; but in that meaningful way and where we need to. If we say that and if we have to, we can do that again. If we say that, I think that should be enough. Otherwise, Slovenia is, and I agree with this, that sometimes we may not be aware of the need, however, to contribute to world peace, stability, security; that we cannot only expect others to protect us. In short, we have something to contribute. If I refer to the previous question of Mr Pečet, who asked if we will send any soldiers to the crisis hotspots, there is no need, no purpose is now to send soldiers to any new crisis hotspots. Nobody asked us that either. However, in our interest and gradually increasing our engagement in South-Eastern Europe: in Bosnia and Herzegovina, even in Kosovo, in international forces. And this contribution of ours is appreciated. It is appreciated because we also have more insight, more experience in this area, after all, the direct interest that this region is as stable as possible. And if I say so, in this niche I also see Slovenia's main asset or the main importance for NATO, its importance for stability in Southeast Europe. So far, we have profiled as the most stable country, like that country that is actually on the border between, of course, the European Union, NATO and then between the more unstable Balkans or Southeast Europe. We have cooperated in various ways and are still working with the US, with the European Union, with NATO, within the UN to solve the problem in this area. And we'll continue with that. In fact, this is our most valuable contribution that we can make. I fully agree with you, of course, that we must, therefore, clearly our contribution to international security and we give it most in this space. But elsewhere, of course, where we assess, together with our international partners, that it is useful. If I conclude, the Slovenian government will continue its activities, including some critical comments recently, including your question, what you have said in it, we will re-examine and assess where and how our activities need to be stepped up, so that our key objectives, however - which ultimately mean greater security and stability of our country - and I repeat: I think that, within the framework of collective security, we can make it easier to ensure than ourselves that we do not compromise this goal and that we bring it to the end. I hope that the NATO membership is, too, already - I hope to expect to invite her to the Prague Summit next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. My friend Janez Janša wants a supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you for that part of the answer. Well, I wanted to point out first of all that things changed after 9/11. If until then the enlargement of NATO membership or the new members were considered to have to meet many technical criteria, they have now turned things around and are more or less willing, political criteria, etc. It's perfectly clear, things are different now. We do participate or share responsibility for global peace in our region, but it took several years before we decided to do so and very late, or started to participate in these concrete forms in these international institutions, including within the framework of NATO or the UN in the region. It took a few years, and that probably cost us our membership in NATO in the first round. The Czech Republic then joined the coalition against cancer and was neither a member of NATO nor a serious candidate, and cooperated with some soldiers. Although we later sent Mr Jelinčič to Iraq, we regret that this is not a good thing for us. But when it comes to membership, they count concrete actions. Now, in the coming days, attention is also focused on what candidates will do. Now, with that kind of talk, when we heard it a little while ago, we're a sovereign state, etc. Of course, we are sovereign, so we make our own decisions, and we are the ones who decided we wanted to go to NATO. It is so clear that this is not about two equal positions, it is not about two countries that conclude contracts, but we want to join some integration that already has its own rules drawn up and that it is necessary to adopt them. However, I would like to ask whether this passiveness of the government in this campaign may also be linked to the finding in this government research, a public opinion survey which states that the decline in support for Slovenia's NATO membership in the Slovenian public is quite unevenly distributed. A government survey says: "We find that support has fallen mainly between the preferences of the Liberal Democracy and the United List."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much, colleague Janša, for your supplementary question. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you. Well, to tell you the truth, I haven't looked at this research in so much detail. So far, I'm not too worried about supporting Liberal Democracy. I have already said that some assessments, some critical comments recently, will really have to be re-evaluated. In fact, many countries revalue the current situation in the world, and this process is still under way. We have different reactions, different reactions of individuals, individual policies of countries and so on, the process is ongoing. Of course, we need to cooperate intensively. You have heard many times: after September 11, the world was different when it was before. A lot of things look completely different in global, international relations. The priorities have changed. Let's just imagine what it will be like if the events follow if there are new activities, new actions and, after all, new terrorist attacks can happen. Many countries are tightening their security measures in various areas, and the issue of security and current freedom is being raised in many ways completely new. So it's serious questions and I don't think at this point I can give definitive answers to everything that's going on in the world and what's going to happen. At the same time, Slovenia must be very active and very, very careful to monitor these phenomena, respond adequately and think about how to best ensure its safety. I repeat, all our assessments so far within the government have been to make it easier for us to ensure our security, better within the framework of the NATO alliance, which we also see as a link of countries with the same values, ultimately goals, as a link to stability and peace in the world. So not some organization that would be directed at anyone. I am confident that the public debate will continue, especially when it all comes to a decisive stage, a weighty, in-depth stage, and that we will be able to offer a range of convincing arguments for this direction. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. By answering the last question, you have also completed the first item of the agenda, which is the questions and initiatives of Members and Members. With this point I conclude and propose, given the hour that we interrupt today's 8th session and continue to consider tomorrow's 28th point, by continuing and deciding on the draft Rules of Procedure in the third reading, then with the 27th point, this is the Law on Drought, and the 12th point, this is the Law on Inspections. Thank you all for your cooperation, and once again, please? [[...]] Comrade Pucko, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just one announcement: I inform members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that today's meeting is adjourned at 1300 hours instead of 9 a.m. as agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much for this notice, Comrade Pucka. So, all of you have a nice evening, and you, Mr Prime Minister, do all the good again. I'm adjourning or adjourning the 8th session and continuing tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
