ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, I invite you to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We will continue our extraordinary session and, I hope, conclude today. Please come to the hall. Many colleagues and colleagues have made excuses for the meeting for the right reasons today, so that we will have to be quite disciplined to complete all the agenda items. Colleagues and colleagues, we'll try to establish a presence in the hall so that we can begin the meeting. Once again, I ask you to take your seats. I begin the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I beg for peace in the hall! Allow me to inform you of colleagues and colleagues who cannot attend meetings and have apologized [[There's a lot of them.]] : colleague Jelinčič, colleague Lavrič, colleague Pukšič, Bevk, Barovič, Kavtičnik, Rokavec, Kebric, Vnučec, Kramberger, Juban, Vizjak, Fabjan, Bozič, Malovrek, Trofenik, Dr. Gaber, Janc, Marcič, colleague Može will leave after 3 p.m., colleague Partljič, for the beginning of the meeting was excused by colleague Švagan, until 4:30 p.m. by colleague Zalokar Orazem, for the meeting of colleague Diaci, Čeligoj, Levič, Peterle, Drobnič, Battelli, colleague Posonec, colleague Školč, Jerovšek, Kacin and for the beginning of the meeting also colleague Pohorec. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we establish the presence of the Chamber. Please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Although there were enough cards to be inserted, there were not enough of them to press the "quorum" key. I'll wait a moment, and then we'll try to find another presence in the hall. I have already said that many of our colleagues and colleagues have apologized today, and we will have to take this into account in our decision-making. We're detecting a presence. Next time, we find presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. I propose that we continue the meeting at 2.25 p.m.; then we will also receive a written report on the table. From the 11th extraordinary session we have left to deal with the 7th item. I will also suggest that we close the 10th meeting today and move the four outstanding items to the next meeting We'll meet again at 2.25 p.m. I ask all the colleagues and colleagues who are in the National Assembly - as we say - today there are many excuses - to come to the large debate room; until then I am adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u2	This is the third time we'll be able to determine the presence. It's 2:25. I will once again invite everyone who is in the lobby of the hall to come to the hearing room and, with a conclusion, to continue the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, I will determine the presence in the hall. I'm asking for peace. We're picking up a presence at the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 50 Members and Members present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Representatives of the government are also invited to attend today's meeting and can be welcomed. As stated, for today's continuation of the 11th extraordinary meeting, the 7th item of the agenda remains under consideration, namely the draft law on the implementation of the 2002 and 2003 budget. May I kindly request some of your attention? Before we go to the treatment of this point, allow me to inform you that all the cameras that will allow the direct transmission of the meetings are already installed in the large hall. The cameras are connected to a video studio located in room 326 on the third floor. This month, according to the schedule, cameras will be tested and cameras will be on and on during the meeting of the National Assembly today, but at this stage the video signal will not be used or used exclusively to test the system in the National Assembly, and the signal will not be transmitted to any of the media houses. After successfully completed testing of this video system, we will also be able to perform direct session transmissions, which will also be informed in time. With regard to the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, where four other items of the agenda are open, I will propose, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly after the end of today's session, that these items be moved to one of the future meetings of the Assembly. This will allow us to conclude the 10th meeting and to convene the next meeting. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2002 and 2003. The law is filed in a fast-track procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. I'm asking the representative, does she want the opening statement? Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I would like to say that the annual law on the implementation of the budget is a direct condition for the implementation and implementation of the budgets adopted in the previous year. This year's law on budget implementation differs from past years in that it covers a two-year budget period and the law generally contains all the provisions in such a way that they should apply both for 2002 and for 2003, with the exception of exceptional solutions explicitly written. As in previous years, the law regulates key areas, namely the structure of the state budget, the extent of the country's indebtedness and guarantees and of the whole public sector, lays down specificities in the implementation of the budget and the specificity of the management and sale of state assets. The fact is that, at this point, systemic legislation has not yet been adopted which would specify in more detail the procedures for the sale of state property, and it is therefore envisaged that, in 2002, these issues will also be addressed with regard to the procedures for the sale of state property under the law on the implementation of the budget. We anticipate that at the beginning of next year the government will introduce into the National Assembly a system law regulating the sale of state property, which will not differ significantly from the solutions proposed in the law on the implementation of the budget. Let me perhaps draw your attention to some of the solutions in the law that are different from the solutions that we had in 2001 or in recent years. One of the important solutions set out in the law on the implementation of the budget and supposed to apply for 2002 is the abolition of the so-called deferred financial year or the abolition of the transfer of excise and value-added revenue from 2002 in January 2003. This solution, which is legally regulated here, has already been thoroughly processed in the adoption of the proposal or in the adoption of the 2002 budget. But here are the normative solutions, which, of course, condition that in 2002 we have 11-month revenues from these two important taxes. Another important novelty, or amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget, is that we substantially tighten the criteria for the powers of the government during the implementation of the budget. The Law on the implementation of the budget in accordance with the Law on Public Finance gives the government powers over the course of the year to redistribute resources between purposes. Last year or this year 2001 we began to limit the possibility of redistribution of the government for the first time. It has turned out that the matter has escaped and that we can tighten the conditions for redistribution and thus empower the government during the implementation of the budget. This may appear to be an insignificant act, but the government considers it extremely important, for two reasons. The first reason is that this gives greater weight to the decisions of the National Assembly on the structure of budgetary expenditure adopted. Another important innovation that we bring is that we are improving the budgeting system itself and improving accuracy in determining the budgetary expenditure of all budgetary users. At the same time, we are giving these restrictions to the government, so the government is proposing that the National Assembly grant it some other powers. And one of the important powers that the government is supposed to have in this case, if you choose to do so, is that, in the future, it is no longer to target the budget deficit that we set out in the budget, but should be limited to, or should be aimed at, budgetary expenditure in terms of scale and structure, as set out in the National Assembly, irrespective of the fact that any revenue resulting from other economic developments from the forecast. This is a novelty that we bring, and it is not a novelty that is, in fact, exceptional and that we only invent in our country, but it is a solution that many Western European countries have in particular in those that do not have in the event of an economic recession or a weakened economic growth for this purpose specific economic laws that solve these problems. The law continues to give, that is to say, the earmarked revenue of the budget and the dedicated expenditure of the budget. Here we follow the amended Law on Public Finances and make some exceptions when funds can be used from the sale of state property for another form of state property. Everything else, which is not listed in the law on the implementation of the budget as an exception, is an automatic revenue that serves to reduce government debt or to cover principals' repayment. One more thing, I think, is important and is also related to the two-year budget, this is the implementation of the principle that we have already introduced into the system with the 2001 budget - this is a development agenda plan. In fact, with the Development Programme Plan, you have drawn up multi-annual investments in specific areas in the National Assembly, which is why we are also adapting to this commitment in future periods. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in assuming commitments for future periods, there is no hidden deficit in the country, but it is simply that the individual budgetary users who have a five-year investment in the development programme plan can conclude a contract for the entire five-year period, but they are, of course, committed to bringing enough resources into future budgets to cover this investment. This narrows down the space that we have available in future budgets to set up new projects, but in some cases where investment cycles are longer, this is the only possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which is the parent working body. I ask the President, my colleague Puck, to present the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Given the importance of this law, the labour force in question dealt with the law at a four-time meeting, which finally continued and we managed to get through today after a rather extensive debate on individual articles, amendments by the government and amendments, which were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, until the end. This is why you do not yet have an appropriate report on your food, which will be available in a short time, as well as a review of the amendments themselves. The members and members of the Committee have specifically stopped in some of the provisions of this Law for the implementation of the budget for the next two years, in particular on the question of the purposefulness of the revenue and expenditure of the budget, referred to in Articles 5 and 6, when the applicable spending rights are transferred over the years, when these rights are redistributed and when transfers are decided by the Government referred to in Article 10. There has also been much debate on Article 14, which refers to the maximum level of direct user liability to be paid in future years, as well as the payment deadlines under the national budget referred to in Article 16. Members and members of the Committee also paid a great deal of attention to the article on the application of the provisions on the sale of real and financial property of the State, on the methods, on the programme of this sale, as well as, of course, on certain amendments of the Government, particularly those relating to the amendment to the 31st Article, which refers to an increase in the 15 billion tolar debt, in order to give the Government more room for manoeuvre, in the event that the revenues realised would be lower than those foreseen by the adopted budget for each year. After a substantively rich debate, the Committee adopted a number of its amendments and supported the government's amendments to the individual articles of the law. I suggest you support the Committee's amendments and the Government's amendments, supported by the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President, colleague Pucko. I'm asking the secretariat if she wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] I thus give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Anyone want to take a stand and present their position? Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard the report of Mr President of the Committee on Finance and I find that we do not yet have this material in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u8	He'll be on the table any minute. That's how they get me jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I think it's pointless that we continue this meeting if we don't have the material in hand and we don't know how the committee actually decided. Only then can we make our own presentation. I know that the votes are enough to adopt this and all other laws in this national assembly, but I think at least for cosmetic reasons, you can give us permission to read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u10	My colleague, Dr. Bayuk, before we go to the decision-making process, as always, we would have an urgent report before us. I wanted to ask if the parliamentary groups could present their position without it. Your comment is in place. Whoever gave it to me should take it into account. Otherwise, the services assure me that we should get this report on the table at any moment, but we will suspend the session until the report is on the table. I'll tell you a few minutes before we go any further, or we'll start at 3 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u11	I invite all Members and Members kindly to come to the Hall. We now have a comprehensive report, on 20 pages, on the proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003. An even more extensive review of the amendments may be possible, so I would like to inform you that the services are doing their best to prepare this in time for the decision. Now I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, because we will identify the presence and continue the discussion; the representatives of the groups of Members will receive the floor. We will find attendance in the hall, colleagues and colleagues. Please take your seats. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're in the middle of finding out who's in the hall. There are 48 Members and Members present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. As we say, we have just received a comprehensive report on the draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2002 and 2003. This now allows us to start a general debate. I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak first. A colleague of mags. Vizjak wishes to present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! I will continue to present the views of the Social Democratic Party on the law on the implementation of the budget for both years, 2002 and 2003, which we have drawn mainly on the basis of the findings of last year's debate or this year's debate on implementation, or on the law on the implementation of the budget for 2001 and on the long-term and in-depth debate on the Committee on Finance, which has been held for several hours or in three futures, with a view to clarifying certain concepts and, of course, not least, on our initiative, some solutions have been adopted which, according to my assessment, raise the quality and quality of this law. However, we will not support this law in the Social Democratic Party. But we will not support him for the following reasons. The greatest indication of this law on the implementation of the budget is that, in part, it is only for a period of two years that the privatisation of state property is regulated and, consequently, the privatisation of the property of local communities. We believe that this is a bad solution, which does not adequately address the area of privatisation of state property, and we are somehow not convinced by the Government's argument why it has not already submitted a law on privatisation of state property to the National Assembly. In particular, this retention property, which governs the economic services and, of course, also the management of public goods, applies. I think that such a partial approach does not allow for a quality, efficient and dedicated sale of state property and, of course, offers some temporary solutions that will not produce optimal results, particularly in terms of the interests of the State and of its citizens, of course. Another important reason why we will not support this law is that the law on the implementation of the budget still gives to the government and, of course, also to the direct budget users, that is, to the ministries, too much power to redistribute the funds allocated to them under the adopted budget. According to our assessment, and here I will point out two cases that testify that these powers have in fact not changed completely to the government and the ministries. It is true that the government goes here in some less important areas to restrict the power to reallocation, but when we talk about reallocation under the same programme or sub-programme, the direct user can self-distribute between budget lines of 20% and the government can also decide on transfers between sub-programmes within the main programme within 20% of the scope of the sub-programme. I think that somehow the government is going through what the National Assembly is doing here. Indeed, in the course of the budgetary debate and in the course of the debate on a number of amendments to the budget, we have allocated and allocated very little resources to implement certain programmes. At the same time, today, the law gives direct budgetary users and, of course, the Ministry of "Bianco" the power to carry out these transfers of 20% and thus in fact becomes our budgetary debate completely irrelevant and is also a question of whether it makes sense. Here I would appeal to Members and Members to ask whether there is any point in continuing the adoption of the budget if, later on, the powers of the Government and the powers of direct budgetary users can reduce or restrict these funds. A further, very important observation to this law on the implementation of the budget is the novelty it introduces, and this is in particular a novelty that speaks of borrowing or additional debt. I would read the amendment, which is attached and is an amendment of the government, and goes in a package with this law, which says that, irrespective of the provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget, we can be additionally indebted to the extent that ensures the realisation of the amount of expenditure in the approved budget for each year, up to a maximum of 15 billion Slovenian tolars. In view of the adopted budget, which has also spoken clearly about debt and debt, we are giving the government again the "bianco" mandate to be in charge through the already accepted volume of 15 billion Slovenian tolars. Some other European countries have a similar solution, but given the fact that they do not have such powers, the government does not have such powers as to redistribute funds between individual budget lines and thus somehow balance expenditure with revenue. In fact, we are giving the government additional powers of engagement and I do not think we can support this amendment in any way. I am surprised that the government has not reached out to the possibility of a rebalancing and if there are arguments for additional indebtedness and for a serious breach also in the relationship between the expenditure and revenue of the state budget, why it does not provide the national assembly with a balance and why it avoids this method as the only appropriate method. For if the National Assembly adopts the budget, the National Assembly is also the only competent body to accept such substantial changes in the budget. We therefore strongly oppose this power of government, which allows for an additional debt of up to 15 billion Slovenian Tolars, and there is only one promise to report this to the National Assembly. We are also opposed to this draft budget because of the provisions on so-called overtime or commitment. It is true that this year is a novelty because we have adopted a two-year budget or you have adopted a two-year budget, and this also makes it easier to assume commitments in the form of contracts for the following years. However, in view of the projected economic developments, in view of the projected recession and given the reasonable fear that the implementation of the budget, in particular through the provision of revenue to this budget, will be carried out in the manner envisaged, it seems to me that the volume of 80 % overrun for the following years is for investments as well as for services and goods, which is an excessive overrun, at the same time making it impossible for the budget to adapt to the budget in the next year in view of the changed circumstances. I would like to say that the budget should also set the maximum amount of overtime, the total amount of overtime that would allow the government to achieve, in the event of changes in the economic trends with the rebalancing, the harmonisation of the revenue and expenditure side in this soft work, on this part, which allows adjustments, of course, not to suffer some other areas that represent fixed liabilities, and, of course, there is no possibility of adapting the implementation of the budget to new macroeconomic assumptions and developments in the future. Therefore, we believe that such a major overload can be very dangerous and can lead to significant economic changes in the future major difficulties in the implementation of this country's legal obligations. For this soft part of the budget is also fixed very high. This law on the implementation of the budget is, of course, also opposed by the very unacceptable provision of Article 17, which refers to the application of the general budget reservation, which provides for the use of funds from budgetary reserves also for the purposes of the salaries of newly employed workers and officials in non-governmental and judicial direct users and, of course, for the payment of charged newspapers. According to our assessment, the budget reservation is very good, or the purpose of applying the budget reservation is defined in the Public Finance Act, so this article of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets does not seem to be necessary, but may even indicate or entangle certain budgetary users or non-governmental and judicial users to apply this Article, that is to say for the salaries of newly employed workers in terms of spending funds on budgetary reservations. I understand that this article was somehow, or is still applicable to the law on the implementation of the 2001 budget, even in the law, because the introduction of passports followed, and in fact it was harder to anticipate the cost of printing Today, this matter is predictable and completely unnecessary and even inappropriate, that this provision, which is referred to as Article 17, remains in the law on the implementation of the budget. I would also touch on another important provision of the law on the implementation of the budget, which is totally unacceptable from a systemic point of view, even though the government has a legal basis for this decision. This is to raise the value added tax rate in the law on the implementation of the budget and it does not work in the system law, which is the value added tax law governing this area. We have always found that the law on the implementation of the budget interferes with a number of other system laws and thus undermines some transparency of Slovenian legislation and the consistency of this Slovenian legislation, since someone who wants to determine how the matter is formally regulated has to be searched by a number of regulations and, last but not least, sees that the law on the implementation of the budget also interferes with this matter. That is why I see no reason why the government has reached a level increase here in the law on the implementation of the budget and why it has not defined this in the value added tax law. Let me mention a number of other examples that make it clear that by means of this law on the implementation of the budget we introduce certain exceptions into a number of system laws. It is the wages and promotion of workers in state bodies. This is about raising the value added tax. This is an infringement of the law on public procurement, because we are introducing some specific features, we want to introduce some specific features regarding public procurement, and of course also in additional debt. These are - not to mention, of course, the privatisation of state property - temporary interventions through temporary laws to a very important substance, which I believe would require a more comprehensive and systematic approach. Such partial work and decision-making and laying down rules for the government's game in the Social Democratic Party will not be taken, we will not confirm this and we will vote against the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Visa for presentation of the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. It's Sašo Peca's turn. It will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003 sets out the third element of the regulation of public finances within our country, namely, the area which we have in the past period been ruled by both Parliament and the professional services, which we have referred to in a number of negative, many positive, some black-eyed and some optimistic. In our view, public financial non-discipline is already today, at the moment when the law on the implementation of the budget has not yet been adopted, but the budget for 2002 and 2003 has been adopted at such a high level that this law will only give it a stronger green light, which is the basis of the budget, namely the budget for 2002 and 2003. Since, at least in our opinion, this is a strictly linked sequence of all these three elements, it also seems pointless to us that, in the absence of support for the budget itself for both years, we cannot give support to this enforcement bill as well. Today we will not repeat the introduction of VAT, as the representative also said before me. However, I am sure that VAT plays another important role, especially in public consumption, and thus to raise economic growth, which we believe is more than exclusively related to, in our opinion, the upcoming rebalancing in the sixth, seventh or eighth months of next year, and which will put this law on the head, as well as the two budgets adopted. I am pleased to say that today we find this very unsettling approach, a very insurmountable approach by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposes to us to adopt a new one, in our opinion too many powers for individual ministers or governments to put pressure on inflation movements in particular, namely the impact of prices on inflation. This will bring counter-effects to what Minister Rop himself recently said about, say, an effective anti-cyclical economic policy that will prevent negative phenomena in our economy. I believe that only those who oppose the draft budget will oppose the law, because this is the only thing that makes sense, and in the Slovenian National Party we will follow this sense and this economic logic too, so we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I ask, does any other group of Members wish to present their views? [[He does.]] Mr Bajuk will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. You have the floor, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. Then any of the other members of the group would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will move on to the positions of Members and Members. Please, Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to state at least some reasons why we will not support the law on the implementation of the budget. As I had already had the opportunity to say in this same Chamber, when we adopted a two-year budget last Friday, 30 November, we regret that the government has lost this extraordinary opportunity it had to take a step towards greater transparency and a real presentation of the situation of our public finances. We can continue to play with ourselves and continue to act as if we were fooling ourselves. But the fact is that we are at the threshold of entering the European Union, where things will have to be arranged in a more transparent way, based on the patterns and criteria the world knows, and we will have to remove ourselves from our own, I would say, very specific ways of working in this area, which have accumulated over the past four years and today represent a very vague picture of the real situation. It's not just the words of the opposition, it's our role to warn. We have also warned before the beginning of this year that there is another deficit, and we have been ridiculed. Today, however, 75 billion is described and projected for next year. We reiterate that the imprudentness of our system is damaging the reputation and, above all, the possibility of smart management by the means entrusted to us by citizens and citizens. Above all, we are opposed to the law on the implementation of the budget, because it is still the last step to complicate everything for two years, and further because steps and permits are proposed to intervene in 2004. To whom, though, does this serve so that we can deceive ourselves for these things and perhaps for temporary reasons of political presentation? The question of the privatisation of state-owned property is, above all, an issue that requires a system law once and for all. This has already been debated by our ancestors in this National Assembly in 1994, and we have not come anywhere. In 1998, another law was put in place, so we didn't do anything. One privatisation law has already passed through the first hearing, corrections for the second reading have been submitted during the previous government, but the current government has withdrawn this proposal. The reason and the explanation, however, was that we would come up with systemic solutions in the Public Finance Act. The Public Finance Act was amended quickly only to adapt to the urgent problems of the Ministry of Finance and the government as a whole. We don't have a system law yet. And I'm asking you what we're waiting for. When are we going to have a system law? Or when it's all sold? Are we not now at the threshold of chapter two of savage privatisation, which is a major reason for deepening the distribution of our society? What else must happen to us if we are to take responsibility once and for all for all these things that have been entrusted to us? We cannot support this law precisely because it does not want to resolve these issues. We continue with the same redistribution approach and flexibility, which is nothing more than our departure from the responsibility we have as a national assembly. That is the essence of the democratic system, that power over the scrotum is vested in the national assembly and Parliament. And we will now accept that the bona fide government, no matter what its composition is, because it is not so important, it is finally only that this house and we who are here have this responsibility and we will be relieved of this responsibility at the moment we press these buttons. Of course, New Slovenia won't. Uncertainty about the debt. But what else must happen in Slovenia, in order to continue to give the "bianca" the opportunity of the executive authority to continue to be in debt, instead of once and for all admiting that we have problems, that we have to solve them together and that we will not achieve anything if only future generations struggle with our irresponsible action. The inaccuracy of our system, the overcrowding. I ask again what else has to happen. Why should Slovenia, once and for all, not be subject to the well-known and recognised principles of accounting around the world, not to mention specific [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Which we have to fulfill anyway. [[...]] Yeah, how do you think we're gonna represent ourselves under Europe and meet the Maastricht criteria? With this law on budget implementation, too expensive for a colleague and a colleague, it will not work. Intransigence is an essential feature of this proposal and therefore we cannot support it. Of course, we also do not accept Article 17 and we have already proposed an amendment to delete it. Finally, shortcomings in the proposal on how certain decisions concerning privatisation should be implemented. In the law on auditing we have adopted a special feature, a Slovenian specialty, and this is that we have given this national assembly the public powers of assessors. Today we hide behind evaluators who are not as controlled as we should be if we trust them in this way. We have proposed an amendment, and we demand that responsibility for certain prices be taken by the government and those with this historical responsibility to do so for a fair assessment. Not that what we all know is happening - that certain officials are hiding behind experts and saying, "I can't do anything, but that's what the profession has decided." How are we going to explain to our citizens and citizens that we are selling at ridiculous prices things that are sustainable property? Dear colleagues and colleagues, New Slovenia cannot adopt this law and we invite you to join us, once and for all, to provide our country with a clear picture of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. I ask, would any of the other members of the group like a word to present their views? [[He doesn't want to.]] None of the colleagues and colleagues have applied in writing for the debate. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretary? Excuse me, please! I didn't see you. I'm sorry. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I cannot go beyond the observations addressed to this law on the implementation of the budget. I would like to touch on the three key points that have been raised in the debates of all the debaters. The first key issue was transparency of public finances. I believe that the law on the implementation of the budget itself does not work at any point towards reducing the transparency of public finances, but on the contrary, with some of the solutions we are proposing, it increases the transparency of public finances and builds on a system that would also provide greater payment discipline. Let me get this straight. Today, on the Committee on Finance, there was a very thorough and long-standing discussion on the solution proposed for local communities under municipal budgets. The provision we have proposed should allow for the implementation of the Public Finance Act, which provides that local communities form part of municipal budgets, that local communities are direct budgetary users. In all the discussions of all the discussers, it was obvious that the solutions to this issue, which would lead to the implementation of the Public Finance Act, did not find their support. Second thing. The power of the government to increase its debt in the event that economic movements go worse than planned, which would mean actually lower budget expenditure, pardons, budget revenues and the target of budgetary expenditure, which is confirmed here in this National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the budget, seems to you to be an inappropriate solution. But look, in the second half of the year, the government actually finds that the revenue of the budget is moving differently and that the year will end at a different level. What else can a government in the second half of the year do to stifle expenditure? Well, relatively little, actually. It can reach for investment expenditure and reduce it. That's all he's got in his hand. If he wants to behave countercyclically, as would be expected in such a case, then he must not do so. If he wants to behave differently to reduce other expenses, he will cause payment discipline. So with this mandate that we are giving here, we are actually giving to the government, not only to the government, but to all actors implementing the state budget, the opportunity to increase payment discipline, to stick to what is confirmed in Parliament, and not to burden the national assembly without need, to decide on things that should not be put back on the table and decided on them. Therefore, the Government has also set a limit to which such treatment is appropriate. Over this limit, the national assembly should decide again how to proceed. In my opinion, however, this law on the implementation of the budget follows other objectives that some in the law see. It follows that the transparency of public finances is enhanced, therefore, by respecting the will of the National Assembly in setting budgets and by providing instruments to increase payment discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to stop again in this debt, or under this option of borrowing, an additional 15 billion Slovenian tolars. The Secretary of State has mentioned what remains of the other government if the macroeconomic scenario does not take place along the path that we think will take place today and, of course, puts the budget implementation and implementation into question for the second half of the year. I stress, the balance sheet and the 40th section of the Public Finance Act. The 40th Article of the Public Finance Act refers to measures to balance the budget at these events. I think this is the only transparent way to behave and how the government should act in this case. Everything else is somehow beyond the power and limits of the decision-making of the National Assembly, and we think that it is a matter of such importance that it is necessary to come to the National Assembly, as far as the reasons are concerned. I'm stressing again. Now we have three deadlines for deficits, or for this additional debt or deficit, or whatever we call it. One is the normal deficit, which revolves around 1% of the gross domestic product. One is now a compensatory deficit and now an additional debt in the event of changes in economic trends. I know that there can and will probably be problems in the implementation of the budget, particularly in the provision of the revenue side of the budget. I am sure that we will be able to spend what we have written inside easily, and we would spend once again as much as it is in the budget if, of course, we had the revenue to do so. With regard to this year's value added tax assessment, I estimate that the next year will be accompanied by a fall in income from all other sources linked to somewhat slow economic growth and, of course, by slowing down or lowering private consumption, as foreseen in the government's macroeconomic assumptions. I therefore reiterate that we would also like to confirm this forecast of what will happen. If nothing else, we will be able to comment on it in one year or more, it would be right for the government to come to the National Assembly on these amended matters and, of course, also in the National Assembly, to obtain approval and agreement. This is no problem with this majority, but there would also be an appropriate debate. Therefore, I do not see why we should have this Bianca's mandate after further indebtedness in the coming period, so once again I would urge Members to give serious thought to whether they will give all these powers to the government after additional indebtedness. I believe that at least what we can do in this law on the implementation of the budget is that we do not support this government amendment, which speaks of the possibility of additional debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, would you like to make an explanation? [[No, no, ……]] I'm asking, does anyone else want a word before we close the debate? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Secretary of State about this amendment by the Government, which foresees this additional commitment in 2002, 2003 so that the government can additionally be in charge of up to 15 billion tolars. I ask her, given her previous explanation, when she said that revenue in 2002 would cover only excise duties and, she said, customs for 11 months. Does this mean an additional debt in 2002 and 2003 or a total of 15 billion in both of these years? From this amendment alone, we cannot determine whether in both years it is a 15 billion debt or in each year for that amount. According to Article 12, the second paragraph, where it says, "until a new legal arrangement, the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, as set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, shall be provided for the implementation of this national programme in 2002 and 2003 to the maximum of the amount set out in the budget". Does this mean that in the next two years we will not be able to get this new programme into the National Assembly, it is said, a national programme's rebalance, or does it mean that when the national programme is adopted again, it will also change, I don't know, by what key, the means to build motorways. This is because this programme is not being implemented in the way it is set up and that certain environments that have been planned after this national programme for the construction of certain motorway sections want to know when they are actually going to turn. From what is stated in the law on the implementation of the budget, it is possible to read that the government, in the next two years, says in 2002 and 2003, does not intend to propose this national programme for the construction of motorways to the National Assembly at all, but that programme will be carried out in accordance with the adopted programme in these two budgets. So if you can answer these two questions, if I've been understanding enough, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Madam Secretary of State, colleague Sok asked you two questions, would you like to answer them? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. First question. The amendment to Article 31 is, in fact, set out in a way that is essential to what I have also stressed in the introduction. The budget is to be implemented within the scope of the budgetary expenditure approved in the National Assembly. If, as a result of lower economic growth or any other macroeconomic indicator, the revenue would have been realised to a lesser extent than planned in the 2002 and 2003 budget, then the Government, if so voted, would have the power to replace this expenditure outflow in order to implement the certified expenditure in the National Assembly up to 15 billion dollars in 2002 and for the same amount in 2003. This would ensure the realisation in the national assembly of a certified volume of budgetary expenditure infrastructure, irrespective of the fact that any economic developments would lead to lower budgetary revenues. As regards the rebalancing of the plan for the construction of state roads and the law on the construction of state roads, in fact, as has already been the case in the law, only the amount of resources to be provided in the year for which the budget is adopted is determined. The government has a law laying down a way, i.e. the provision of funds for the construction of state roads, is already ready and is currently in inter-departmental coordination. I am counting on him to go through the government procedure in a short time, and he will be included in the National Assembly. However, the balance between the construction of state roads is also being prepared. I can't tell you exactly when the balance will be ready. However, the balance sheet will be prepared in such a way that for 2002 and 2003, for which the budget has been adopted for two years, it will not exceed the amounts set out in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to discuss the content of the solution proposed by the Government when it accurately sets out the purpose of the budget reserve. Most likely, the government representatives present here will not be able to answer one very specific question. As you are aware, the National Assembly has adopted at least three laws over the past three years to remedy the consequences of the storms, 1999, 2000 and 2001, and, of course, the first law, this is an earthquake recovery law. In my view, the government has made the right decision when it has increased the budget reserve and has also set up the exact amount or with the amendment will allow the budget reserve to be used for the implementation of these five laws. But it seems that in Slovenia there are very many reptiles because of the geological structure. The data I have, for example, will only be fully realized by the removal of the effects of the storms in 2000 by recovering some large beaches. In Slovenia, however, there are very many small reptiles, over 2600. 34 Slovene municipalities already with rehabilitation programs and all other necessary documentation, with other documentation, expect to be able to participate in this law. So it's the smaller reptiles. If I properly understand the provision of this amendment and the fact that the funds will only be sufficient for some of the large reptiles and I support them to be repaired, such as the beach at the Ajdovščina, at Lokavac, then this simply means that in the next two years, smaller municipalities will be wiped out under their noses. I'm asking the government representatives if my assessment is correct. If it's right, then I'd be very specific about our 2000 solutions. Since then, many Slovenian municipalities have planned this source from the country in the budgets and will not receive it again for the next two years. It seems to me like the people who got hurt by the reptiles are unfair. If I receive such a response, then on behalf of the Group of Members, I will table an amendment to the Government's amendment and I will propose that this budget reserve may also be used to address the effects of the landslide on local infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I missed the meeting a little bit because we were with the Austrian delegation at lunch and I'm going to get involved with one question. I see here that under Article 6 there are assigned revenue and expenditure on the budget. Under point 2, the assigned revenue on the financial and investment account in 2002 is the following revenue, and so on, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 24 of the Public Finance Act. "The purchase of capital investments in Tallum d.d., which shall be used for up to a maximum of 13 billion tolars and the next order of business" and so on. [[...]] I want to know where that number came from. Does that mean it's already a purchase for Talum? This is then a catastrophic move by the government, and it is clear that the government has no interest in selling state property at market prices. In fact, this purchase is decreasing from year to year. It is true, however, that if the sale is made now, this year, the purchase will be even lower because the country has been waiting for the contract to pass in the aluminium industry when it was possible to sell the company at a good price. It's a temporary recession now, and that's why it couldn't be sold. The publication of this figure is a mistake from the point of view of the trading strategy of this company. Let me tell you, because I just got the information that the surface half of this former TGA company was sold for, I don't know if I have the right data, for 2 million 700 marks, 12 hectares of land with 8 km of industrial track, the best industrial zone in Slovenia, then I see what the state has to do with state property. That's why I don't think there's anything going on here. This company will make a new investment next year or it is just before the end. Now I don't know if it's those debts that are hired to make this investment and whose debts will then be those. The previous investment, which was 300 million marks, mainly went to public debt, despite the fact that the company made a clear $150 million profit in one and a half years in the interim, but that the information was where the money was then shipped or did not come to the factory. I want clear answers as to what Talum's sales strategy is and how Minister Digač sells it. It's too big a deal to sell. Government ministers have been working on this for 10 years. They experience a turnover through Prague and so on, mention ministers there who all help in this sale in order to come into a precise set of hands at the lowest possible price. I want answers. I also asked the question three weeks ago, about this, and I didn't get it until we get Members of the public answers on how to sell state property, we don't have to decide how to distribute this money. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Maybe the answer to the last question first. As regards the provision of Article 6 relating to the purchase of funds from Tallum, I must say from the outset that the sales price of Talum is not determined by this law and is not directly related to the value set here. The link is only to the extent that it is expected that the sales price will be at least as set out here. If it's lower, the country's probably not going to sell the Talum at all. In this case, of course, there will also be no expenditure related to revenues from the sale of Talum. It is precisely the purpose of this dedicated budget and revenue expenditure that the expenditure is to be realised only on condition that the revenue side is also realized. Otherwise, there won't be any of these expenses. Article 6 is written in all points which are written in such a way that the purchase of the individual sale of the particular property is used in accordance with the order laid down in the law. If the funds from the purchase are reduced at a certain point, then, of course, the matter is stopped earlier and the last points listed here for which the purchase is intended to be spent will not be realized. With regard to the Talum sales strategy itself, I cannot answer you right now, because the strategy is not yet set. On the basis of the sale programme submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, a specific Talum sales programme will be developed in the following year. There will also be a strategy for the sale of this property. However, it is essential that the link between the sale of this particular company and the economic recession is not particularly significant. The link is, in fact, to the price of electricity. This will also be a key element that will determine somehow the selling strategy of this company. Perhaps another question that has been raised here - although there is no such thing as Mr Sponik, I do not know whether or not to answer it, it is probably reasonable for me to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u32	With regard to the budgetary reserve provided for in Article 20 and the amendment to Article 20, the case is currently put in such a way that, for 2002 in fact, funds are provided for the implementation of all the five laws listed here. In addition, there is still some space, about 1 billion and some over, for the realization of unforeseen events. If things are going differently with regard to other unforeseen events, then the budget will have to be supplemented in this part. It is true that there is actually an open law on value that specifies the elimination of the consequences - just a moment to find it - for the Sousca, that is, the law that provides for the recovery of the Sousca by the earthquake. This law is not accurately valid and, in fact, the annual use of appropriations from the budget reserve is determined on the basis of the rehabilitation programme adopted by the Government in Posač. In this case, the next year is planned to implement the programme adopted by the government this year, but not yet implemented; the programme will be adopted in 2003 and its value will be determined. As far as the 2003 reserve is concerned, in fact all laws other than the Soča Rehabilitation Act will be implemented and the space for this law and for any other unforeseen events will be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u33	The colleagues of Dr. Bajuk and colleague Jerovšek asked for the floor. First of all, Dr. Bajuk's colleague has the floor. I ask everyone else for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is also related to Article 6, paragraph 3, which states that the earmarked revenue in the 2003 financial claims and investments account will be earmarked for an increase - it is said to be the sale of 3 billion of Luka Koper, of which 3 billion is first in line, as explained by the Secretary of State, the increase in capital investments from the Investment Fund for the South-East Markets to 1 billion tolars. I would like to ask how much money is already in this frame, why we have 240 million in terms of the Slovenian government's strategy for supporting the economy, because I need to find that at the same time for tourism in our country, on our soil, we have 240 million to develop and maintain the settlement of the Slovenian countryside and to implement the measures of the agricultural structural policy. I find it difficult to understand, and I would also like to ask very concretely whether it also has access to these funds of this fund, for example, the New Ljubljana Bank, which surprises us every day in its public reports to buy banks in southeastern Europe, in our previous common country, which is not known in the world according to its transparency and the strength of its financial institutions. I would like to know if we are already assuming that we will cover these losses, why such an investment advantage in Southeast Europe, and so little for Slovenian tourism and for the structural policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. While the Secretary of State did not give accurate information about Taloma's sale, she said she was not aware of it or said a great deal about her reply. In fact, the strategy will be developed in the coming year, despite the fact that the country has been dealing with the sale of this company for ten years, that when the country is in the price of aluminium, then, in fact, if it already intends to sell, it should sell at a time when the prices are purely different. Therefore, her theory that the price, the purchase for Talum is not related to the recession in the world, perhaps not, but to the recessional situation in the field of raw aluminium. It is true that it is linked to the price of electricity, but it is because of the long-term strategy of such companies and because of the way I received the answer, I think that this diction, which is written here, is, to a maximum of 13 billion, already somehow gives the orientation of the price for selling the Talum. I think the Talum will be sold under such criteria as that of a sister, once a single company, for 2 million 700 marks, I have now received official information. 12 hectares of industrial zone with 8 kilometres of railway track, with all the infrastructure. I think that actually Slovenian assets are being sold under such conditions. I was here to witness perseverance. Several times the opportunity was to sell this same company at significantly higher prices, but it would not have been in the right hands because they would have had exactly the predestined buyers, who are domestic Slovenian buyers, but who do not want to pay the purchases. I think it's embarrassing for this country to keep repeating the patterns that go like this forever and ever. This is how you take us to total bankruptcy. Don't say there's no strategy and you're not familiar with the strategy. The strategy is elaborated in this Article. Sell at the lowest possible price that the state will have nothing of it to come into the precise hands of the pre-destined buyers, who will be able to pay for any election campaign with financial effects and what else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Would you like to give any answers, Madam Secretary of State? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much. First answer to Mr. Bayuk. The programmes referred to in Article 6(3) are entirely programmes that increase or increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This 1st item will include state aid programmes for Slovenian companies that will take part in the South East market. In short, we want to help the Slovenian economy for a better and faster penetration into the south-eastern market, which at this time, especially with reduced economic growth and demand in Western Europe, appears to us as a good alternative to maintaining or at least reducing economic growth. Just a sentence to Mr Jerovsk. Once again, I would like to point out that the Talum price is not set at 13 billion, such as the value of the purchase that we will devote to individual budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, colleague of Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Madam Secretary of State. I would also like to hear if these are funds that can be made available to Slovenian banks, otherwise state-owned, which are now investing very strongly in one market, but which is not in the financial sphere, I do not know what kind of reputation in world circles. Thank you very much. This is a risk, a great risk, so I hope that we will also get answers in this National Assembly, because we find it very strange that today, just as we privatise this institution, at least this is how the Prime Minister tells us that he is determined in this area, but at the same time we are investing these funds in highly questionable investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mrs Secretary of State for his reply. I listened to him in my office when I was preparing an amendment to Article 20. First of all, there will be no misunderstanding, I support the government's amendment to increase the budget reserve and also to determine which laws will be covered by this increase. Above all, the problem is that the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms and landslides - I stress, the rise of soil - and the service of the sea in 2000 is simply very, very short. In the year that we were preparing the law, 34 congregations were mentioned to be able to participate under this law. Because apparently some of the beaches in those days were very large, there will be no money for these smaller reptiles in the coming year. However, the National Assembly, when considering one of the intervention laws on the subject of these storms, proposed a decision and proposed to the government that a national programme should be prepared as soon as possible to address the effects of the landslides on local infrastructure. This programme is just before adoption and I will propose with the amendment myself - I do not know if I will be successful - to add point 6 in the amendment to the government, which will at least formally allow the government to have financial coverage to cover at least some of the reptiles in these Slovenian municipalities on the basis of this provision of the budget implementation law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Before I give my word to the Secretary of State, I'm asking if anyone else would like a word? [[He does.]] My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! On this issue, which is now taking place here, with regard to these capital investments and this debate, which is currently on the table, I am wondering whether - or now the criteria are probably not known, under what criteria, and under what conditions will our companies, whether they are banks or economic institutions or whatever will receive these incentives, 1 billion, now we do not know under what conditions they will take part in foreign markets. Whether this means actually moving capital from Slovenia to another republic and thus impoverishing capital investments in Slovenia, of course also reducing certain capacities or new jobs in Slovenia, reducing jobs in Slovenia, because the labour force in Slovenia is expensive, and opening new jobs in other, undeveloped republics where higher profits will be generated, and in their system of ownership of state property - logically, it is going to be the biggest start - whether or not Slovenian jobs and Slovenian workers will be left to themselves. The capital will go to areas where it will provide greater returns, greater profits, owners will also seek their interest, while Slovenian workers will lose their jobs and thus lose their chances of survival. Please indicate whether there are any criteria and under what conditions these grants or aids will be allowed to those undertakings to perform in foreign markets, in particular in the South-East markets. If you can answer these questions, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question before Mrs. Secretary of State's latest explanations? So far, I don't see any interest in it. Madam Secretary of State, would you like to explain to you the questions raised?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Perhaps first of all with regard to the question of Mr Kelemina and Mr Bayuk. The funds to be used under Article 6(1) third paragraph will be spent on the basis of a specific programme to be drawn up in accordance with the Public Finance Act, in accordance with the State Aid Act and in accordance with the State Budget Implementing Rules of the Ministry of the Economy. This program is being prepared. At the moment, it has not yet been finalized, but the resources are to be allocated in accordance with the principles I have set out, on the basis of calls for proposals and on the basis of clearly established criteria or criteria for the allocation of funds to a particular company which is to participate in the funds. It is not envisaged that the funds would be directly allocated to the banking system. However, it is not excluded that part of this programme will not engage the banking system. I can't give you a specific answer right now. As regards the question of Mr Podobnik. The Law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, hailstorming, landslides and sea-slides in 2000 is implemented to such an extent that it remains for realisation, given the legal value of $10 billion, 150 million, an additional 869 million. These funds will be provided in the reserve set out in the coming year and will be able to fully implement the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, as you have said, how well the funds for implementing the support programme for companies through the Ministry of Economic Affairs will sound, of course. However, I think that this whole article and all of it, when faced with the conduct of the State in the sale, is undervalued in the sale of its assets when everything is done to ensure that the assets come into exactly the right hands at the lowest possible price. Throw that change away. Don't blind us to good programs. I see on specific occasions that this government has no intention of doing anything for the country to be willing to sell everything at a price. Just to think about the twists and how the Bank of Koper came through the Bank of Koper into Italian hands, which limits the exercise of Slovenian national interests and economic interests. Do not preach to us here that anything will be done, transparent and fair. I don't believe it anymore. In this system, this government will not do this. I'm sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Anyone else want a word? I find no one else, so I conclude the general part of the debate. We will move to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I ask all my colleagues and colleagues who are in the lobby of the hall to come to the hall. You've received a review of the amendments tabled to the bill. It has 18 pages, and we have also received a review of the proposal of colleague Podobnik to Article 20. This proposal will be reproduced. When we get to Article 20, I'll also give him a special warning. We are therefore moving on to a decision on amendments to a separate article. First, an amendment under order number one to Article 1. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I will therefore put the amendment under order number one on page 1 of the review to the vote on Article 1. We're voting. Excuse me. I'm calling off the vote. Wait a minute. Before this, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, we discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. This is a procedural decision to be decided before the vote on the amendments to Article This proposal is put to the vote. There aren't enough colleagues and colleagues in the hall to be logical. So we need to call again those in the lobby to join us. I think there's enough of us in the hall. I will once again propose a decision to vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, warning that a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Secondly, I give this proposal a final vote. Please identify yourself by the proposal. We're voting. It's 4:36. We will adjourn the meeting 10 minutes before the third decision, so we will vote for the third time at 16.46. Until then, the session was suspended.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u50	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. This is the third time we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. In addition, I ask that we all think together about how we will proceed with the meeting. I guess we're not gonna finish it today. We could continue it next week or tomorrow. So we have two choices. This does not affect the implementation of the budget. Therefore, I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to give a little thought to these two options, whether we continue tomorrow or next week. For tomorrow, work bodies are convened to prepare for the next Parliament meeting. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We will vote on the conclusion that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. This Decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a vote. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 40 for, and five for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Thus, we can now really go to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. You've got a review ahead of you. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment, an amendment to Article 1. I'm asking again, does anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will therefore vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 37 supported them, 1 opposed him. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] We will now decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I take it we've accepted Article 1. Two amendments have been tabled to Article 2. These are the committee's amendments. Anybody want to talk? It's an amendment. Does anyone want to give an explanation on this? If the first amendment is adopted, the second amendment becomes irrelevant. I'm closing the debate. First, we decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. Comrade Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I don't know where you read it - if I understand correctly, we are deciding on an amendment to Article 2, two amendments to Article 2. I don't know why the second amendment would be irrelevant if the first one was adopted. I don't know where you got this from.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Look, the amendment under order number one says, "Article 2 is amended by saying so," because it changes completely. Please, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that we table an amendment for the third reading, so that a new 8th point is added in Article 2 and, in essence, what the Committee has adopted here. That way, I don't see any reason to stall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Is it possible to understand that the amendment, which is now under order number 2, is reclassified as an amendment to the amendment under order number 1? Maybe. Then we would decide first on the amendment under order number 2 as an amendment to the amendment under order number 1. I put this proposal to the vote. There are 52, 45 of them in favor and one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under order number one. We're voting. There were 53 Members present, and there were 44,4 against them. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment under order number 1 for a new paragraph 2.a. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I shall put the amendment under order number 1 on page 2 for a new paragraph 2.a to the vote. We're voting. There's 49, 37 in attendance, four in favor. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's how we have a new article. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4, where we have one amendment. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present; 39 were in favour, 5 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also vote on the text of Article 4 in its entirety. We're voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u55	43 are present, which means that the vote on Article 4 has not been successful. The second time we will vote on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the two amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the Government and under 2 by the Finance Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against 3. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! 45 attended. May I have your attention, please? Second, we decide on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We decide on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote! For the first time, the vote failed. Article 5 will be voted on in full for the second time. Let's vote! Let's vote next time! [[A voice from behind.]] Wait a minute! The second vote will take place immediately after Mr Pahor's device does not work, and we will repeat the second vote. If you could just wait a moment. The voting apparatus has been corrected, so we repeat the second vote on Article 5 in full. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Article 5 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and the three amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the Government and under 2 and 3 by the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all, the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 44 present. The first time the vote failed. The second time, we will vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. Since the second time the vote failed, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 5:12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u56	The third vote will also indirectly establish the presence. This is the third time we have decided on the amendment to Article 6, which is under order number 1. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. The second time, we will vote on the amendment under number 3. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either, so I am adjourning the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 10 minutes. We'll continue at 5:24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u57	For the third time, we will vote on the amendment under order number 3 to Article 6 and thus indirectly determine the presence in the Chamber. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 2. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 7 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party and of New Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A brief explanation. With the amendment to this Article, we would like in particular to ensure that the unused rights of municipalities are transferred to the municipalities on investment transfers to ensure consumption and the distribution of budgetary resources in accordance with the legislation in force. This is because procedures for the use of these funds are sometimes too short. We know the long-term procedures for the implementation of public contracts, which are united and which condition responsible and efficient spending of money. All of this is regulated by regulations which, in our view, can only be applied and implemented in such a way that we are not limited in time. For this reason, we propose to supplement Article 7 in a subsequent dictatorship. It is also about not being deprived of municipal budgets. We believe that it is only in such a way that investment programmes in municipalities can be implemented in the long term and, last but not least, that they can also be implemented in a coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The government opposes such an amendment because it estimates that there will be no reason to delay procedures and resources in the context of the timely state budget that we will face in the coming year and in 2003. The reason why we are opposed to such a transfer of funds is that we are in fact derogating from the principle of a one-year budget, which is incorporated into the Public Finance Act, although we are now coming with a two-year budget, but we are coming with a budget for each year and not with a single budget for both years. In this way, in fact, we are reducing transparency in public finances, and we are also dealing with problems in ensuring current liquidity and balance sheet problems and in the amount of deficits per financial year. As we have been alerted to the problem in the debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, a specific provision or amendment was adopted to Article 36, which provides that competent ministries with investment transfers to municipalities must provide calls for programmes by 31 January 2002 and 1 January 2003. This is how the budget actually starts with prepared programmes, and if the situation is so, then there is absolutely no reason for the implementation of the programmes not to take place.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 30. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 11. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 8 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. We are certainly strong over 50 in the Chamber, so I hope that the second vote on the amendment will be a success. We're voting. 42 Members and Members are present. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I very much ask that they meet at a meeting with the President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure until then, I shall adjourn the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, allow me to give you a message. The leaders of all the parliamentary groups agreed to conclude today's last point of the extraordinary meeting, which means that we can continue our work smoothly. The Constitutional Commission will be postponed for this reason. Therefore, I very much ask, in the light of the agreement reached by my fellow Members, that we use as rationally as possible the time ahead and necessary to complete the law on the implementation of the budget. This will be the third time we will decide on the amendment to Article 8 and thus indirectly determine the presence in the Chamber. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 41-to-1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Beg 1.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 9 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 8. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 7. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 10 and on the two amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the government and under 2 by the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 39 to 8. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 11 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 13 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against 7. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 14 and the amendment, which is proposed by the parliamentary group, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The aim of the proposed amendments is to limit the conclusions of the exaggeration of the budgets for the following years, the soft work that might be needed to align expenditure with revenue due to the changes in economic trends. We propose to replace "80%" with "50%" in the third paragraph of Article 14, which means that in 2003, if the budget of the Republic for 2004 is adopted, the direct budget of the Republic may assume commitments under investment and investment transfers that meet the conditions set out in the first paragraph of this Article. We suggest up to 50%, not up to 80%. This means that we would like all these contractual obligations, which can be entered into at the beginning of the implementation of this budget and which have an impact on a rather distant future, not to be defined at such a high level, up to 80%, because this also reduces the flexibility of this soft part of the budget and makes it somewhat more difficult to balance the expenditure side with the revenue side. Similarly, we propose in this amendment an amendment to paragraph 4 where we replace 80% with 40%, mainly for overloads for goods and services. We also agree that the purpose of the multiannual budget is to enable investments to be planned over the years and also to over-exploit budgets for investments and investment transfers or investment maintenance. We are, however, opposed to the fact that, at such a high level, overcrowding is also a matter of goods and services. We believe that by limiting this to 40%, there is once again a greater room for manoeuvre to adapt to any modified macroeconomic movement in Slovenia. This also gives the government a discretionary space to manage the expenditure side with smaller revenue inflows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 32. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 45 attended. I ask for the necessary attention to be given to the implementation of the current vote. The second time we will vote on Article 14 as a whole. Let's vote! There must be 51 of us in the hall. I think that it has been achieved, for no reason at all, without a vote against consensus, that we will continue to work normally, regardless of the decisions that individual representatives wish to make at the time of the adoption of this law, but I note that the arrangements do not actually have a particular weight. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I interrupt work for 10 minutes. This is the third time we're voting at 17.02. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed. Before we vote on Article 14 in full, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague. I don't make many calls, fewer times with a request, this time I'd like to take this opportunity and I'd like to ask you to try to stick to the deal we made half an hour ago. We agreed to try our best, whether we support the law or not, to enable us to decide on it. This is important because this would make a decision on this law. In accordance with this agreement, in the belief that we will stick to this agreement, I have moved all the Constitutional Commissions. The worst thing would be if we lost the law now and had no constitutional commission. So please try to stick to what we've agreed on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I join your wishes. Third time we'll make a procedural proposal, Dr. Bajuk, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia parliamentary group, and no matter what we agreed on, because our experience shows us that dialogue in this National Assembly on this law does not lead us anywhere, I predict, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I did not attend the College of the President of the National Assembly and I wanted to see how the vote would proceed. See, the opposition has proposed an amendment to Article 14, which each finance minister would welcome from the budget concern for the implementation of the budget for the following years. Any opposition would suggest spending through normal frameworks. We propose caution here and one responsible attitude towards public finances. This amendment, I assess, was rejected without an argument, without an explanation of why. He was rejected, I would say, according to our assessment, mainly because it is an amendment of the opposition. Otherwise, I have not heard any argument, no argument against this amendment to Article 14. We do not intend to participate in such irresponsible work in advance. That is why, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I am also predicting the obstruction of our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. This is the third time we will vote on Article 14 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 39 of us present. The third vote also failed. Since the agreement we have made has failed, an extraordinary meeting will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. [[A voice from behind.]] Wait a minute! [[A voice from behind.]] We're closing for today. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much and good night!
