ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	I ask Members and Members to occupy their seats in the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly. We will continue with the suspension of the 8th regular session, the 28th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We'll determine the presence. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence in the hall! Please press the quorum key. There are 51 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. In accordance with last night's agreement, we will continue today with our 28th suspension. PERIOD OF THE DAY, by examining the harmonisation amendments. They shall inform me that the amendments have not been tabled or have not been tabled by Members and Members in order to enable them to be decided. That means we have to break this point. Is there any other suggestion? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	I propose that we suspend the meeting of the National Assembly for an hour and a half and that the members of the Group take a look at the opinion of the Secretariat. As soon as within one hour, the harmonisation amendment will be prepared on the basis of the opinion of the secretariat and will also be delivered to the parliamentary groups. As I know that a strong mobilisation has been carried out both on our side and on the side of those who oppose the Rules of Procedure, it is right to focus on this act. This is our joint act, and it will be no shame if we take this break now and make a final decision, that is to say that the Rules of Procedure are voted on as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	The proposal for a procedural decision is that, for the sake of coordination between the parliamentary groups, the session should be suspended by one and a half hours with a view to taking note of the proposal of the coordination amendments. I think this is some final step in the long-term consideration of this proposal. I ask Members and Members to identify themselves before this procedural proposal in order to continue the meeting at 11.30 a.m. I put this proposal of a procedural nature to the vote. [[A voice from behind.]] Excuse me? There is no position of the parliamentary group on procedural decisions. I am terminating the vote because I have been confused in the meantime from the Chamber, and I will once again propose that we be defined until a procedural decision cannot be taken by the positions of the groups of Members. I am voting on this motion of a procedural nature to proceed at 11.30 a.m. 62 Members and Members are present. 43 supported them, 16 against them. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I find that the proposal of a procedural nature has been adopted. The National Assembly will continue its work at 11.30 a.m. with the adjourned 28th item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	We will continue with the 28th item of the agenda. We'll continue the session. Please take your seats. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! 49 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may proceed with the decision. We are at the 28th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Until this moment, we have not received any additional amendments. I propose that before the end of this morning's session, the State Assembly, when these amendments would also be given the House of Representatives and Members, for example, decide at 12.45 a.m. And now we're going to continue with the next item on the agenda, that's [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] Just a minute! Easy. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! May I interrupt? Please, if you will allow me to chair the session of the Amendments are not put into the procedure and about them this moment the National Assembly cannot but please I think that with some measure of tolerance we can also deal with this challenge. [[...]] [[...]] My proposal, therefore, is that we continue when the amendments are tabled and the National Assembly can decide on this and now we will move on to the next item in the agenda. Do you have a procedural proposal? My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the procedural proposal I will make, I will first read a piece of the magnetogram from yesterday's session: "Vice-President Irma Pavlinič Krebs: Thank you very much. Since the rules of procedure are inconsistent, I interrupt this agenda item to prepare the harmonisation amendments and move on to... and report to the secretariat. When the harmonisation amendment and the secretariat report on coordination and non-compliance are prepared... Mr. Anderlich, please. Mr Anderlich, as far as the candidates are concerned, we need 45 minutes." Another time. Yesterday, a session of Kozak, which represents the informal second home of the European Parliament, was opened, where the interests of the national parliaments of the European Union and the candidates unite. In this national assembly we always give priority to European legislation, we are full of the words of the European Union. There has never been a representative of Slovenia in Kozak until today. The President of the European Affairs Commission, Mr Aloise Peterle, and Vice-President, are missing - we are missing - because yesterday's procedural proposal, because we knew that everything would not be ready, was not adopted in this assembly because we believed - sorry, this is the truth! - lies that everything will be ready in 45 minutes. This moment is over 21 hours! If the European Union is so important for the state of Slovenia, it is not so insignificant that the two representatives, whatever they are, of these countries, are not present at the Cossack meeting because of this matter. However, the procedural proposal that I will draw up is that we should give only 30 minutes of rest and request that yesterday's decision of this National Assembly continue the 28th item, the Rules of Procedure. For imagine if this were not the rules of procedure, that this would be a law that everyone in Slovenia would depend on, how the Slovenians would react if we were to change and shift from hour to hour some conclusions! The Rules of Procedure are as important as anything else. The procedural proposal is to continue this agenda item after 30 minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	You have heard the procedural proposal, colleagues and colleagues. I'll put him to the vote. However, once again before the vote, I would like to say, not only in this case, there will be things on which we will have different views. I think they can only be reconciled to some extent if there is some tolerance here. I suggest that this is some rule that we adhere to, even though it is not in the rules of procedure. However, I am voting on a procedural proposal from my colleague Barovic. We're voting. 71 of us were present, 59 supported by this proposal, and 9 voted against it. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will continue the meeting in half an hour, which will be at 12.15 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	I invite colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We will continue with the cut-off of the agenda, which is the 28th item of the agenda. Before I begin, let me inform you that the harmonisation amendments have been tabled to reproduce. I don't know if they're already on the bench. To the best of the technical services of the National Assembly reproduce the amendments tabled Now, of course, we will first determine the presence in the Chamber, then we will agree on the way forward of the 28th point and finally also the decision on this. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! There are 66 Members and Members present in the Chamber. That's how the National Assembly is concluded and it can decide. As it is said, the technical services are working very hard for Members and Members to receive as soon as possible the preliminary harmonisation amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is now under third reading. I believe that Members and Members want to take the necessary time to look at the harmonisation amendments, so now it would be good to discuss when this could finally be decided. I ask, would anyone object to us deciding on this point immediately after lunch?It is said that by then it is time to look at the harmonisation amendments. Or should we take another break now? In a minute, the harmonisation amendments will be on the bench. I'm asking for some patience. To the best of their ability, the technical services are working to get the amendments on the bench. We have two options. Either we decide to make that decision at 2.30 p.m. or we give it a break. I propose that we proceed with the 29th item and that at 2.30 p.m. today the National Assembly decide. This will give Members and Members enough time to get acquainted with the material and then we can make decisions. Would anyone object to such a proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Then I propose that at 2.30 p.m., immediately at the beginning of the afternoon work, the National Assembly decide on the harmonisation amendments. So I suggest we move on to the 23rd item of the agenda. I invite government representatives to join us. I ask for peace in the hall. We're moving to 23. It's the third draft of the bookstore law. Government representatives are already with us in the big debate room. Let me remind you that the draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration of the assembly. Does the representative of the government, the secretary of state, want a word? [[He doesn't want a word.]] The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Does the president want a word? Please, rapporteur, you have the floor. But everyone else, I'm asking for your attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	Your Honor! The mother body addressed the proposal for a third reading library law at its 7th regular session and devoted several hours to this issue. We have considered the amendments tabled and forwarded them to the National Assembly. We also added some of our amendments. The problems arise in Chapters 5 and 6, which discuss the control of general libraries, in the articles defining inspection or professional supervision. The professional supervision and suspension of the appointment of the relevant authority to carry out this control shall also remain indemnity. This problem was not solved either at first or second reading. However, since the relevant articles have not been completed in the second reading, this is from 61 out of 63, this problem will have to be addressed in its entirety. Therefore, if the National Assembly supports all the proposed amendments proposed or supported by the Committee, it will be necessary to bring the Library Act into line with the harmonisation amendments before the final adoption of the law, which the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs also reminds us of. Let me get this. The Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a third-reading library law, together with the amendments tabled by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. Please have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Any other parliamentary group want a word then? Yes, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Excuse me? You have the floor, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone! The conclusion of the examination and adoption of this proposal of the law are intended to be substantially amended, and we can also say improved conditions for the work of most libraries, which would certainly achieve the objectives of the law to a large extent. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the solutions that I believe will present such difficulties in fulfilling the mission of libraries in the institutions themselves, and even more in the municipalities in carrying out their duties. At the first reading of the draft law, the National Assembly has already supported all the complementary proposals of our parliamentary group and has thus instructed the proposer to justify and evaluate certain key solutions. However, to date, the latter has not submitted any data, analyses and projections, except for a review of the achievement of the standards and a review of the investments made by the municipalities. Regrettably, however, the missing data are crucial for the production of projections of financial and other obligations of individual institutions and, in particular, their founders. An already vague view of the data provided shows that more than 60% of the general libraries do not meet current standards and that extremely large resources will be needed to achieve human resources, spatial, library and other standards. The law of this regulation increases by three-year averages. Most municipalities will not be able to follow the requirements of the law, in particular the municipalities in which the financial compensation represents an important budgetary revenue. These congregations tend to have major development problems and problems in other areas, perhaps even greater and more fatal than in libraries. In these municipalities there are often more important investments in road, water network or other projects than in a beautiful, spacious library or a sufficient number of professional workers. At the second hearing in May of this year, priority-imposed solutions were voted, in fact, forcing municipalities to invest in libraries independently of other original obligations and the needs of municipalities. At the same time, the applicant does not think that the State would provide additional resources to achieve a uniform library standard, as the differences between areas are clearly very large. I think it would make sense to ask the congregations only as much as they can. The provisions of this law will require more from some municipalities than they can and will be able to ensure, which will certainly undermine the implementation of the content and areas of work resulting from the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. I think it is very controversial to adopt a law that does not have properly processed financial implications. The special chapter, however, represents the appointment of the director of the library. The existing legislation provides for two options: the Law on Institutions in Article 32 provides that the Director shall be appointed and dismissed by the Founder if it is not by law or act of the Founder; the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture in Article 41 provides that the Director shall be appointed by the Founder on the basis of the invitation to tender and by the previous opinion of the Board of the Institution. Both laws thus play an important or crucial role for the founder. The library, however, is under this law, which we are likely to adopt, a public interest institution which is already assigned the role of the public service in Article 1. The draft library law, which provides all the resources for the operation of libraries, completely excludes and transfers the tasks and tasks of appointing the director to the general library. Self-governance or some form of "insidership" is reintroduced as at some point one third of the employees, depending on the number of employees, will choose the director. This will also allow for the permanent mandates of directors and thus the full privatisation of the public interest, the management of the institution, employment and other functions, irrespective of the decisions taken by the municipal councils and the available resources. In addition, it is interesting that the appointment of the director of the library is the only statutory task of the Council of the Institute. He does not have others, since they are all entrusted exclusively to the founder and specifically to the congregations. Our parliamentary group has drafted an amendment proposing that the directors be appointed as founders, because we consider it, or it is unacceptable, that, with the great help of the reforms carried out, local self-government should be declared insolvent municipalities. This law also includes those laws adopted in this mandate which have a grave impact on the jurisdiction of the municipalities, in particular the right to allocate funds and to assume responsibility for the work of local institutions. This also imposes sole obligations on municipalities without ensuring the possibility of decision-making and adequate financial resources. I hope that the National Assembly, when considering and adopting the financial plan for the following budgetary periods and when considering the planned changes in the field of local self-government, will be able to properly assess the burdens already and to be imposed on the shoulders of the municipalities. If the municipalities had the right means, there would be too many discussions, and especially so violent legislation would not be necessary. And there's one thing that's clear. The new NUK will not be for quite some time, since the profession, including the national constituency, has been too small for him. All have avoided concrete proposals, although it is clear that a number of NUK conditions are not met. There are no obligations imposed on the government, no criteria, no deadlines. In short, all is left to time and interpretation. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that the law is not in line with the applicable legislation in the field of local self-government or culture and will bring considerable problems to the local area. That's why we probably won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Comrade Celigoj. Please, you have the floor. Does any of the other members of the group then wish to present their position? [[He does.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. The DeSUS Group has closely followed the consideration of the Library Act and considers that the principles of library activity, which must include library activity as an open public activity in our country, are sufficiently well processed through individual articles. We note that the present law also ensures a solid organisation of library activities. Both in basic forms and in upgrades and connections. It also ensures professionalism in the business, strengthening its mission among all the structures of citizens. With the emphasis on the principle of information reporting, however, the law is also foreshadowed in the future. Before us is the time of the information society, the Internet, computer techniques, websites that will also present new challenges in librarianism. And it doesn't seem to be lagging behind. Maybe a thought or two. In the section on public financing of libraries, where funding sources are listed, it would in the long term suggest a selective approach to charging payments for services, so-called rentals, which would take into account the most financially vulnerable categories of the population, but the most particularly desirable population, such as school youth, students, students, students, probably also the pension population. In the chapters on the supervision of the works of libraries or in the chapters on the elimination of library material, which libraries are obliged to carry out in accordance with specific professional instructions, which are likely to be contained in sub-laws, we do not have assurance that violent acts against books will not take place. It may also be politically or subjectively conditioned. I have a number of negative experiences myself, when school bookshelves were relentlessly emptied a few years ago, and countless books ran into waste. We all know how hard it is to get a new book on the bookcase and how little it takes to disappear from it with its mission. If the library does not provide security for every book on the bookcase, it is a bad picture for the institution, for the laws and for the society in which the library works. Of course, we want the best passenger in the new law, so our parliamentary group will support the conclusions of the Committee on Culture, Education and Youth, including in the part where the section on inspection or professional supervision needs to be added to the relevant chapters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. A colleague of Montenegro will present the views of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats and, for her, a colleague of Tisovic. Colleague Majnik then for her colleague Tisovic. Please, you have the floor, colleague nigger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! The United Social Democrats' Group has also devoted considerable time to the Librarianism Act and has debated and debated this law. All the findings made by the United Nations Group of Socialists in previous cases, as stated in the first reading and second reading, have somehow been indicated and tried to be reproduced through the examinations of the Committee on Culture, Sport and Research, have somehow been taken into account in all the constraints that have been put forward in the debates. Of course, law as a universal norm cannot ideally resolve the situation of one activity and profession in general in the country, as well as universally. We expect this to be the case with the proposed amendments of the Government and the proposed amendments of the Committee on Culture to be considered and the basis for the resolution of all other sub-legislative acts adopted as a result of the adoption of the Library Act. In particular, the United List of Social Democrats expects the Ministry of Culture to adopt standards and regulations in a short time, in order to lay down other conditions for the functioning of libraries and to begin working, in the same way, to enact other sub-legislative acts which are very important for the further development of the profession, in particular those relating to the IT of work and to the public part of the service as such. The law, unfortunately, could not define and definitively resolve the basic dilemma of financing libraries, because it is bound by the law on the financing of local communities, because, as you know, the law on local communities and the financing of local communities is the fundamental law which establishes and regulates in one way a pulse of work and financing of libraries. We hope that the United Nations Group of Social Democrats hopes that the government, together with the National Assembly, will be able to produce this law in its amended form, in order to allow for the smooth work of libraries and all other public institutions financed by municipalities or local communities. The law defines public interest and public service well enough. During the debate and a very important participation of members of the Committee on Culture, the law in some way also brought new amendments in the field of the appointment of directors and this is a big step. I hope that the National Assembly will confirm this amendment of the Committee and that it will also help this law in some way to allow a wide range of activities, which is very important for the complete Slovenian culture and the public in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Collegiate Tisovic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, and then colleague Majnik, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All present, well greeted! The proposal for a law on librarianism has now come into third treatment without reasoned additions and proposals. That is why, unfortunately, I must conclude that the one proposed would cause almost more problems than I would solve them. The old law is also not without faults, among which the greatest obvious is that it is outdated. Nevertheless, it would have been easier to date the old law in the functioning of Slovenian librarianism for some time than it was in the third reading. Therefore, Members of New Slovenia are unlikely to be able to support this law. The most serious shortcomings that cannot be remedied at all during the third reading are, in particular, the irregular relations between libraries or their units and local communities. In the form presented, the law could significantly burden the resources of the local community without the local community being able to influence the scope of those obligations. The larger congregations will virtually be able to set up their own library unit in a small congregation and transfer funding obligations to it. With limited resources, particularly small municipalities, such an unexpected expenditure could endanger their business. In any event, the law should include a procedure of communication between the municipalities, if you do not take into account the opposition's well-founded supplements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Tisovic. Colleague Majnik, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Then any of the other members of the group would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will move on to the performances of the Members. You have the floor, please, colleague Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The LDS Group will support the Librarianship Act in the third reading, together with almost all the amendments supported or proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Many amendments have also been tabled for the third reading, with a total of 45 for a marriage of 75 members. Maybe it's a guarantee that when it's adopted, the marriage will be good. By adopting the law, we will solve a number of problems and open issues that have plagued libraries in Slovenia and even the most general libraries. In particular, we point out an article dealing with users' rights to free basic services; further articles setting out the obligations and duties of municipalities to provide library activities for their citizens. By means of this special law, we very clearly break down the original jurisdiction of the municipalities, which they have under the law on local self-government. We also specify the duties and shares of municipalities in co-financing general libraries. Thus far, in too many municipalities in Slovenia, this original jurisdiction has been only a right, but not a duty. With the adoption of the law, libraries will finally be able to obtain their founding acts, some of which have been awaiting for 10 years. We also introduce a uniform way of appointing and releasing directors and directors of libraries. This issue has also been dealt with differently in Slovenia so far. In the law we set up a backbone of general libraries with central district libraries, define general libraries in national mixed and border areas, expose schools, higher education and university libraries, pay particular attention to the national library and establish it, as well as library information services. Much attention is paid by the law to the library public service and public funding and supervision. The marriage is also development-oriented and is not just a picture of the existing situation. I hereby base this on the indication of all those articles which define the adoption of implementing rules and instructions which must be adopted within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. The development of libraries will be guided by expert recommendations to be adopted by the National Council for Library Activities and also established by this law, development planning will be determined by the regulations to be adopted by the Minister, and three-year development plans will also be prepared by libraries in agreement with their founders. We therefore propose to support and adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Majnik. In doing so, we have exhausted the performances of representatives of the parliamentary groups. Nobody signed up for the debate. Anything you perform now, I limit it to 5 minutes in accordance with the rules of procedure. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. My colleagues and colleagues are invited to join us in the hall. You have before you a review of the amendments to the bill of 25.9 this year. I propose that we also decide in accordance with this review. First, I open the debate on the amendment to Article 10. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I propose an amendment to Article 10 to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 52 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] Thus, the amendment to Article 10 has been adopted. I am opening the debate on the two amendments tabled under Article 11. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 63 Members present in the Chamber. There were 60 of them in favor, 1 against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] The first amendment or amendment under order number 1 to 11 has been adopted. I'm opening an amendment debate under order number two. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. 58 were in favour, 1 opposed it. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has received the necessary support and has been accepted. We have three amendments tabled by Article 17. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. If this amendment is adopted, amendments 2 and 3 are irrelevant. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a decision. There are 65 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 21 supported them, 43 did not. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. 58 for, two for. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has received the necessary support. We also decide on the amendment under order number 3. I'm putting it to a vote. Let's vote! There are 65 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 53 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 3 has received the necessary support. A single amendment has been tabled at Article 19. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! 69 is a Member and Members of the Chamber. There were 30 in favor and 36 in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. One amendment is tabled at Article 21. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put an amendment to the vote. Let's vote! There are 67 Members and Members present. There were 61 for, no one against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have two amendments to Article 22. Anybody want a word about them? If an amendment under number 1 is adopted, the amendment under number 2 shall be immaterial. The debate is closed. I shall put the amendment under order number one to the vote. Let's vote! 66 Members and Members were present, 47 supported by the proposal, 18 opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the amendment under order number one has been adopted, so the amendment under order number two is irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendments to Article 25. Two of them are in. Anybody want a word about them? Comrade Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I might repeat what I was trying to explain in the second reading and I was satisfied that a solution like that was adopted at the time, if you know I'm talking about amendment number two. The construction of the district library is under way in Murska Sobota, which was signed by all 26 municipalities and co-financed by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. This project programme also covers the field of hungarianism, which has been covered by this library for decades. Works are slowing down slightly due to the slowing down of community co-financing. If this amendment were adopted, some of us also have appeals from individual municipalities on our benches or in our offices’ drawers, there is a high likelihood or danger that the municipalities will no longer co-finance a project that runs or claims that they are no longer forced to co-finance the project. This means that these libraries will be closed even in construction and equipment. The question is, given the Ministry's vague views on how the state will behave in this case, if this happens or if there is another problem, which may be very sensitive, but I must say it. You also have, some probably also messages from Hungarian nationalities in the area of Gorička, where three congregations are affected that report that there is no way to allow the area of hungarianism from this library to Lendava. This amendment speaks of this if we are specific. Indeed, there are certain differences between members of the nation and the bitter part of it somehow operates in its own way because of the dissatisfaction it expresses. If this amendment had been adopted, this dissatisfaction would have increased to the extent that it did not wish to. There may be some other reasons against the adoption of this amendment, but I think that's enough and I would ask you not to support the amendment under number two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Juban. A colleague of Battelli and colleague Pozsonec applied for the floor. Comrade Battelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to warn you about the amendment under order number two at a certain inaccuracies in the dictatorship. In fact, our regime, including constitutional, knows national mixed areas, not areas, and there are no ethnic minorities in Slovenia, there are national communities. Therefore, I ask that this be taken into account editorially, because otherwise there would be major misunderstandings and disagreements in legal terminology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	I ask the secretariat to take this comment into account. My colleague Pozsonec, you have the floor and then my colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment has been dealt with many times and for a long time, in many ways. This amendment has no intention of what Mr Juban was talking about. The hardest part is that he also knows that he has no intention and no choice. This amendment has only this objective of helping to realize the national rights established by the Constitution and also by the law on national communities, namely - I will not read these articles now, because I think that you all know about them - is that we are subject to our development, that we are independent in our development and that we have the duty and right to defend language and culture. The amendment allows you to know what you know very well, only that we organize ourselves in a bilingual area in library life, and Murska Sobota is 30 kilometers away from the bilingual area. So let's organize a library life to organize the way we want to invite that poet we want to have a connection with those libraries in Hungary that we want to have a slightly more difficult book choice with, but we also have our own books, so it's not that we don't have anything. I don't know, the fact that Slovenia should now deduct fat money for the library of Lenda is not true. In the library of Lendava there are professionals who have ended up in Slovenia, so it is not a time bomb, as has already been said many times. And the fact that we have the right to take care of the household in the bilingual area. The Mursopho library won't lose a tolar for that. They're going to build that palace, I know there's going to be a study library, so there's going to be hungarianism there too. And no one intends to take a single sheet, no newspaper, no book to Lendava, as it has been said that we are moving hungaristics to Lendava - is not true. As for the village of Goričkem, they expressed the desire that the book bus should come to them from Murska Sobota, as it has been so far. I don't think there's any reason not to. Don't worry, there won't be any disagreement over this. They're still, like, at that point, like, sometimes they sell things like that, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Yours. [[...]] They know I don't do that. What I have proposed with a calm soul and with a clear conscience, I have also proposed before the bitter Hungarians. I think you can do more together. But the Lendu library must also have some autonomy, some autonomy about this thing that she was talking about. They asked me who I agreed to support this amendment. No one. Nor did I ask those who are sitting next to me in the third reading, because I believe that there is so much honesty that Members vote in the letters of the laws and in the letters of the Constitution. Then there's no need to be afraid for the amendment. I haven't asked anyone, but I'll be very happy with all the support.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Comrades Sok and Moge have been reported. It's almost 1:00. Would you like, colleague Sok, a word before that? Can I set a break, or do you want the word? I'm taking a break because it's like 1:00. We continue at 2.30 p.m. by deciding on the coordination amendments and then continue with the library law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	Dear Members and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We're moving on to Continuum 28. PARAGRAPH OF THE DAY, this is for the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll be able to determine the presence first, so please press the "quorum" button. There are 74 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I also inform you that he is further excused for the continuation of the 8th meeting on 4.10.2001 by Franz Kangler. On the basis of the Secretariat's conclusion on legislation and legal matters that, due to the amendments adopted, there has been a breach of mutual compliance with the Rules of Procedure, the applicants have tabled the harmonisation amendments you have on your hands and carry the date 4.10.2001. Would you like a representative of the motions? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[Not at all.]] For notification only: there is no discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendments. So we're moving on to a decision You want to explain your vote, Mr. Sok? [[...]] Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	Madam President, I thank you for giving me your word, but I think there is an opportunity to explain the vote under the existing Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	I'm sorry, Mr Sok, I said we're moving on to a decision, and I said, "Here's the explanation for the vote."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. So if you really let me talk, then I have to say that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	Mr Sok, let me just finish our decision on the amendment to Article 21, and, please, you have an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I must say that I cannot vote for the amendment to Article 21, and I think it is a grave exploitation of the existing Rules of Procedure. What we have before us is not a harmonisation amendment, but it is an amendment that actually intervenes or returns what we have already rejected twice in this House. Such harsh interference and misappropriation of applicants seems unacceptable to me. For this reason, I cannot vote for such a harmonisation amendment because it is not a harmonisation amendment. This amendment essentially summarises Article 23, which we have talked about a lot, both in second reading and in third reading, and now you are returning this with the harmonisation amendment, and I would like to hear the opinion of the secretariat clearly say whether this is really about the harmonisation amendment. Personally, I say that this is not a harmonisation amendment, but the content of what we have already rejected is once again summarised in this amendment. I think that, Madam President, you too could see that this is not a harmonisation amendment. I find such deception and deception and deception unacceptable to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much. As President, I do not have this authority, nor did the secretariat, when invited, give its opinion. We are now in the decision-making phase and Members can only explain their vote. Anybody else want some? Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am here on my behalf and on behalf of the Group of Members, and on behalf of the democratic public, fully agree with Mr Sok. What we now have at the table is purely ordinary deception and ignorant behaviour of the ruling coalition to the opposition. We were talking about the harmonisation amendment and here we have, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven amendments. If it isn't just ordinary "pig" and "pig in the face" to the National Assembly, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Mr. Jelinčič, I ask you to choose words that will not be offensive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	Madam Vice-President, I don't know what's more offensive than this document we got on the table. We cannot imagine a more offensive document and what is no longer possible in any totalitarian countries. In Slovenia, however, this is increasingly possible. Is it true that some people will lead the Slovenian nation and the Slovenian society and the Slovenian country into a bright future that will end with the burial of the country? The burial of democracy is at the beginning, here we are. First the rules of procedure, then the constitution, and then what happens to us? Then launch public shootings, because you probably want them, a lot of them here in the National Assembly, even though I don't know what kind of Democrat and Purgatory they are doing. I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed. I am ashamed, on behalf of the LDS, on behalf of the ZLSD, on behalf of the SLS + SKD Group of Members, not to mention DeSUS, who should already have some sense in his head because of his venerable age. It's a damn sad thing to get all of this right here on the table with a quiet explanation, if that's what the harmonisation amendment is now. If this is how we're going to work where democracy is, please. Why did we decide in the 1990s, in the early 1990s, that we would go our own way, that we would follow the path of democracy that you now push and cut down on everyone else? Please, what perfidious things did you put back in? All that didn't go through, what the National Assembly refused, you pushed back in on this paper, and of course you reconciled from pulling all the people out of I don't know where from to get most of it here and to go all the way through. I mean, that's, I don't know what to say. I don't know what to say, embarrassing, embarrassing to those who put it together. And I don't understand that under this there are LDS signed gentlemen, I also understand the combined list and I understand Desus because they don't know what it is. [[...]] But I do not understand Mr Podobnik, because he did have constructive suggestions and said that he could not participate in such matters. And now he's given his signature. Are we going to buy Members again? This was last known if we let Slovenia down in Milosevic Yugoslavia. Members were bought there, but now this is being passed on to Slovenia. It's like we haven't taken a few steps forward and yet we've come closer to Europe. Does anyone want us to go back to the Balkans again? Awful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Even in the Social Democratic Party, in the first place, we express our resentment that we had to wait one day for this paper, that is to say the harmonisation amendments, despite the promise that they would be ready within 45 minutes. I think that this is unacceptable, especially from this light, that somehow a lot of people are making fun of our time and also from our role in Slovenia when we represent Slovenia around the world. A lot of people had to cancel their trip. I don't think that's right. It's not right. Such extortion of decisions is not an honor to this national assembly. That's the fourth reading today. Fourth reading is not anywhere, no rules of procedure have been defined. Once again, we bring a decision to the table, which has already fallen twice in this national assembly. That's unacceptable. Under the guise of the harmonisation amendments, solutions that have been rejected twice shall be imposed. These are the solutions to be decided by as many votes as their parliamentary groups at the College of Heads of the Group. This idea was burned three times or twice. Here's a third person through the harmonisation amendment "forces" inside. This is not the subject of the harmonisation amendment. And if the drafters of this amendment were correct, they wouldn't drag that idea back in because it's already fallen twice. That's what everyone knows, and it's the third time this one and the same idea came up here again. If the proposed amendments were correct, they would also bring in a college and a college composition and a way of deciding colleges, as was represented by the majority in the course of the discussion. We are also convinced in the Social Democratic Party that these harmonisation amendments are contrary to the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that the subject of the harmonisation amendments is only the part to which the Secretariat draws attention. The secretariat for legislation did not point to Article 100 anywhere. This is where paragraph 100 is corrected. This is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We strongly protest such abuse of our rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The subject of the harmonisation amendment could not and should not be that the College meetings are closed to the public again. It wasn't an object. And now, of course, the coordinators did this in a descriptive way. Why are we so negative that we're afraid to open public meetings? That's just supposed to be the case. The College shall decide that the meetings shall be closed to the public. The College shall not decide that the meetings shall be open to the public. That's what they say. The college will always start closed to the public. Why? Why this fear? Why are you pessimistic? All of this co-ordination "spies" is a kind of alignment in a descriptive manner according to the previous elements, which, of course, have fallen out with the amendments. Now we've only turned this content into a descriptive form and turned it back. And you're still insisting on a closed session. Okay. I'll decide on my own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please. Then Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Before we went on, I went around and around this house and I didn't meet anywhere above the door written by Mercator, Maximarket, Shower or anything like that. But when I got here, I felt this commercial spirit so obvious that I couldn't find the right words. But let's leave the store for now. We're talking about abuse first. That's never been the case before, the so-called harmonisation amendment, which I don't think it is. He's at work, but he's not at work. Here you have cleaned up five years of your mistakes and what didn't go on in five years will go on in five minutes. Without discussion, because such an unfortunate rule of procedure is written that only through the Institute of Voice Explanation can anything be said. We can't even ask why there is such a "pele-mele" in this opinion of the secretariat. After all, he tells us in his own way, or he tells us honestly, that they also gave us what turned out to be the third reading. The errors of a procedure are also resolved earlier. This is not the subject of the harmonisation amendment, ladies and gentlemen. It can't be. First, we need to get a business commission and see if it deserves the harmonisation amendment mark at all. And now you're going back roller-skating without a discussion of "bumf" forward. Excuse me for speaking a little bit of pasture. And we're gonna get a headache from all of this. I see two criteria. Once again, it comes from a first-decisive decision, as in the case of an amendment to Article 12, and it applies to what we have decided at Article 12, and as a result it falls to the next one, 25 or any one. However, when it comes to the 23rd amendment, he is not mentioned at all that he has fallen, but what was adopted after this amendment. Once on the left, once on the right. No criteria, ladies and gentlemen. Our group or I, because I can speak for myself, would therefore forget all democratic principles and values if I could support such a thing. I wouldn't want to go any further. Allow me, because that's the only way to talk. See, this remarkable matter, which will be sold as efficiency before the European Union, is the conclusion of the college if there are two or if there are those who represent the majority of Parliament. All we need is another strong countrymaker who out of pure love for Slovenia will cross into the LDS or the United List and will be two kimalas and decide everything, others may not get the mail, the college will quickly convene because the needs of the state will be such and so on. And they'll be two without a president who doesn't have a vote, even though he's a member of the College, deciding what they think. For now they need three more, and then there'll be two of them, both of them. Look. So, I'm really in trouble for once, and you know I'm not having a hard time talking, but I don't know what to say about this, because it's clean, I'd say, it's not even horse trade anymore. Now some nearby public or the right to the public is being sold for some completely different categories so that one party is attracted to one another. If you go like this, ladies and gentlemen, I bet you that this will lead to great problems, because it will be very difficult to do business. Of course I'm against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues. I will explain my vote to vote in favour of this Rules of Procedure by supplementing the harmonisation amendment. In our Group of Members and myself, I personally believe that this Rules of Procedure have been drawn up for a long time because shortcomings have been noted so far in the current Rules of Procedure. It is not acceptable for our fellow Member to have experienced 32 replicas. We have wasted our time, we have lost our energy, and we have defamed our mission and we have demeaned ourselves, so to speak, the reputation of the national assembly of all Members and Members elected by the citizens. We believe that, with an additional proposal for an additional decision, there is still a lot more possible - once we have received within a year from the Commission, how this rules of procedure are implemented - to be amended. I am not saying that this Rules of Procedure are the best that could be done. However, those professional colleagues who have done this and on us politicians, it is up to us to decide whether we want to be more concrete, more efficient, with less time-consuming, more useful to work for the benefit of all citizens, even because we still have major problems on our way to the European Union. Those of us who were already in the previous mandate have gained some experience, including on trips and on friendly visits from other parliaments, when we asked for their experiences. I believe that in this Rules of Procedure a number of useful lessons have been drawn from the experience that other parliaments have experienced and have experienced and experienced in their long-standing parliamentary democracy. I think it is right to conclude this debate, to adopt this Rules of Procedure and to start working more effectively, more rationally, for the benefit of all citizens, not just voters. It is true that in this Rules of Procedure it is possible for the electorate to give a political option or a party in particular that mandate which belongs to it, in view of the confidence of that round of voters who have their relationship and their confidence in the political agenda of that party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Potč has an explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. By explaining my vote, I will try to explain the content of this amendment and why I will define myself to support it. Coordination or harmonisation of the amendment is necessary when, due to the decisions taken in the third reading, the text of the adopted act becomes inconsistent in order to make it impossible to implement it because it would not be known which of the provisions are those in force. With regard to the decision-making method of the College of the National Assembly, we have received the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs that there are no provisions in Articles 21 to 24 on the College of the National Assembly on how the College decides. At the same time, we have received a warning that we have adopted four articles in the fourth reading that discuss the different ways of determining or adopting solutions or acts related to the functioning of the National Assembly. We have been informed that Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure, in which the decision is once again included in different ways, or the determination or adoption of a decision, or anything else, in the College; and a warning if we do not define a decision on how the College decides that the Rules of Procedure will not be harmonised. It is my understanding that we have had to simplify the choice of whether to supplement one article of the Rules of Procedure and to tell how the College decides, whether to amend or supplement 22 articles of the Rules of Procedure, and in each of these articles we write, in one way or another, how the College decides, because otherwise it cannot decide in any way, even by consultation, not even on the basis of the opinion of the President of the National Assembly, and things are completely unclear. I myself agreed with the joint agreement to define ourselves as one city, to complement Article 21. I would like to point out to my colleagues that the content of the proposed decisions is not fully in line with what has been the content of the present Article 23, which has not been adopted. I am not saying that the differences are very large, but they are not insignificant. First time. An important difference is that it is determined that the decision requires the decision of representatives of the parliamentary groups representing more than half of all Members. They're not two according to the current structure. According to the current structure, these are at least three. Before that, it was more than against and a decision could also be taken by the opinion of one representative or one head of the delegation. This difference is not so insignificant. Another time. I think it is important that, as has been pointed out several times in the debate, in addition, the position and role of the President of the National Assembly in the decision-making process is defined. This role is highlighted and I think that this is a novelty, based on the debate so far and on the fact that different decisions must be taken in the national assembly. These are the reasons why it is right for the harmonisation amendment to be adopted. It is very difficult to talk about why it was or was not so far the majority, but it is very difficult because most of it was for the decision-making process to be defined in the college. But it is true that the need for a qualified 2/3 majority was not for this because it was a desire to find some other solutions that we were trying to find now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'll explain my voice briefly. As I will also vote in favour of this harmonisation amendment, [[The voices from the hall.]] Please don't disturb me, for these harmonisation amendments, even though I will say in plural, even so that Mr. Jelinčič won't jump into my words in the future, that he won't insult me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	Mr. Jelinčič, please don't disturb Mr. Pohorc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	I don't want to be insulted or attacked.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Mr. Jelinčič, next time I warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	I hope you know him better.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	Yeah, that's the fourth time. Please don't disturb Mr. Pohorc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	Mr. Pohorec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	In this democracy, I have also accompanied the work of this National Assembly, and I also know the thoughts and opinions of the people who assess us, even in terms of what we will change with this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I will certainly not support these proposals of the harmonisation amendments, nor will I fully support the proposal of the Rules of Procedure. In a way, introducing party discipline in a college vote that has already fallen twice, which you are trying to get through the back door, I find extremely inappropriate and undemocratic. At least after the constitution, the Member should be disconnected from any instructions, and this does not seem right to me with this proposal. Therefore, I believe that this provision is even somewhat questionable in terms of constitutionality. I certainly will not support such a proposal. I hope that the other Members of the Youth Party will not do so as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 21. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 54 votes to 29. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Article 21 has not been adopted. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We are moving on to the coordination decision. Please be at peace in the hall. [[...]] We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 25. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 27. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 100. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	Madam Vice-President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request a 15-minute recess before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes. We'll resume at 15.20.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We're moving on. Since we will first be able to determine the presence, I respectfully ask for your attention. We're picking up the presence! There are 74 Members and Members present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. I'm asking the leaders of the Members [[...]] [[He doesn't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 100. Explanation of voice. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I would like once again to make explicit reference to the provisions of our Rules of Procedure adopted by this Assembly and to the interpretation of Rule 198, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, which states that, in the case of substantive non-compliance, the proposal for harmonisation amendments shall decide on the content of the proposal, but such amendments may contain only proposals to remedy those inconsistencies to which the Secretariat has expressly pointed out. The article we are now deciding on is neither warned nor stated in the opinion of the Secretariat. Therefore, it seems to me that it is irrelevant to decide on this, because it is a grave violation of the rules of procedure in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. If you're proposing Mr. Anderlich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	There is no problem at all, but the secretariat has pointed out that the 5th or 6th issue is important, of course also in previous discussions and opinions. I will remove this amendment, if you think it's a problem. That would be hygienic in terms of the rules of procedure, Mr Vizjak. But if you don't want it and you don't see it as an editorial, then that's your problem. I'm withdrawing him on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry. The Rules of Procedure are clear here, at this stage we have only the opportunity to explain our voice. Mr. Sok, an explanation of the voice. Here you go. Did you withdraw the amendment? Thank you very much. The harmonisation amendment to Article 100 has been withdrawn by the applicants, so we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to the Request for Peace in the Chamber! [[...]] We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 106. Explanation of voice. Procedural proposal, Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	Dear Vice President! As one of the signatories to the harmonisation amendments, I note that I have not agreed to withdraw the harmonisation amendment to Article 100.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	The rule in force in the National Assembly is that all those who have tabled the amendment represent the proposer. My assessment was clearly premature that, according to Mr Anderlich's proposal, the matter was harmonised. Therefore, in view of Mr Podobnik's message, which is one of the applicants, it can certainly be concluded that the withdrawal should not take place. We therefore decide on the amendment to Article 100. Mr Bayuk has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Madam President, obviously, according to our interpretation, this is a grave violation of the current rules of procedure again. Therefore, I demand that our law enforcement service be immediately defined on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Dear Madam Vice President, the House of Respect! The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs is not authorised in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the determination of business matters during the meeting, not outside the meeting - the committee responsible for the Rules of Procedure and the presiding committee at the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I interrupt the meeting for ten minutes to check what could be arranged with regard to the amendment to Article 100. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	Dear Members, honourable Members. Let's get back to work. Since we will determine the presence, please confirm your presence by pressing on the quorum key. We're picking up the presence! There are 75 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Allow me to give you an explanation of the amendment to Article 100. Before there was an explanation of the vote that had changed into something else, we were at the amendment to Article 100 in accordance with Rule 193 of the Rules of Procedure at the decision-making stage. The decision-making phase begins when we move to decision-making, then explanations of vote and only vote. Both of these stages are called decision-making. Article 193 states that the amendment may be withdrawn or amended until the beginning of the vote on the amendments to the article to which the amendment has been proposed. Given that the voting phase has already begun, even with the agreement of the more amendments, we could not withdraw, so we are obliged to vote on this amendment. Your Honor! There are also no procedural proposals in the voting phase, so please, if anyone wants to explain their vote, otherwise we will vote. Mr. Sok, explanation of vote on the amendment to Article 100.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	Just for a little while. Once again, I would like to reiterate that this is not a harmonisation amendment to Article 100, it is something completely different, and in fact, you have not agreed on how they will withdraw or invest. What Comrade Visjak warned us is not a harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	I will vote against this amendment because I could not withdraw it together with the co-proposers, even though we later found that all the signatories could withdraw it. But it was a desire to do this to perfection, and if you don't let it happen, it won't, and I will vote against you knowing that it's an honest purpose, not a conspiracy, and what you're constantly and constantly saying. This is not the case, according to the secretariat, this coordination would pass on such an amendment, which actually improves the text and corrects the wrong reference. But all right, if that's the case and there's no way, I'm voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 100. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes to 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 106. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. 50 votes against 27. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 134. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. There were 53 votes against 26. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 135. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It was 52 votes against 27. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 159. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. It was 52 votes against 26. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Article 159 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 179. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 53 votes against 28. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on page 3 of the review to decide on the harmonisation amendment to the title, the procedure for adopting the national budget balance. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. There were 53 votes against 26. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to the title has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 239. Let's vote! There are 78 Members and Members present. It was 52 votes against 26. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Article 239 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 282. Let's vote! 81 Members and Members are present. 54 votes against 27. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Article 282 has been adopted. We are moving on to a full vote on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	Before voting on the Rules of Procedure, I would like to take a half-hour off on behalf of the Group on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We continue our work at 4:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	Dear Members, we will be able to determine the presence, so I ask you to press the quorum key. We're picking up the presence! 65 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. The LDS representative, who wanted a break before the decision, wants to clarify his position. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	As candidates for the harmonisation amendment and as a parliamentary group, we were unable to coordinate this half-hour, i.e. at two levels and in the parliamentary group and among the proposers, so at this point I do not see the possibility of giving the position of the Liberal Democracy Group before this decision. This is, of course, a specific situation when I am proposing an amendment, a co-proposal of an amendment and a leader of a parliamentary group. Therefore, I propose that if someone else can take a break, but given that it was only half an hour, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like another break for one hour or someone else to take it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session for the next hour. We go on, I'm sorry, he can ask twice, otherwise it's not possible. The same group may possibly request an extension. The same matter may be subject to a recess, as far as the practice so far has been, by only one parliamentary group. It is envisaged that everyone will be consulted before the decision is taken and may propose an extension. That's my decision. We'll pick it up at 5:23. Thank you very much. Your Honor! You can get upset, the president has the right to interpret and also to formulate rules of procedure. Your Honor, according to the wishes of the President of the National Assembly, I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to report to room 217 for a discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	I'll let you know that we'll continue our work at 5:45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-04-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u83	I ask Members and Members of Parliament to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly in order to continue the meeting. Please. [[...]] Colleagues and colleagues! Can you please take your seats? I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats. Please take your seats. I suggest we proceed with the suspension of the 8th session and with the suspension of the 28th point. First, of course, we recognize the presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence in the hall! 78 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Can I ask your attention and also your collegiate patience? In the light of the complication of this point, I have convened a meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, where we have tried to determine whether there is agreement between us on the continuation of the meeting at this point of the agenda. This consensus could not be drawn up. There were differing views, on the one hand, of the proposed groups, on the other, of the other parliamentary groups. I consulted as far as possible and decided it was right to continue the decision of the State Assembly. My proposal to the National Assembly is to proceed with the agenda item tomorrow at 10 a.m. Please, that's a suggestion. The proposer, who in this case is obliged to reconsider the matter, like all of us, has asked for time. I just want to be justified. We are now in a situation where the coordination amendments have not been adopted. It's a special situation. The harmonisation amendments were not adopted. Things can't go back. The proponent, all of us, and I, must consider what that means for tomorrow's decision. I propose this procedural proposal. Most will decide and I think it is only democratic to decide how to proceed with the meeting. I put this proposal to the vote. I'm asking for a vote. There are 80 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 44 for, 35 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] I find that the proposal has received the required majority. Tomorrow we will continue with the final decision on the draft Rules of Procedure and then on the 36th item of the agenda, that is elections and appointments, and then on the 23rd, then on the 8th, 24th and the orderly order. Thank you all for your cooperation today. Thank you very much.
