ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Saša Peče, Franc Kangler, Villa Trofenik, Peter Levič, Bogdan Barovic for the afternoon part of the session. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards and press the quorum. I note that 49 Members and Members are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are invited to attend today's meeting. I welcome everyone. Today's 10th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda - a proposal for a decision to continue the procedure for the establishment of municipalities, to define their areas, to change the areas of municipalities and to change the names and seats of municipalities under the law on the establishment of municipalities and to determine their areas, and then to consider the remaining items of the agenda as adopted. So we're going to move on to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION TO CONTINUE THE PROCEDURE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INT CITIZENS, NOT TO repeat this long title. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Internal Policy Committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. As is commonly known, there is a procedure that we must do once in a while. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u3	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u4	I'll be brief, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is, this is a decision of procedural nature. The procedure that we need to take in the National Assembly once between one and the other local elections is somehow in the first half of the first third if I express myself sportingly. The procedure laid down by law itself provides for a preliminary procedure with a referendum, a legislative procedure as a second phase and, of course, a constitutional procedure. In my opinion, the report before you describes very correctly the work done by the Committee, the Committee's professional services, then our secretariat, without which I find it difficult to imagine how to reach a happy end, and of course also the local self-government office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We also invited representatives of the municipalities of Slovenia, representatives of local communities and representatives of the Association of Slovene municipalities, to the proceedings or to all stages and to all the discussions held at the meeting of the Committee, which we also invited representatives of the municipalities of Slovenia. The very conclusion that is before you is divided into several chapters. When you read it, you see that the system has been taken, so that we went first in line, so there are proposals for the creation of new municipalities, then there are initiatives and then there are proposals to change the areas of municipalities, initiatives and so on. It's just part four and part five, I'll say, something substantive, to say the least, and it's also of a process nature. So, those roles that, despite being given an additional deadline to supplement applications, have not been completed, will be discarded and, of course, those who have sent them will be informed of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? There are no written reports. Before I give the floor, I would like to point out that the debate is limited to 5 minutes and that it is not possible to discuss the content, but we can only discuss the procedure. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, I would like to ask one question about this decision. I just don't know if it's going to be substantive or if it's going to be understood as procedural. Indeed, although this decision has been drawn up for a very long time, I am surprised to see that there are some errors in this decision, according to my assessment. I would like to mention point c on page 10 of this Decision. Here are the proposals made by the saints, local communities or village communities. There is no proposal from the Council of the Local Community, Sveti Tomaž, among these proposals. In the service that prepared this proposal for a decision, I was told that the Council of the Local Community had sent its role on 4 April. This is before the deadline set by the National Assembly for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u7	I ask for peace in the hall because it is impossible to follow what a colleague tells. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u8	The Council of the Local Community, Sveti Tomaž, gave its role, as I was told in my service in this National Assembly, which prepared this decision on 4 April. However, the procedures for establishing the congregations began to run a little later. So here I ask why the local community of St. Tomaž was not informed that its role was incomplete and that, in accordance with the date on which the proceedings began, the decision adopted by the local council should be sent once again. So, in this part, I think this conclusion is flawed. This should be written here, because it does not matter who the qualified applicants are, and the Council of the Local Community of St. Tomaž has undoubtedly been because such a decision has been taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members would like a word? [[No one else.]] Then I ask for the answer of the chairman of the committee, Mr Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u10	As with all Slovenia, of course, the local community of St. Tomaž also considers that the National Assembly has decided to initiate the procedure, adopted 18.4.2001 on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities, not to quote it entirely, and in this Decision, of course, has written down the date of initiation of the procedure for the establishment of municipalities. From then on and until 30.6., when the applications had to be submitted, the deadline ran. This Decision was published in the Official Journal, as required, and also in the Slovenian Diaries, in accordance with the law. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u11	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u12	I see there's a lot of excitement, and I'm gonna take it. In addition to being published in the Official Journal, this Decision was also published in Slovenian journals, Del, Dnevnik and Vecer. So it is common knowledge, and the law itself dictates that the procedure for the establishment of municipalities is guided by deadlines that are not otherwise in certain things, but some of the details are most precise, but they are, therefore, in accordance with the deadlines in this law. That is why both the Secretariat and the Government Office believe that the applications to the National Assembly should be taken into account within the time limit set by the State Assembly by Decision 18.4.2001.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I find that there is no debate, and I conclude it. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. So, you have a proposal for a decision in writing and we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 64 members and Members voted against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. At this point, we also have a proposal for an additional decision, drawn up by Mr Jože Ašič, which is that you have a proposal for an additional decision on the tables. This proposal reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls," I do not know if I can suggest the word "proposal" to the proposer, I mean, this is now my very personal view of this, "proposing to the government," well, "calling the government to submit, as soon as possible, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities, which must be implemented before the decision on the referendum areas and the referendums. Who wants to discuss the proposed additional decision? Mr. Auschwitz, please, and then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. I think that the proposed additional decision is very short and substantively very important. The problem of funding the local communities have long been present and this is happening every financial year, especially four years ago, when new municipalities were established. I think that a mistake was made four years ago when we adopted a similar decision here today, but we did not enforce it, but we changed the law on the financing of local communities after the new municipalities were established and the financial conditions changed, and then the disputes in the Constitutional Court continued with respect to legal solutions. I believe and believe that congregations that are being established need to know the economic conditions under which these new congregations will operate. It is therefore essential that we come as soon as possible before us with a proposal for amendments and additions that are necessary in the Law on the Financing of the Communities, so that at the same time, when people are considering proposals for the establishment of a new congregation, they also know how this new municipality will be financed under, of course, our legislation. I propose that this decision be supported by the National Assembly, and even more so that the Government will take it seriously in the process of establishing new municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what's going on today or what's affecting, I don't know, a meteoroid on you, but I can't calm you down, I don't know how to do it. However, it is not possible to keep the meeting going this way. So please all those who are talking very loudly, so that I can hear you here, let it do it either quieter or outside, there is no other option. I'm gonna have to stop this session if there's no proper atmosphere in the hall. I forgive myself for this prediction, but it's no different. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. I am not opposed to the idea, the basic idea of Comrade Auschwitz in relation to this proposal for a decision. I would like to point out, however, that the actual funding of municipalities or local governments is such a sensitive issue that the text of the decision, which is envisaged here, instructs the government to submit to the National Assembly and that it should adopt a new law on the financing of municipalities before deciding on the referendums and referendums, can in fact once again take a step in this direction so that the State Assembly takes some decisions on the financing of municipalities in a hasty manner and will then show itself again in practice that they are not good. That is why I would ask my colleague Auschwitz that it may be possible for him, because I do not oppose this decision, but I think it would make sense for us to take some more time and actually draw up a law on the financing of the municipalities so quality that there would not be so much trouble in practice as we have seen in the past. Therefore, I think it would be reasonable to correct the proposal for a decision in this direction, so that the explicit time government does not commit itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u17	Mr. Rokavec! If I may only remind you of the word "call." The National Assembly doesn't do anything, it doesn't ask for anything, it calls. This is Mr Auschwitz's suggestion that the government should think about it somehow, because it is written that way. Perhaps, Mr. Ashewch's Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think you've summed up the dictates of this conclusion well. The National Assembly can't impose anything on the government. However, we can call on the government, recommend it and suggest it, express our wishes, and point out that if we do not have clear funding for the congregations for the following, this is the year 2003, after many congregations have come to life, that the problems that we have witnessed in the last period since our establishment four years ago will be again. Of course, it is not necessary for us to adopt the law effectively when we call for a referendum. But if we then have a marriage solution before us, funding projections can already be planned in this draft. And since we are aware that the government is also preparing this for the Ministry of Finance to prepare changes to the law, there is no reason not to deal with them as quickly as possible, to hand them over to the National Assembly and, of course, we can, in some way, also include them in the hearing when we decide on the referendums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Yes, you can. Mr. Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'll back this decision. We are ahead of important decision-making or decision-making in the field. The current Law on Community Financing is extremely favourable to small congregations. I'm extremely fond of you. If we let these small congregations decide on their independence and then later turn the marriage into an unfavourable situation, I doubt that referendums in large areas where the larger congregations have succeeded will succeed in bringing them back together. This is said to be the responsibility of the national assembly and, of course, of the government before the change or division of congregations, what and what awaits them. That is to say, congregations that want to secede from the present congregations, or congregations that want to split or divide, must have a clear vision of what awaits them. And in this case, it is the decision that somehow imposes or calls on the government to do so by then. That's why I'm going to support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows! I am personally prepared to support this proposal for an additional decision, of course if the purpose of this national assembly, as well as the purpose of the government as the initiator or sponsor of this new proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities, is to make things better. However, if you are now thinking of calling on the government to draw up a proposal that will be worse for the funding of municipalities than it has been before, then it would not be able to support this as soon as possible. And I would be very happy to hear today from a representative of the proposalrs, from a coalition representative, if anyone knows this information, or from a government representative, whether this law will contribute to the improvement of the funding of the municipalities and also to contribute to the many tasks that municipalities have to perform, which are additionally imposed on them - we all know this, these processes that are taking place in the adoption of legislation in the National Assembly, and the government is, of course, always imposing new obligations on the municipalities, but the financial resources are not, but the burdens are increasing. And given the substantiation of our municipalities according to the European Community - there are also recommendations, if I am not mistaken, by the European Community - that municipalities should be provided with more resources, not less. However, if you think of small municipalities now - although I agree that they must be adapted to some general conditions, the number of people, size and so on, but if you think you small municipalities should be able to prevent them from doing business now, and that you should try to correct any mistakes in return with this new law on the financing of municipalities in this way, then I absolutely disagree with this process. That's a fact. I would therefore like to ask for an explanation of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I warn Members of Parliament and Members that I will not allow discussions on the financing of municipalities. We are talking about Mr Auschwitz's proposal for an additional decision, which only calls on the government to do something, and it is only possible to discuss it, but not what the new law will be like or if something is already going on in this regard; nor does it matter what your opinion on what the funding of the municipalities is today. Please, let us stick to the rules of procedure and discuss what is on the agenda. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only point out that, in June, I think we have adopted in this National Assembly a timetable of procedures which is likely to need to be followed. It is likely that referendums in all these areas will have to be announced after this calendar in December if the national assembly so decides. So from the perspective of the implementation of the calendar, it seems to me that this call to the government is now somewhat questionable. "Prepare" - I understand Mr Auschwitz that his proposal is going in this direction so that the government can prepare. I will say, however, a highly restrictive law on the financing of municipalities is unstimulating, particularly in terms of preventing further increases in the number of municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u25	It doesn't say anything about that. Please don't discuss what's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u26	Mr. President, please, if you'll allow me to say this to the end. This is legitimate, but I think it is unrealistic at this point to expect that we can do anything, according to the calendar - I am discussing the calendar, Mr Vice President! And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that all these procedures must be completed at least six months before the call for local elections, which are in the autumn of 2002, the following year. Therefore, from this point of view, I find this conclusion problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I forgive you for interrupting, but I appeal again, the decision is written and discussed. Who wants another word? Mr Jerovšek and then Mr Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. See, it also seems to me that at the moment to call on a government that needs to be aware of its duties and that such a proposal and appropriate explanations may already be on the table, so at the moment to call on the government, I find it pointless, although I could agree with the explanation, but not with the proposal. Indeed, I believe that the government needs a logistical and political background and support for its neck-tightening projects to small municipalities. We know that the Constitutional Court has once again prevented and annulled certain decisions. And dangerous things can be hidden in this. And the European Union report requires more work on regional development. This is going the other way. This goes in the direction of centralisation of the country, yet further, which is the project of this government coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Is there anything else Mr. Lavrinc has to say about this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u30	Yes, if you'll allow me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u31	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u32	I may even abuse the rules of procedure a little bit in the sense that you have warned me, but I will do my best to be as few as possible. I myself will support the proposal for this Decision. Not because I personally think he's viable. But he's not viable. It should be known that in any such case, when we speak of a law that still applies to the congregations, it is necessary to invite all congregations to participate in the formation of a law, making this process more difficult or longer. In such a way that this decision must be counted in particular as - after all, you, the President, have also found - to be an impulse for the government to do something about it. Of course, we are all aware that local self-government has come a long way, that there is a need for legislation to be reformed, that laws must be written in such a way that they can be read in every local community, village community and so on, without the three services breaking their heads here, for example, as to the interpretation of Articles 8 and 6 of the Law, etc. This way. Secondly, I will say, because of what we have adopted at the time, which is no longer in place, I will inform all Members of the Commission how the procedure is now possible and, for example, the referendums will only be on Sunday, 24 or 31 March, and by then all that must be going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you. That would make Mr. Companion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It is very important that, when such a decision is taken, all Members and Members of Parliament know clearly and also on the ground that the content of this Decision does not affect the procedure for the establishment of municipalities. This is a key matter. From previous mandates, we can remember some similar conclusions that have become quite a condition for a process to continue. The content of the decision on its own is welcome, even if the government does not meet it. The procedure for the establishment of municipalities, as set out in the law, unfortunately no longer fully after the adopted calendar, continues. This needs to be told to the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Petan, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, I'd say how times change. Members of the previous term will probably remember that we have just proposed a very similar conclusion, the content is exactly the same, but perhaps there is a word around. I'd say so. The decision is good, normal, and necessary if we are to establish new congregations at all. However, it is embarrassing that this conclusion is now coming at a time when the process of forming new congregations has already begun. The fact is that it is not normal for nationals, people, citizens to promise that, of course, they have every opportunity to establish their own congregation to set good examples and examples; on the other hand, they do not know or will not know the conditions in which the congregations will have to work. We were able to listen to the secretary of state from one of the ministries say that the conditions for new, especially small, congregations would deteriorate significantly so that they would even have to get worse. Of course, it would be good for our citizens to pour pure wine, with what financial conditions they will face if they vote in the new congregation and choose their own way. Therefore, this content of the conclusion seems perfectly normal to me. Unfortunately, however, perhaps time is not most appropriate, since we are already in the process, but the conditions for retrofitting are a little awkward. On the one hand, I am also happy or, on the other hand, surprised at what Mr Lavrinc said would probably not happen. I join him, too, because the government simply cheers up on such conclusions. That's another truth. However, it would be right if the government took this seriously and that this might even be on the table. If not, however, this conclusion, even though we are calling, would come upon fertile soil and that the government would do something because it would have to do so. Well, if she's really going to fix things back, it's going to be a little awkward. But we are in such a situation that something has to be said. It would be wise to say this before we send people to the polls to decide whether they are on their own in the new congregation or not. So this joint is a little weird. I have a feeling he's got a different instinct than the one he thought he was. Of course, the contents are real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you. Is there no more discussion? It's gone. Mr. Azhitch. So we don't start a new wave now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u38	Just a brief explanation. I have no other intention than what's written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you. Can we close the debate on this additional decision? Yes, you can. So I conclude the debate on the additional decision put forward by Mr Ašić. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please! Of the 63 present, 51 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. I thank Minister Bohinc and his colleagues for their presence at this point. I'm moving to three. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on payment travel. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Here are the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, mag. Darko Tolar, Secretary of State and Mr Stanko Strin, Undersecretary of State. I welcome them and ask them if they want a word. Please. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u40	Dear Members! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the draft law at first reading as a suitable basis for the preparation of the law for second reading, with the decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia providing guidance for the preparation of the law for second reading. The bill before you replaces the second reading bill already tabled before this proposal. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed replacing the text in order to ensure that this law is addressed as economically as possible. In the field of electronic money regulation, it was necessary to follow further the European Union Directive and also to regulate the issue of electronic money. Taking into account the fact that this law provides a legal basis for the completion of payment transport reform and the related closure of the paying agency, it was also necessary to harmonise the dynamics of payment transport reform in the transitional provisions. Certain harmonisations were also subsequently needed for solutions to the already adopted bond code, which also made the replacement text necessary. The draft law for the second reading follows the decisions adopted by the National Assembly at first reading and the open questions were definitively coordinated between the proposed law, the Bank of Slovenia, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Payments, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Secretariat for the Law of the National Assembly. The Committee on Finance and the Monetary System adopted the text of amendments, in line with the views of the proposer, which is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, apart from the amendment to Article 85 of the law, supports, as reflected in the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted on 20.11.2001 at the correspondence meeting. The proposed amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary System have now improved the text of the bill by nomotechnical means, removed some uncertainties and, in line with Banka Slovenije's views, clearly defined the status of Banka Slovenije. Banka Slovenije is a payment traffic regulator and has a special position with regard to the implementation of payments in the single treasury account system and payments carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Bank of Slovenia Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a second reading law, under the amendments proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary System, is appropriate for adoption in second reading and proposes that the State Assembly adopt this proposal after consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The debate on payment transport reform takes place in Slovenia almost as long as our old country. That's why he's had a pretty long history. For various reasons, of course, the reform of payment transport is also very interesting for various stakeholders in logistics groups. The Act, which is ready for consideration in the second reading, dealt with the mother's working body at the 15th meeting, by having held a general discussion in the first part and by commenting on the five or even six different interest groups, gave only one week of time to align their differing views, including in accordance with the Secretariat's considerable comments on the legislation and legal affairs of our National Assembly, so that the Committee could adequately supplement the individual provisions of the law. Accordingly, the Committee then adopted a number of harmonised amendments below, and in this regard I propose that, after discussion, colleagues and colleagues support the amendments of the Committee, which are coordinated among the various stakeholders, in addition to the fact that the Committee, irrespective of the fact that this amendment was not harmonised, particularly among the trade unions of employees in the Agency for Payments and Government, has adopted the amendment, in particular, on the ground that, should this amendment be supported in the National Assembly, this article has been opened and given the opportunity to try to find a better solution than is currently proposed, or to the extent possible, to the extent possible, to the extent possible. - attempt to take into account the social component contained in Article 85. All the amendments of the Committee are coordinated between the various parties, except for Article 85, and I therefore propose - also because there was such a majority position between the members and members of the Committee - that this amendment could possibly be accepted, since it would give both the government and the other parties the opportunity to try to find a possible solution by the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Mr. Barovich. You know, we're not talking about the amendments right now, are we? We'll talk about the amendments later. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. We are talking about the proposal for a bill on payment turnover, which is under second reading. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group is that it is right for this law to be definitively regulated. However, we also point to the provisions of Articles 84 and 85, because the practice has shown that certain procedures are already being carried out in the paying agencies, which are not in accordance with Articles 84 and 85. This means that some paying agencies in some places are already trying to abolish, irrespective of what paragraphs 84 and 85 provide. I therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, point out that the adoption of this proposal will have to be monitored in a different way before it is put into effect. Once again, I would like to point out that there is a discrepancy between the provisions of these Articles and the practical implementation of certain agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you. Just so we're clear. This is not a general debate on the law, but essentially what has been said so far by a government representative, then the chairman of the committee or the rapporteur of the committee. But we will discuss the amendments when they are due. Indeed, the rules of procedure and practice are such, so that representatives of the groups of Members have the right to speak at this stage. Please, Mr. Visac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! The law has been in the process of examining the second reading for the third year, and it has been significantly changed and more extensive. This also shows that it is not an insignificant or so-called technical law, but a law that can have a very significant impact on the efficiency of business in the market economy. It is in the opinion of most economic persons and independent experts that this law should be adopted before the Bank of Slovenia launched a payment transport reform and its decision was supported by the government. This happened at the Drnovskov government meeting before the elections in 1996. In this case, it may be possible, taking into account the professional public, to prevent a senseless and uneconomic breakdown of the infrastructure by which the Agency for Payments today provides payment services as, under the terms "swiss hour". This is the opinion of the Members of Liberal Democracy. In the age of information technology, it is totally irrelevant whether a bank employee maintains an account of an individual economic operator with a computer set on Šmartinski or Cankarje Street. In short, it is somehow too late for the Social Democratic Party to speak and adopt such a law in this context, because most of the irrational and uneconomic acts have already taken place. Just one more question to the government representative. On the other hand, how many countries, as owners of the New Ljubljana Bank, have cost a failed information upgrade project in terms of payment transport? How big was that investment? And, of course, how did this investment in terms of "cost-benefit" analysis hold up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Bernick, please. On behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Members! Just for a little while. Although Mr Pucko has just mentioned that all of this was already, or amendments, that they were coordinated on the Committee on Financial Policy, it seems to me that some comments are needed. For man would expect that, after so many years of preparation, this law would produce much better results than we did, for many of the comments that came to the committee show that in these years it is likely that what should have been done was not done in order for this law to be harmonised between consumers, the country, banks, etc. If one looks at this proposal and also the comments that have been made here so far, one could say that the law, like this one, must be viewed with more views: it is user-friendly, improving the existing situation, technical progress, visibility in the financial consequences, debirocratisation of procedures and the least budgetary use, burden. Now in the 10 years we've been coming to the third payment system, and it seems to me that one might be here wondering how we haven't taken a bigger step forward. Because now, after this proposal, the banks are somewhere in the middle and on the one hand they say they are not qualified, not financially or technically. Because standardisation of information systems that are necessary for the well functioning of this system or proposed system is financially difficult - standardisation is not available, so smaller banks will have to fight hard to survive. In particular, a person is disturbed by the fact that the proposal is not user-friendly, especially not to citizens. If we think that at least six branches of the current APP, namely Postojna, Ptuj, Trbovlje, Kočevje, Krška and Velenje, are now being abolished. One wonders where people or taxpayers or clients will go now. Like if they went to Postojna now, where would they go - to Ljubljana? I mean, that wasn't well thought out. The proposal, such as this, is intended to allow for the competitiveness of bank payment services. If this is possible, of course it is questionable, because we have something on the one hand that some lilyputan banks have, and on the other hand there are two large ones that often act as monopolists. Next. We know little about future levels, and what we know is not particularly comforting. Indeed, the APP had many resources, with offices that will now somehow pass through the negotiations, apparently, into the hands of those banks that will take over the business. It is not entirely clear on what criterion this has been done. And it's not clear what the price is. In fact, if this business is transferred to banks, one would think that banks should not only accept these funds but also employees who have been employed so far - if I know correctly, there are about 130 employees who have not been redeployed to the state administration. Of course, this raises the economic issue of the survival of these people, and of course some kind of discrimination if the government takes over or realizes that these people need to be placed for social reasons in the state administration and so far there is no solution. And I think this is where the government should try a little more. Next. In view of the fact that the agency is being shut down and the Agency’s branches are being shut down, one would also expect banks to expand services that are needed, but it seems that this is not in the plan. The way the bank or how the state dealt with certain things, let's say the purchase of this property - first of all, it was said in 2000, that the purchase was intended to purchase new real property owned by the Ministry and intended to cover the costs of implementing the payment system reform project in the Republic of Slovenia, whereas in the 31st section of the same law, which appeared to be amended this year, it is said that, in accordance with the law, legal persons who will take over payment transactions will be taken over by the banks who have now been employed in this payment transaction. However, the purchase referred to in this Title shall be made, irrespective of the provision of Article 22, paragraph 2, of this Law, for the purchase of the new real property of the State in the management of the Ministry of Finance. Well, there's been a significant change here. We in New Slovenia believe that some of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance are acceptable. However, some do not go far enough and we will therefore be selective about supporting this whole proposal. In the end, however, one also wonders how it is possible that we have failed or that we have not done everything to train banks, our banks, to take most of the payment traffic that this law foresees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Representatives of the parliamentary groups are now on the agenda. No one else. Yes, Dr. Bayuk. On behalf of the NSI Group of Members, or how?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u50	Mr President, I have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u51	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In view of the position put forward on behalf of the Group of Members, my colleague, Dr Jože Bernik, I propose that a procedural decision be taken to bring this law back to first reading, because we do not yet have clear solutions to the problems facing our payment system. The mistakes that have been made in the past and the outstanding issues that are obviously still present are the basis for the Government and Banka Slovenije to submit a different proposal that will take account of the overall solutions and the future of our system. It is pointless that we today listen to what the Chairman of the Finance Committee has already said is consistent with certain interests. I assure you, however, that it is not in line with common sense and with business, how our system should work, even for our global competitiveness. We can have such a payment system that it will not require additional investments as it is now. That we don't have millions and millions of marks in state-owned banks, but we don't have any of them yet. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a system law that needs to be presented more clearly and needs different solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. So, the procedural proposal of Mr Bayuk is that the proposed law be reopened. Does anyone want a word on this proposal? But here it is possible to discuss. Mr. Pucko and then Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Such a suggestion, to put it mildly, is completely inconclusive, not to say ridiculous. Especially if it comes from people who don't know things. If we knew them, we would know at least two things: for the first time, that the main inhibitor is your advisor or counselor who suggests that we are here where we are. If it hadn't been for almost a decade, the law would have been passed. That is why, of course, I find it unrealistic that you come up with such a proposal and I am absolutely against it. I also say this on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, in order to oppose this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u55	Mr. Horvath, please. Could you turn it off, Mr. Pucko, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also object to this proposal. I think it would be very harmful if we accepted it, because we would actually reject the final phase of a project that has been prepared for years and years and it is designed by a number of leading or most eminent experts in this area, among them to mention that Mr Marko Kranjec, Minister of the Government of Demos, Minister of Finance at the time when our national currency was also introduced, and that I do not mention a number of other experts. It is true that there have been many different opinions, but these opinions have been clarified and there has also been a great deal of unification. But on no matter ever does everyone agree, for any reason or other. In the final phase, look, before the hearing on the Committee on Finance, we did have what was a bit unusual, a lot of comments, both by the Association of Banks, we had comments from individual banks, by the Chamber of Economics and, perhaps a little strange, by the Bank of Slovenia to some extent. However, after a joint work, following the joint coordination of these different positions, there has been the creation of the amendments that we have before us and which have been adopted by the Committee on Finance. So that, even at this final stage, even with some different views and interests, there has been a great degree of unification. I therefore think that it is necessary to adopt the law and that it would be very harmful if we actually returned it to the first reading and started a new story because it is already late in the implementation of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you. I understood that this was the position of your Group, because it is going on now at this level of debate, this is not a debate, general debate, of all Members and Members, but on behalf of the Group of Members a procedural proposal has been tabled and this procedural proposal can be discussed at the level of the Group of Members. [[...]] Please, if you can take this into account. Replica, Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'm surprised we have to listen to such things and such personal evaluations. I would just like to make it clear and clear that this proposal is my proposal and that the counsellor whom Mr Pucko is talking about has had no role to play in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you. I made a mistake while teaching you how to respect the rules of procedure, I made a mistake and I gave you a replica I shouldn't have given. It happens. I'm sorry. Any of the other MPs? Who will now speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Petan or Mr Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you. I'll be very brief. So there are certain things that need to be explained, and this is just this institute. Some, however, may also be allowed to eat, as they are called. What Mr Pucko said is beyond a bit of sound logic. In fact, if one person can block a project for years, then I would like to know which person is so strong in Slovenia that he can even vote on this Parliament, in which you who are essentially in power, almost a two-thirds majority. The Rules of Procedure showed that it was a vote, two at a time. That's what it says. That's how it started. No, yeah, I'll give you an opinion. I'll give you an opinion, whatever it is. The fact is, we have a government, we have a ruling majority in Parliament, and they can pass laws. That one person who has even been to the employment office can block years of marriage, which is a little too severe. And I replicate just so that there won't be, even if you're the ruling majority, if you have almost a two-thirds majority, that you'll shave us out of our heads to tell us that. That's a little too bad, and that's why I stopped by. I'm sorry if I've taken advantage of the rules of procedure myself, but some things really go over the edge and over the edge of good taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you. Any other members of the group would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on this proposal. The proposal is to re-examine the law. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote, please. Something stopped. We're re-voting. We have to wait a while. Something's come up. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now re-vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 14 Members and Members voted against 40 Members. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. That is why I am moving on to the examination and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. First of all, I would like to suggest to the Assembly that, according to the second indent, excuse me. [[...]] Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u62	Since we have an amendment on some articles, I would like to ask, Mr President, for a 15-minute recess on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u63	15-minute break. Although the marriage is one month in the process, fine. We'll pick it up at 11:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u64	We continue with this agenda item. We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. I see there are fewer of us. It's 11:30. We recognize the presence in the hall! Please press the quorum. [[42 present.]] We can't go on with our work. I will ask all my colleagues and colleagues who are nearby to come to the hall in order to continue with this item on the agenda, or I will have to stop the meeting. There's still not enough of us. I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues around if they can join us. Next time, we find out if there's a presence. Quorum, please! I'm guessing we're 45. That says we're not concluding. I'm taking ten minutes off. Then we'll go to the third reading at 11.42.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u65	It's 11:42. I ask those of you who are nearby to come to the hall so that they may continue the meeting. Let's find out for the third time! Quorum, please. May I please the Members who are standing there, if I may be of the opinion that 61 are present. [[...]] So we're done. Let's move on to this point. I propose to the assembly a procedural decision. I propose that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present and Members present. Let us vote on this proposal! Of the 53 present, 42 votes in favour, 3 against. [[She voted 42.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of two materials. First, the material entitled Review of amendments to the proposal for a Law on Payments shall be treated secondly, of 20.11.2001. In addition, we have here amendments tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Andrei Visiak, 21.11.2001. The amendments of the LDS, the United List, SLS and DeSUS are now being shared. This is the third source we will discuss. And, as I can see, it's in preparation, sharing a fourth resource that we're going to discuss. So we are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 where we have two amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment to Article 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. The amendment was accepted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We're at the 4th. We have two amendments here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 4. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 4. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] The second amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 4 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 44 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] Article 4 is adopted. We're at Article 6. We have two amendments here. We've got one in this extensive piece of amendments, and you just received the other one on the table. Both are excluded, as you can see, because in the first amendment, there is a talk that the article is amended to read, in the second amendment tabled by the LDS members and so on, it is amended to read: It's not a supplement, but it's a detail. I hope you won't be too careful about this. We have a debate on these two amendments. Who wants a word? Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u66	The complementary proposal, which is in the basic material, may also cover to a large extent the intention of the amendment tabled by the four coalition groups, but we believe that this new amendment provides a slightly more precise definition of the content, because it specifically requires that the Bank of Slovenia also prescribes payment standards. I also believe that a period of time from the second to the third reading can be reconciled with the possible dictional differences. However, I believe that this new proposed amendment better covers the intention of this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Kavčič. As the first-signed proposalr, I ask you to agree that instead of the word "complete" we write "change" because it is not a supplement to the article, but a change. Do you agree with that? Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We will first vote on Mr Kavčič's proposal and the other signatories to the parliamentary groups. If this decision is put to the vote, of course, the second is irrelevant. We are voting first on the proposal by LDS, the United List, SLS and DeSUS. Let's vote please! Of the 60 present, 48 votes in favour and 7 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 6 has been adopted. With this, the amendment we have in this second edition of the Finance Committee is irrelevant. The Article is amended so that no second vote is required on this matter. We're moving on to Article 7. There's an amendment. Who wants a word? Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I would only ask, given that we have just now adopted an amendment that says that the Bank of Slovenia also prescribes standards for the management of payment traffic. Now we have again the 7th Amendment, if I am not mistaken, to apply the standards for which terms of payment turnover are used. Now I don't know what that's like. Are these two articles in harmony? I'm just asking because I didn't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u69	Who's going to comment on this? I am trying to find out, so I am trying to find the answer to this question, but it might be better if Mr Kavčič answers this, because paragraph 6 is only proposed. Please, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, colleague Kelemini. I suggest because we cannot withdraw the amendment as a committee to reject the amendment. In fact, we follow what we have accepted before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u71	So you heard the proposal. Who wants another word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let us vote on the first amendment to Article 7. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 22 Members and Members voted against 32. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 45 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted. We're at Article 8. We have an extensive amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 8. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 49 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 7 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] The Article has been adopted. We're at the 12th. There's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 12. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 47 votes in favour and 4 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 12 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 47 voted in favour of Members and Members, 4 opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 13. There's an amendment. As you can see in the footnote, this amendment makes sense to the amendment of the Committee to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? There's no debate. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 13. We're voting please! Of the 52 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 13 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 54 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 13 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 17. There's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 17. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 17 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 55 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 17 has been adopted. We're at Article 18. There's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote please! Of the 54 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In addition, the vote on Article 18 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 51 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 18 has been adopted. We're at the 21st. There's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 21. Let's vote please! Of the 52 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 21st full. Let's vote please! Of the 50 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that Article 21 has been adopted. Article 22 is more editorial. We have an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 22. Let's vote! Of the 52 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 22 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that Article 22 has been adopted. We're at Article 24, where there's one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 24. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 24 has been adopted. We still vote on Article 24 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 48 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 24 has been adopted. At Article 28, we have one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 28. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 28 has been adopted. We still vote on Article 28 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 28 has been adopted. Article 31 is one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 31. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 41 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 31st article as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 31 has been adopted. We're at Article 37. There are two amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the amendments. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 37. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 49 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 37. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] The second amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 37 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Article 37 is hereby adopted. There is an amendment to Article 40. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 40. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] Article 40 is adopted. We also have one amendment under Article 41. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We vote on the amendment to Article 41. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 41 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 45 votes in favour, Members and Members of Parliament, 1 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] Article 41 is hereby adopted. Article 44 is one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the amendment to Article 44. Let's vote! Of the 56 present, 49 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on Article 44 as a whole. Let's vote! Of the 54 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 46 is one amendment which constitutes an amendment to Article 46. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 46. Let's vote, please! Of the 52 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 46 has been amended. We're at Article 48. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 48. Let's vote please! Of the 51 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 48 as a whole. Let's vote! Of the 51 present, 46 votes in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 48 has been adopted. Article 59 is one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 59. Let's vote! Of the 53 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 59 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 57 present, 49 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 59 has been adopted. Article 66, where there is one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 66. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 66 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 40 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 66 has been adopted. Article 68 and the broader amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to the vote on the amendment to Article 68. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There is no need for an amendment to vote on Article 68. We are under amendment to Article 70 [[which is on a special sheet of paper]] . I'm opening a debate on this amendment. We have two applications, first Mr Vizjak as the first to be signed on behalf of the Group of Members, probably. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'd like to draw your attention to this amendment. Article 70, paragraph 4, states that "the agency of the Republic of Slovenia for public records and services shall have its seat in Ljubljana and shall also carry out its tasks through outposts outside the seat of the office, in the locations of the branches of the current paying agency of the Republic of Slovenia, as determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the act". The purpose of the amendment is to organise or establish these exposures in all statistical regions. It must be said that the exhibitions of the paying agency are organised in an even more detailed structure, but we need to ensure that these services are equally accessible throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as equally as possible and rationally, given the capacity available and the professional staff. It is therefore certainly necessary to maintain in each statistical region the exposure of both the public records and services agency of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the public payment administration. That is why we are proposing, and I would also like to attach an explanation here to Article 73, which follows that I do not repeat myself, that these exposures or branches of government should be identified and determined in each statistical region, and that in any other way does not prejudge the future regional division of Slovenia and, of course, ensure that these services are equally accessible to all citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For the reasons just stated, and also for the reasons associated with the amendment of the Committee by Article 85, we will support both Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you. Who else wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 70. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 56 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on Article 70 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 50 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] Article 70 is adopted. We're at 71. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 71. Let's vote. Of the 55 present, 48 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Let us vote on Article 71 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 53 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that paragraph 71 has been adopted. We are in Article 73, which is also presented to the assembly in a special letter. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 73. Let's vote. Of the 55 present, 52 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 73 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 49 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 74. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 74. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 74 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Out of 47 Members and Members, 41 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] Article 74 is adopted. There is one amendment to Article 75. Who wants a word? Excuse me, I have another one right now. You've got it on your hands, too. Thus, we have two amendments to Article 75. I'm opening a debate on both. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u76	The amendment tabled by the four coalition groups of Members, which states that a new 8th point is added in the first paragraph, which reads: "...which does not take into account the prescribed order of execution of payments, means only specifying the principles which are otherwise represented in the law." This is because compliance with the prescribed order of payments is a category which is essential for the quality of payment operations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the amendments tabled to Article 75. First of all, we are voting on the amendment just explained by Mr Kavčič on behalf of the parliamentary groups. So we are voting first on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are also voting on the amendment, which we have on the 12th page at Article 75. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 75 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Let's vote! Of the 54 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 75 has been adopted. Article 76 Who wants a word? There's an amendment. [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 76. Let's vote! Of the 55 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 76 as a whole. Let's vote! Of the 49 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 79 You have an amendment on a special paper sheet. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u78	In the Committee's debate, the rapporteur was of the opinion that, while this topic is already sufficiently well regulated at the legal level, the problems encountered in practice stem from non-compliance with the rules and laws in force. However, after a closer examination of the issue, it seemed necessary to regulate this issue slightly more precisely in order to ensure that the level of service achieved by users in electronic commerce by the Slovenian paying agency would not be reduced in terms of quality, economy and security. That's what this amendment is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 79. Let's vote, please. Let's vote! Of the 55 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 79 as a whole. Let's vote! Of the 50 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. There is an amendment to Article 81. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 81. Let's vote! Of the 53 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on Article 81 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 50 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 81 has been adopted. There is an amendment to Article 85. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 85. Let's vote, please! Of the 52 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Article 85 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. There is one amendment to Article 88. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote! Of the 53 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 88 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 51 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 88 has been adopted. It's at 89. There is an amendment to the article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 89. Let's vote! Of the 53 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 89 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 55 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. With this, we have exhausted the amendments and are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the title of the law. Let's vote! Of the 52 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting forward the following proposal for a decision in the debate: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Anyone would like to discuss this proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. Let's vote! Of the 51 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. With regard to this point, we still have an additional conclusion [[You got it on the bench.]] , are signed to the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia. Who wants to discuss the proposed additional decision? The one where it says that "the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires" in the first was "proposal" and in the revised text "request" is the 270th Rule of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We have already proposed several times, suggested to the government, and unfortunately we have not achieved anything. That is why we apply the applicable business rules here and we also demand it; how successful we will be, and we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you. Anyone else? I can therefore understand that we have concluded the debate on this additional decision. Thank you. We turn to the vote on the additional decision put forward. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] No additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the legislation on mandatory traffic closures. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. Government representatives are here. I would like to ask the representative of the Government for an introductory statement. Mr. Mag. Tolar, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u82	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport provides for the harmonisation of the area of compulsory insurance in transport with the legal order of the European Union in the field of compulsory car insurance, as well as compliance with the existing Slovenian legislation which relates to this area, which was created after the adoption of the current law, in particular the Road Safety Act and the Insurance Act. The law does not affect the principles and basic content already introduced by the law in force, but brings additional safeguards for their implementation, in particular those for the protection of the injured person. In 1999 the Republic of Slovenia committed itself to taking over the entire acquis of the European Union. The law must therefore fully comply with the guidelines governing the insurance of car liability and with the guidelines governing collateral in general. The guidelines are mainly designed to improve the protection of the injured person. The conclusion of compulsory insurances of the existing law in Article 5 only allows insurance undertakings registered for the conclusion of such insurance at the competent court in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to implement the principle of direct service management, which is also provided for by the Insurance Act, it will be necessary to delete Article 5 of the Current Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport from the date of Slovenia's membership in the European Union. An important amendment to the law requires coordination with the third asset insurance directive, which prohibits prior approval of insurance conditions. The prior approval of the insurance conditions will be abolished from the date of the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. From then on, insurance companies will forward the text of the insurance conditions to the insurance agency before they start using them. The Agency will be informed of them and will have the option of "a senior" supervision and will act if it finds that the conditions are incompatible with the law. The law also increases the minimum insurance sums to be paid by the insurance company to the victims for damage caused by the death and injury caused by the car insurance. There is also an increase in the insurance sums at which the insurance of passengers in public transport is entered into, by approximately the same percentage as the increase in the insurance sums for personal damage to car insurance. The law also lays down more precisely certain mandatory provisions of the insurance contract for the insurance of car liability, which have been left to the arrangements so far under insurance conditions approved by the Minister of Finance. Pre-certification of insurance conditions shall be eliminated, which, in the event of relatively small competition on the market, requires the legal regulation of this content in order to protect the insured. Even in many Member States of the European Union, more precise, private and legal rules for this area were adopted after the prior validation of the conditions already in 1994 in order to comply with the third asset insurance directive. In order to comply with the Road Safety Act, which abolishes the annual extension of the marketing authorisation, it is necessary to establish additional checks on the conclusion of the compulsory car insurance. The law imposes an obligation on the insurance undertaking to determine on the contrary whether the insurance contract is still in force and informs the competent administrative unit which is liable to the non-insured vehicle to withdraw the plates. The main part of the changes related to the approximation of the European legal order relates to the protection of injured persons in the event of injury occurring outside the territory of his country or his permanent residence. Following the regulation so far, it should enforce its claim for compensation in another Member State. The first solution to the fourth guideline is that such injured persons may apply for compensation in the Member State of their permanent residence with the competent authority for the disposal of harmful cases referred to there by the insurance undertaking of the party responsible for the damage. This also means that every Slovenian insurance company will have to have an authority in all Member States. The law also contains obligations for insurance undertakings of the Member States of the European Union who, after the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, will wish to carry out insurance business with us without the establishment of a branch. In the Republic of Slovenia, they will have to appoint an officer established or resident in the Republic of Slovenia. The law also improves the problem of injured persons when they have difficulties providing the information needed to enforce the claim. The law thus creates an information centre in the Slovenian Insurance Association, which collects data on vehicle registration numbers, insurance policy numbers, name insurance companies and their authorities. This information shall be transmitted to the injured persons and shall also be obtained from the registers of information centres of other Member States. The law forms the compensation body of the Slovenian Insurance Association. Under certain conditions, this will provide compensation to the permanent residents of the Republic of Slovenia for accidents caused in other Member States. It will ensure the protection of the injured persons in cases where the injured person has failed to enforce his claim successfully in the insurance undertaking where the vehicle is insured or with his authorised representative. The law also introduces compulsory liability insurance for the owner of the boat for damage caused by the use of the boat registered in the boat register, as protection of the injured is also necessary in the area of maritime transport. This principle is also followed by the draft Convention on Sports and Entertainment in the Mediterranean Sea, which provides for compulsory insurance for the owners of these vessels when they are sailing in this sea. The neighbouring countries have already introduced compulsory insurance for shipowners; I am referring to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy. Dear Members and Members! The law presented means first of all harmonisation with the European legal order and its acceptance of the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia from the negotiating centre for the free movement of services. Together with the solutions, which also entail compliance with other related Slovenian legislation, it raises the protection of the injured person to a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the representative of the Committee to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered that proposal to be a parent labour force. In the broad debate, certain issues were raised, in particular those where, in terms of consistency of the acquis, there was a reflection on the relevance of the implementation of large-scale amendment or whether the preparation of the new text would be more appropriate. A question was also raised regarding the financial implications and the enforcement of insurance in the event of an accident abroad or in the country of origin. The question of the selective right to enforce an insurance claim in another country was raised. The Committee considers that the text submitted in the interests of the consumer is intended to protect the person who is causing injury to the vehicle, whether materially or immaterially. This is a matter of general interest under the protection of the State which prescribes compulsory car insurance for the protection of road traffic victims. The increase in premiums or insurance sums is not for the benefit of insurance companies, but for the benefit of those affected in the event of possible road accidents, which would cause injury and have the opportunity to impose greater compensation for the so-called intangible injury. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport be an appropriate basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second treatment. We also propose to adopt this Decision together with two positions, which take into account the comments made by the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Council, and to examine and take due account of the comments of the Slovenian Insurance Association at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the comments made by the individual members of the Committee who have been specifically exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't have a written application, so I'm asking representatives of the parliamentary groups if they can come forward. No one wants to discuss it. Good. Then I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? There are no written applications for the debate, so, of course, the debate, as usual, will be limited to 5 minutes. There's no interest in debate. I therefore conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions of the parent working body. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal of a law amending and supplementing the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport, first of all, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Does anyone want to discuss this position, this decision? Nobody. Since there is no further debate, I conclude it and move on to a vote on the proposed decision. Let's vote, please. We've got some problems, I see, with a conclusion, 39 of us are present. I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall and to try this point today, I think, in this morning's work. Please, colleagues and colleagues in the vicinity, join us so there's not enough of us yet. [[...]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to a vote on the proposed decision. Let's vote again, please. Of the 51 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The debate and the vote on positions follow. We are moving on to a debate on the positions prepared by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Who wants a word? Who wants to discuss these two points of view? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a full vote on the proposal for views - that is, on both positions. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 members present, 44 voted in favour, and no one opposed the Members. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the views are adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank you for participating at this point. We're moving to the next five. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Economic Zones Act - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and we are moving on to the first reading. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That proposal of the law placed the mother labour body on its agenda and, in fact, without a specific discussion, supported both the rapid procedure and the proposed content by adopting an amendment to Article 1, which is editorial in nature, in order to define more precisely the relevant concepts. We propose to the National Assembly that the amendment be considered and adopted in a swift manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? We don't have a written application. Please, who wants a word from the parliamentary groups? [[It's not.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since I have not received any written application for the debate, I will limit all further discussions to 5 minutes. Do Members and Members want a word? Excuse me, Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, I regret that there are no government representatives here, especially because it is a matter of swift procedure and because it is a law that is important. Because this is a change that is supposed to follow the need to adapt European legislation. And in the light of that fact, it would indicate that there would be a government representative here. President, I have a procedural proposal to suspend this meeting for a few minutes and to continue the post-dinner session until then, and to invite a government representative to attend the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Since it's 12.55, I'm closing the morning part, we'll continue at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u90	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, we are continuing our afternoon work. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 10th meeting of 21.11.2001, France Onion for the afternoon part of the meeting, Dr. Michael Brejc for the afternoon part of the session and Lydia Majnik, is not excused between us. Since we will be able to detect presence, please insert the cards and press the quorum key. We're detecting a presence. There's supposed to be 37 of us in attendance, and I think there's more of us in the hall. That's why I'm asking your attention. With the manual count, we found that there are 50 of us in the hall, so I would like to ask your attention again. Next time we figure out the presence. There are 50 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In this morning's work, we suspended the consideration of item 5 of the agenda, namely the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act, a rapid procedure. Members and Members shall have the floor. There are representatives and representatives of the government among us, so I welcome them. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you. First of all, I welcome the representative of the government. It would also be appropriate for you to explain certain things to us. Otherwise, I have also participated in the coordination of this bill, but I have never received satisfactory answers to the following facts. Three years ago, we passed the Economic Zones Act. We have, of course, accepted it at a time and in the full course of preparation for entry into the European Union, and in the full course of adapting our legislation to the European Union. So meet the "acqui." We have proposed and voted on a proposal submitted by colleague Anderlič at the time to introduce into our then free zones the benefits that have been characteristic of economic zones across Europe and have followed the Irish model. Ireland is already [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u92	Mr. Yuri, if you'll excuse me. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Already in the morning’s work, it was almost impossible for speakers to discuss with one another because of the conversations you have with each other. Please, it's very hard to discuss, sometimes you don't even hear your thoughts. Therefore, I ask you to do so outside the plenary session if you have anything to talk about. Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you, Vice President. So, of course, at the time we introduced certain benefits in this new law, which were already a practice in one of the members of the European Union - this is Ireland, which has already had such a zone, even in force for 30 years. Ireland became a member of the then European Economic Community in 1973, and nevertheless retained such arrangements. No one, as far as I know, forced her, of course, to change that. We were convinced, those who advocated the law, that this time we would be able to regulate these benefits in our legislation, thus, of course, encouraging the growth of entrepreneurship in new regulated economic zones for a period of 10 years. Now that three years have passed, the government is proposing to amend the law in order to ensure that certain benefits are not eliminated by all certain benefits or reliefs. In these zones there are some companies and companies that, in the belief that these benefits will last for so many years, have also invested some money, and today, of course, in the middle of the game, we somehow change the rules. I am aware that we have also promised the European Union that this benefits, as explained in the proposal to amend the law, to conclude and to close the chapters. However, I do not understand how the fact that we were unable to negotiate at least some transitional time when we could still draw these benefits, let us say until we entered the European Union, or at least partially ease the effect that these companies will feel when these benefits end. Clearly, these efforts have not been or have not produced the desired results, and today we are about to adopt this law because it will benefit us in closing the chapter. I am, of course, advocating that we comply with the European Union as soon as possible and that we are fully prepared. Finally, what we did last year in this direction was also rewarded by a very good assessment by the European Commission. However, I am also giving thought to the government, and my colleague Marshic and I will also table a proposal by the amendment to set me up, to adopt the law, and to set a deadline for its validity, from 2003. In order to meet, not least, the assurances we have given to the European Union, when we have assured and promised that this law will be aligned with the "acquis", of course, and with the need to close the chapters by December 2002. I think such a compromise would be acceptable. If the government is willing to do so, I will thank her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Would you like a representative of the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say the following to this question, Commissioner Yuri. It is not only coordination with the acquis of the European Union and with regard to the establishment of our basic negotiating points with the European Commission on our entry into the European Union that is why the government has proposed a change to the Economic Zones Act. We must be honest that already some other, internationally signed and valid agreements and treaties and approaches of our country, such as the World Trade Organization, the Marrakesh Agreement and the like, are essentially conditioned by our consistent conduct, which is based on the fact that it is contrary to the principles of free competition and State interference in the economy, to the extent that the State provides only on the basis of export criteria some additional relief to certain legal entities in this way to gain a comparative advantage over other entities on a single market or also on international markets. That's the basic essence of it. It is true that the development of negotiations, relations with regard to negotiating points and with regard to our own negotiations with the European Union has also evolved to this limit, that the government has ruled, although it has originally proposed the termination of certain of these provisions and the amendment of these certain provisions by the end or the beginning of 2003. However, we have our own judgment because we are on an extremely good track to conclude very difficult Chapter 6 on competition and state aid, so that we can complete this chapter and thus be in a significantly better position than the other candidates for entry into the European Union, as Slovenia could conclude negotiations in this area between the first and also this year. However, we basically have to say that economic zones will continue to exist. Even after our actual entry into the European Union, we do not change the basic purpose of economic zones, and this is a certain tax incentive for economic activity in economic zones. However, we are changing the most controversial criteria, which is the criterion of the main exporter. For this is contrary to all those described above, I would say to the international agreements and to our approaches. Thus, explicitly in Article 1, the current law now explicitly states that it gives economic activity in economic zones to legal persons until the end of 2009. This provision shall not be amended in any way. The criteria under which users and those operating in these zones may request or propose and require certain tax reliefs are changed each year. Tax reliefs remain in force, of course on the basis of new criteria, but I would like to support this with something else. After many coordinations, interviews, the government also conducted a series of interviews, mainly with the users of both economic zones, both in Maribor and in Cyprus, and also with some other potential stakeholders interested in economic zones, and on the basis of all these wishes, as you, Mr Member, have also addressed a proposal or initiative to extend the matter for at least another year, we have explicitly stated in the proposed Article 6 of these amendments to the Act and in some way allowed these tax exemptions from those already-initiated investments from past business, when the law in force has been in force, to continue in the following year, and so that they do not stop and these users will not lose this option. It is true, however, that, if I may say so, we have laid down, somehow, a change in the law, in order to enter into force with 1.1.2002, that the passage in the transitional provision of this tax relief should also be withdrawn for one more year on the basis of the investments already made in this year and in the past. In fact, this achieves exactly what users in their aspirations, demands and wishes have mediated in order to essentially shift economic effects for one year. So I think that this solution has, of course, gone to the benefit of the current users. I would like to point out that, for example, in an interview with potential users of the Maribor zone, which has not actually come to life, they also estimate that all other forms, in particular from State aid schemes, are significantly better in economic and financial terms than is currently the current solution, as it is obviously not used as such. In this respect, the government is responding to this initiative, to the extent possible, even to those legal entities operating in the economic zone, particularly in Cyprus, so that they can benefit from this for another year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the individual articles to which the amendments have been tabled. We do not have a review of the amendments, so we will be assisted by the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on page 3, on the last page of the amendment to Article 1. I therefore give Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 for discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? First Mr. Auschwitz, then Mr. Marshich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. First, Madam President, I would like to point out that another amendment has been tabled before the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your warning, Mr. Auschwitz. Before we go to the consideration of Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article, we are obliged to hold a further debate and decision on the A1 Article, whose proposal is a group of Members with the first signed Ajšč Jožet and this amendment is on the table and, of course, we have just received, you do not yet have on the bench, the amendments they have proposed, including the group of Members, with the first signed Dorian Marshic. So, of course, we'll wait until you get those amendments on the bench. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u99	Madam Vice-President, I propose a procedural proposal, namely a 10-minute recess, to allow the services to reproduce the amendment you mentioned and mentioned earlier in Aurelio Juri's discussion. By proposing a 10-minute break, including for consultation, perhaps an additional and reproduction of this text.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. If we agreed, we could have a discussion on A1 and then we could have your amendments in 10 minutes. Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new A1 article, as I have already said, which is proposed by the group of Members with the first signed Jožet Ašić. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. You have before you an amendment that does not interfere with the area, which is why today we are amending the Economic Zones Act. Therefore, it is without prejudice to the part which discusses facilitation or the reasons why it is necessary to bring the law into line with European Union law, the Markin Agreement and the other agreements signed. When I listened to the Secretary of State who responded to Mr Aurelia Juria's debate, I found that it was even more clear that this amendment that I had tabled was actually very justified and necessary. The Economic Zones Act will continue to apply and the zones will remain as they have been before and could also be new. In these areas, activity will be carried out, of course in accordance with the interests of entrepreneurs, businesses and other individuals who wish to create a new activity in certain areas, including through State incentives. And since the existing law that we have adopted in this Parliament in the previous term has provided for the possibility of establishing economic zones only where the port or airports are adapted or engaged in activities, as the law says, in international trade. I think it is also entirely justified that these options should also be allowed at border international crossings and border crossings, which are also active in international trade. If we extend this option, then we will also give the possibility of establishing economic zones in certain areas of Slovenia, which are today developing extremely problematic - I am thinking in particular of the whole area of the so-called southern borders or the borders between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia. Also in explaining this amendment to the law, the legislator states that the law is intended primarily as a proponent of state aid and focuses mainly on regional development and employment promotion. I can say with certainty and all the data confirm that the southern border is entirely, except perhaps coastal work, the one that is lagging behind in Slovenia and where the highest unemployment rates are recorded. Of course, the question of whether this amendment and the adoption of this amendment would open a series of new economic zones, which may also be problematic, is to be answered by law itself in the part which we do not change and which speaks, how economic zones are established and organised, what are the conditions for the establishment of an economic zone, and also that the economic zone can be established by the founders, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that, if the amendment is adopted, it will be possible, for example, in Gruškov, Jelshanah, Dobova, Obrežje, in this area, where future maximum border crossings with the Republic of Croatia and so-called border checkpoints, and where all customs, inspection and other services are to be organised, to also establish such a zone, provided that interest is expressed, and if the government agrees to do so. The adoption of this amendment does not in any way mean that we have established any new zone, but we are giving, opening the way for all works in Slovenia that have roughly equal conditions, and I do not see any reason that at international border crossings or rail crossings, in the event of the economic interest of individuals of such zones should also be established in the future. I am convinced that the arguments are sufficiently valid and that this amendment would suggest acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. On this initiative, I would like to say some facts on this amendment table, as explained by Mr Auschwitz. Look. In the first place, border crossings in a narrow sense, of course, are not basically intended to establish and encourage, I would say, some production, processing activities, in fact some economic activity and the related possibilities of new employment. Basically, the border crossings know what they are intended for, so also in the amendment, I would say, probably "lapsus ingue" is not necessary, there must already be an international railway border crossing, etc. But it's not that important. Employment, for example, in such an area will, to the greatest extent possible, depend on whether companies will gain profits in the implementation of this economic activity and thus create employment opportunities and all the rest, but not only to help me, in essence, with such criteria, with tax incentives, to help businesses that in one way or another, only to increase their profits after taxation. This is essentially contrary to these basic principles of State aid. Thus, State aid is not given to those who have a profit that achieves good, positive results, but to those who are just beginning the economic life cycle; therefore, it is intended to help new investments, because, at that time, we know that the cost of doing business is the greatest, the life cycle is just beginning, does not give all the good, positive effects in the management and the like, and also in order to be able to employ new people, because it is in the first part of this life cycle that the cost of production and the problem is essentially great. It is certainly much better, and therefore in our country we have the State Aid Act to encourage directly with State aid those economic operators that start this cycle, i.e. to encourage, to assist in the implementation of investments and this additional employment, but not directly by giving tax reliefs to those who are already making profits, as I said, and thus only increasing the profit after taxation. Tax reliefs are also the most untransparent form of state aid, not just for us, not only in the European Union, in the market economies at all, because they can to a very large extent cover this basic purpose. And that is why, if I may say so, they are not equal to all other legal entities. If we follow such ideas and initiatives that appear in Slovenia and are also in these talks, then tomorrow we can expect initiatives to take place in Kozianski, Prekmurje, anywhere else, because it is not now just a border crossing, that it is a port, that is an international port or an international airport and so on. Such initiatives have also been and these ideas are also present. That's why we have the State Aid Act, we have the state aid scheme to ensure regional development. And it was during our interviews with the representatives of Maribor and the Maribor Economic Zone that we saw together that these schemes were actually unused, that they were not fully known in these regions. The Ministry of Finance was precisely the one that made all the materials available to these potential users, the support to actually re-examine these options, because they themselves saw that they could gain significantly more, I would say, positive financial effects, like the pubs, in a way that the economic zone as such could be reintroduced in a new way. Last but not least, it takes a lot of investment, in the clean infrastructure of the economic zone, to create an economic zone. It's about fences, it's about the customs service that needs to be paid, it's about certain other professional services, and it's a big question if it makes sense to do that, if we have state aid schemes where funds are available, where transparent forms are available, and so on and so on. Last but not least, if the government were to follow this amendment, of course, we should have received prior consent from the State Aid Commission in order to explicitly give permission for a form of State aid such as extending the area of economic zones to international border crossings. However, I must say that we do not have this, and probably not from this Commission, because of the well-known criteria and principles of state aid, we would not be able to obtain it in this respect. After all, if I would like to mention this, because this is the southern border, because it is with the neighbouring country of Croatia, which is not as far into the pre-accession negotiations as our country is, because it is actually starting this thorny path, and in order for someone to say, we would like to encourage international foreign investors, etc. Look. The assessment of the study, which was carried out internationally, suggests that these obstacles to Slovenia's foreign investment are not a problem of tax relief, tax incentives, tax system, and other obstacles, especially administrative and bureaucratic ones. I can also ensure that the tax environment in our country is extremely favourable to foreign investments. It's extremely affectionate. See only now that it is also running parallel and is preparing for a debate on budgetary documents, how much in recent years, as a state in fiscal cash registers, we have essentially obtained a tax on the profits of legal persons. We have an incredibly low percentage in GDP as far as our country is concerned. Not only because the tax rate is among the lowest in Europe, but also, particularly in Europe, I will not say now in the world as a whole, but mainly because of the environment in which investors or legal persons operate and where investors are taught. Finally, an extremely large tax relief of 40% for investments, which the state makes very generous and generously to all those who start an investment in fiscal year. 40% of the investment amount is simply written off, deducted from the tax base. This is why, even in our case, companies that achieve large business and tax profits, in fact, in fiscal, in budget, paid from this title, from this fiscal source very little tax on the profits of legal persons. So, all that I have said so far, the government is explicitly opposed to such an amendment because we think that it would not achieve that purpose or even encourage some other aspirations. Finally, I am obliged to point out on behalf of the Government that if we accept this or if you will accept it as a national assembly, it will open up to us again simply to a new negotiation in area six, because with this in the previous negotiating venues, when we continue to predict what would be possible or whether we will want to amend the economic zones law, and this has been coordinated when we are reopening an additional extension of this law, such as extending to international border crossings, a chapter is simply to be put in place, if it is closed or if it is to be closed, is simply impossible and we are again before that we cannot take advantage of all the hard work we have done in the negotiations. After all, that's what I have to say. We, as a country, are involved in, I would say, this action, which the European Union and the wider international community particularly want to achieve by means of a business code in this area, is essentially equivalent to that of all business operators. So, while this is not a binding document, this is, I would say, a rule of conduct that, as such as the Code, is established in the European Union, in the end, we should in fact also do an impact study, on the financial effects of such an amendment, what this would mean, now not only for that area, but also for those potential actors, but also for the rest of our country, what this would mean. I must say that, of course, we see no reason why such an amendment could in fact be attracted, so we are opposed to the content of this amendment tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u105	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, look, we are not introducing any new zones with this amendment, but we are opening up opportunities. I listened very carefully to you and found that you are practically following similar intentions as we have followed the signatories to this amendment. That is, that economic zones begin a new life cycle in an area and, of course, it opens a new perspective. I would be very difficult to speak in general, so I prefer to speak to you on a particular case, the Posavia case. The European Union's approximation process will be an extremely important border point between the so-called European Community and the Balkans. There are two new border checkpoints open between 6 and 6. And according to recent analyses of human development progress, Posavje is the region with the lowest quality of life in Slovenia. That is why this region needs a new life cycle and a new start. And the very purpose of this amendment is, to such regions, to the entire regions, and especially to the larger parts of these regions, to enable a new impetus, to enable a new perspective, and this amendment is an opportunity and nothing is prejudged. If there is a desire, if there is an economic interest, this new cycle will take effect and start if there is no interest, of course it will not. I think that the amendment needs to be looked at more broadly than you have explained, especially in this light, that regions that are close and will receive some changes due to the introduction of the Schengen border, even in this way, are opposed in the form of some state measures or options, not least to the establishment of economic zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision. On the amendment to the new A1 Article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes to 10. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the new Article A1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision, namely to vote on the amendment first. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 45 present. I think there's more of us in the hall. Therefore, I ask you to allow the validity of the vote by pressing one of the buttons. Secondly, we vote on Article 1 in full. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. On the proposal of Mr Marsic, I hereby grant a 10-minute recess, which will be continued at 15.21 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u107	After a 10-minute break, at Mr. Marshic's request, we will continue our work. We need to establish presence first, so I'd like to ask your attention. We're picking up the presence! 49 Members and Members are present, the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the three amendments to this Article. The candidates are a group of Members with the first signed Dorian Marshic. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. As first signed with a group of Members, I have tabled amendments to Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Act on Supplements to the Law on Economic Zones. The reasons for the amendment of these amendments, or the purpose of the amendments introduced by these amendments, go in this direction in order to translate the implementation of this Act into 1.1.2003 instead of 1.1.2002 as proposed by the law tabled by the Government. Our view is that the Economic Zones Act is intended to ensure the stability of business conditions and practically in these economic zones and attract foreign investors and additional commodity flows. However, the law submitted by the Government substantially changes these operating criteria in economic zones and thus reduces the expected tax concessions for users of economic zones. This is why we stress that there are many companies operating in economic zones in Maribor and Koper that provide both transhipment and activity, both for Luka Koper and for the Maribor airport and these companies, of course, have also invested a great deal in their activities in the economic zones. We are also asked whether the amendment of the law, as envisaged in such a short time, would raise questions of liability for business partners, who, of course, in good faith, would count that these conditions, as set out in the original version of the law, would apply for the entire ten-year period, and, of course, the question of the application of compensation claims to the State in the amount of invested funds and income lost. This, of course, justifies these amendments and I ask you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u110	Honorable National Assembly! First, on behalf of the Government, I would like to define myself to what is now a Member, Mr Marsic, which is the amendment to Article 8. Undoubtedly, it is not correct to argue that business entities that, due to the enforcement of such legal solutions, will achieve some business damage and that this law has provided them with some of the expected business benefits "per promotion". That's certainly not true. Earlier in the opening part of my address, I pointed out that the law explicitly states in Article 1 that the law ensures the economic operation of these users of economic zones, but not the simple and direct and non-selective use of tax facilities, since certain criteria must be met, the conditions for this to be applied at all. Companies that normally invest in our country in general have one way or another, I would say, comparatively, as I said earlier, a favourable subsidy or a 40% relief for the country's investment in the current fiscal year. In addition, this Economic Zones Act gives these zone users an additional opportunity. So it's not something that a priori would take away, but every year you have to prove again what an investment will be, or it's enough for the other criteria that you can then benefit from tax relief. When we talked about this with the zone users, especially the biggest ones, just so, professionally, how will they possibly define business damage if we ignore the legal fact that tax reliefs are not provided on the basis of the past fiscal year, but only something that will prove and so on, they themselves did not know the answer [[I am talking about the section of the debate]] . So, it's not true that there's simply some business damage in advance. In this part, the Government cannot attach the argument of the amendment to Article 8. Finally, I would like to point out that it is perfectly normal for anyone other than the legal and economic entity in our country to question the constitutionality of any additional such relief from this context. So he's going to say why I'm acting, I don't know, in any part, in Kozian, in Cel, in Murska Sobota, elsewhere, because some other criterion doesn't provide me with even or equal competition rules, principles and so on. But of course we're talking hypothetically about this, because that can happen. All of this has been taken into account when we have proposed appropriate solutions to be - and therefore we also have the State Aid Act, which seeks to achieve this by encouraging investment, by promoting new employment and by doing so, for example, by promoting regional development, to help entities, as I said, at the beginning of the life cycle, but not to businesses that are profit-generating, to be given additional tax relief. I would say that I do not know if it is acceptable for this country, even for future joint development. Clearly, with the other articles or amendments to Article 6 that have been tabled, I must say again that the Government expressly opposes this amendment. It points out that it makes it impossible for us to conclude negotiations in area 6, because it is competition and state aid, because we are just before the conclusion, because we are the only candidate country so far, because we have indisputably, even with the negotiators, I would not like to quote here all these faxes, the messages that we have exchanged, which can hardly wait to hear that we can close this chapter if we can change the law as normal, not now because of our entry into the European Union. Let me say that, if the solutions to these proposed amendments were adopted, then it is totally contrary to Article 6 of the proposed amendment, because this Article is precisely for the purpose of somehow allowing the users of economic zones, the financial economic effects of the previous investments, from 2000 and 2001, then this would mean that these amendments would be adopted in order to achieve double additional benefits. So, twice the matter would essentially be complemented by each other, which would, of course, be totally unjustifiable. Of course, in this case, I can say that, of course, we will require further coordination and, by the third reading, the government is already forecasting amendments to the third reading. However, I would like to say, additionally, which also refers to the economic zone in Maribor. Clearly, in interviews with potential founders and users of economic zones in Maribor, they themselves saw in the debate that it is not true that the laws and solutions so far allow them what is here to talk about. Even if I may use the statements, the content of the interview by the President of the Administration, Luke Koper, as one of the users in the Saturday Annex of Dela, where he finally notes that, of course, these economic zones for that good purpose, when the law was adopted, did not fully come to life or did not achieve their purpose. That is why, of course, we later passed the State Aid Act, which in another way, a transparent way, a more consistent way, guarantees what began with the initial well-intentioned proposal when this Economic Zones Act was actually implemented in our country. So I would like to make it clear that the adoption of such amendments would, of course, make it impossible for us to negotiate and that this national assembly has, in particular, in mind, in addition to the economic substantive solutions or consequences it would have for the normal operating conditions of all economic operators in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. In this case, my opinion is that the explanation given by the government representative is correct. Of course, the key arguments are not that we need to adapt to join the European Union, but that we will have a normal market system, an entity. That's why it's important. Because any interference that degrades this market system in such a harsh way is not appropriate, so we need this, such a system. If there is anything, we have passed a state aid law, so this system would be marketable, for us, for our market operators, so as not to prefer where it is not necessary. If there's any preference, it has to be regional. By regional principle, but we must not, we must, of course, be careful with what criteria and instruments. The second is of course sectoral. And the third aspect is, of course, to look at the labor force, the one that is deprived. And that's the basis of the law, the basic law takes that into account. In this area too, the labour market is provided with normal conditions. In this sense, I am also thinking that such amendments do not affect, do not help to resolve the functioning of the market. In the good sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u114	President, I apologize if I once again propose to take another 10-minute break before deciding on the amendments. Because yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u115	Mr. Marshich, this is a two-time break on the same matter. Since you have already requested a 10-minute recess on behalf of the parliamentary group, including to prepare a decision on the amendment, this is why leave was allowed. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you. You know, as proposers of this amendment, we have agreed that, in the light of the new explanations made by the government representative, we will consult before deciding on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u117	On behalf of the Joint List Group. Since it was a 10-minute break and it was short, I'm adjourning the session for 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 3:46.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u118	We're picking up the presence! 49 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. To the representative of the group of Members of the Joint List, I ask the representative whether he wishes to clarify the decisions. [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 6. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 34. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Since all three amendments to the other articles are related to each other, only these are irrelevant. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles A1 and 1 have been adopted in the second reading of the draft law. I ask qualified candidates or they want to table an amendment to the open article. Government representative, Mr. Koncan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u119	Madam President, honourable Members and Members. On behalf of the Government, I propose that this item should be discontinued, i.e. in the third reading of the Economic Zones Act, because the Government is predicting the amendment and I propose that tomorrow we continue the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. At the proposal of a qualified proposer, as the proposer of the law and the amendments, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I interrupt at this point the consideration of the law pending the preparation of the amendment in third reading. Thank you very much to the government representatives for participating at this point. And we're moving on to 7. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Old Age Security and Social Benefits Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I very much welcome the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia among us. Does the representative of the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mrs. Alenka Kovšca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u121	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. The Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act has been under review since 1999. New proposals for solutions, based on public research, professional proposals, European recommendations and consensus, emerged during the first reading and the previous text of the law, to direct the country's action towards more vulnerable and those families with multiple children. The basic objectives of the law were: to regulate parental protection in a single law, to regulate and harmonise rights in such a way that those children and families who need State aid and measures more fully, to preserve and upgrade those rights that bring new quality are particularly stressed by the more equal role of both parents in the upbringing and protection of children. As regards the latter, the law is also very demanding at the implementation level, as parents agree after a new way of implementing parental protection, they can exchange rights, and some rights can be exercised jointly. The leave for care and protection may also be extended to old parents and other persons under special conditions. In addition, the law introduces new rights: the right to parental leave for a period of 90 days, increases and prolongs maternity leave and protects the child under special conditions, introduces adoption leave to the new law, introduces the right to pay contributions to mothers who decide to work with reduced working hours, increases the nominal amount of parental allowance, increases the nominal amount of assistance when giving birth to a child, increases by 10% the amount of the child allowance for children living in single-parent families by 20% increases the amount of the child allowance for children who are not enrolled in kindergarten, and introduces a new allowance for a large family, nominally increases the amount of the child allowance for care and protection of the child, increases the right to supplement and protects the child with a serious mental disability, introduces a minimum wage for a child who needs to pay for a special income. Thus, the Government proposes a series of new rights and measures that are complementary to the present, including for Europe the high right to parental benefits and family benefits, and thus implements that part of the resolution on the basis of family policy in the Republic of Slovenia concerning the material situation of families. In particular, it should be mentioned that the rights under the law are not only comparable to those in the European Union countries, but even exceed them, both with regard to the rights of fathers, with regard to the rights of children in need of special care and protection, with regard to maternity leave and compensation, and with regard to the care and protection of the child, while extending their leave, adoption leave. We can say that this law circles that part of the country's policy towards children and families, which in turn means protecting maternity, parenthood and social adjustments directed at families and the more vulnerable, especially children. In reality, the share of parental protection and family benefits is increasing by 6 billion in this year. Overall, the share of the 1995 child allowances increased from 0.5 GDP to 1.1 and the share of the rights and benefits of the new law from 1.2 GDP in 1992 to 2.19 after the 2001 estimates, when all rights under the law will be exercised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr Stanislav Brenčič, President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the government! We've reached the third reading, haven't we? At its 13th regular session, the Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons Committee discussed the draft law. Members first took note of the plausible explanation of the proposal as presented in the third reading, as had been given earlier, so I would not repeat it. However, a few words need to be said about the opinion of the secretariat, which was, as a starting point, present at the hearing. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, in its opinion, concluded that the text of the bill was prepared in accordance with Rule 181 of the Rules of Procedure and that the applicant had included all the amendments adopted in the second reading. However, the specific comments of the Secretariat relate to paragraphs 116a, 43a and 43b and 117. However, from a legal technical point of view, it was specifically pointed out that the applicant has renumbered the entire series of articles in the preparation of the third reading text and having regard to all amendments adopted in the second reading. Such labelling of articles for the implementation of the third, final stage of the adoption of the law is not entirely appropriate, as it makes transparency very difficult over articles to which amendments are allowed in the third reading. The debate stressed that some of the improvements brought by the law are very commendable and that we can all agree fully with them. In any case, there are shortcomings in marriage. Some members of the Committee did not agree with the data on the increase in gross domestic product for transfers to families, but rather on the basis of the fact that the financial resources under the overall budget for social transfers were actually falling. He agreed, on the basis of his arguments, also a representative of the family initiative. After the discussion, the members of the Committee were appointed to the amendments. The Government's amendments were supported by Articles 25, 26, 34, 47, 51, 62, 79, 83, 86, 100a, 112, 115, 116 and 117. They did not support the amendments of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party by Articles 26, 62, 64, 65, 75, 112 and 113. The Committee also drafted two amendments. Articles 105 and 117. At the end of the hearing, the Committee also adopted a decision as follows: "The Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits, thirdly addressed, be adopted together with amendments supported by the Committee and amendments to the Committee." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. A nice welcome to the representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party, we support a new approach, a new law, because the law is social, European and introduces new quality into family policy. Family policy is underpinned and upgraded by new rights and, in particular, stimulates the segment that has not been stimulated so far. This is mainly the introduction of incentives for families with multiple children, that is to say with more children, and this also somehow leads to the elimination of the negative trend of decline of children in Slovenia. We are therefore of the opinion that new rights are needed for those who can also contribute in part, and I would stress here that the need for a more appropriate tax policy for this solution in the Family Receipts Act also needs to be upgraded. In the Social Democratic Party and the coalition partner of Nova Slovenije, we have also prepared certain amendments on a proposal for a text which, as the chairman of the Committee has spoken before me, has not been supported by the Committee, but we insist on them and we believe that the existing text can be improved slightly in these segments. We would also point out that the transitional provisions of the law provide for a relatively slow dynamic in the application of these principles. This is why we stress here that this is somewhat questionable or we call on the government to consider some measures more quickly to introduce new methods and techniques. We will support the proposed text in the Social Democratic Party. At the same time, of course, we will also support all the amendments that we are making together with New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. I warmly welcome the representatives of the Ministry and the other fellow Members and Members of Parliament. The adoption of the law on parental protection and family benefits in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is supported. Thus, one law will now regulate the whole area of parental protection and family benefits. The law also represents significant progress in the implementation of family policy, as the rights of families with multiple children and socially disadvantaged families will be better guaranteed. It is also particularly important to establish a more equal role for a father who, at the time of the birth of a child, will be given the opportunity to take a paternity leave with a compensation period of 15 days, an advanced decision compared to the European situation and in accordance with the European Parental Leave Directive. In doing so, we are aware that only the legal basis for the wider exercise of the right will not be sufficient. We are certainly confident that this will increase the number of fathers who will take advantage of this right and will be greater than before, since in 2000 only 0.96% of fathers benefited from parental leave in Slovenia. Of course, fathers with compensation from the State have the option of using parental leave for up to 90 days. In doing so, we estimate that it will be necessary to lead and start projects for wider promotion, awareness-raising and awareness of the positive aspects of the use of paternity leave, both in fathers themselves and in employers, in order to avoid bullying the beneficiaries of this right, or perhaps obstructing their career path on return to work. Another important novelty is the possibility that one of the parents can decide to break the working relationship due to care and protection of a severely mentally or physically affected child at the level of the minimum wage. This opens the way for parents to decide for themselves how to care for and protect their child who is more vulnerable, and even if their desire is fulfilled, they are given the opportunity to decide for themselves. The law therefore brings a number of other changes and rights, such as adoption leave, a selective approach to children's allowance, allowances for a large family, etc., which has already been mentioned, and all of this will contribute to significantly better protection of the family and its socio-economic situation. The share that will be gradually increased in the social product structure by 2005 when the fully established rights, as the state devotes to the family policy segment, are almost tripled, and this seems to us to be an extremely large and important contribution of the country in such a sensitive area as family policy. That is why we fully support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS + Slovenian People's Party's SKD will be presented by Mr Stanilsav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, once again. Well, in the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the law as a whole, which, with much discussion and various arguments, came into first reading, and then with some substantive changes of the turbulent two-step second treatment, we support as a good law that we see through the ability of the State that what can be given in terms of rights and incentives for parenthood, money benefits to families. In the parliamentary group, we are aware of the importance and urgency of the fullest possible consideration of family policy, including all possible benefits, if we want to change the trend that we have in our society and also in the European Union where we enter. This is an excessive increase in the proportion of the elderly. However, we are also aware of the reality in terms of the financial capacity of a country which, in addition to direct measures for the benefit of the family, needs to take strong care of the necessary infrastructure, which indirectly links families' expectations and has, together with certain individual rights based on programmes, even more or more of an influence on parents than the law on parenting and family benefits itself, to decide on the birth of children and to raise more children. That is why we also support and substantiate in the concept of the law the established dependence on the amount of certain family benefits on the property status or income status of the family. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are pleased that, on the basis of our firm efforts to introduce an allowance for the protection and care of a child to parents who do not have a child involved in organised care, it has already been maintained in the final text of the law in the second reading, even if it is to a lesser extent and a longer period of introduction than you might have wanted or would be somewhat more comparable to the supplement received by the parents in the event of the child being placed in organised care or kindergarten. We are also pleased with a number of measures that introduce additional incentives in the area of family policy and parental protection. However, we can say that, in addition to the rights of remuneration and the parental benefits brought to the family by this law, we should rely only on the proportion of the resources that the State or municipalities devote to parents for the care and protection of children in kindergartens, that material support to the family is great and, comparable to other national economies of the European Union, really high and sometimes one would wonder what is then needed to do in order to change the trend in our society, which I mentioned earlier, or turn to a better or at least establish a balance. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the committee of the adopted amendments and the law as a whole, believing that this is the most we can do for this area by means of this law. However, we are convinced that it is and will be necessary to change in the near future, if nothing else, to the benefit of parents or insurers who have, nurture and support children, to change the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance, of course, as I said, in favour of those who care, nurture and raise and support one or more children. This is, sooner or later, a need that we will have to address as a society if we want to employ more parents in the sense of creating incentives for employers, or allow them to work more easily at the expense of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Drobnič, a respected colleague and a respected colleague, you may not feel that, in the case of at least ten Members chatting with their neighbour, the atmosphere for a speaker in the Chamber, according to my assessment, is inappropriate. It is my job to ensure, in accordance with the rules of procedure, that everyone who discusses is given adequate peace. So, again, if you want to do interviews with your colleagues, you can do it in the lobby in front of the hall. Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u131	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! On behalf of New Slovenia, allow me to present an opinion on the law on parental protection and family benefits. I will start just for the reasons why we tabled the amendments, i.e. the Coalition Slovenia. Because families have lost an annual average of 13 billion dollars in value added taxes or other tax laws in one way or another. Because there is no constitutional decision to take into account in the payment of income and allowances at least the minimum cost per family member in the case of children. Because a constitutional decision has not been implemented with regard to recognised facilities for adopted children. If we take this into account, at least the things I have just stated, then amendments are more than necessary. We also relied on the adopted resolution on family policy, because the parties or members of the national assembly, of course not in this session, but in the previous one, adopted it. And what is it that you would specifically point out? You're going to say that I'm boring you with this topic. It was said that it would go into the field of active employment policy. I'll do it again. [[...]] I asked yesterday what it was like to implement an active employment policy for one of these disadvantaged groups, i.e. people with disabilities. And I was told, or I know it's frozen and there's some programs. Why? Because there's no money. Otherwise, the government representative couldn't say why not. No fundamental right shall be exercised. Because there's no money. This means that there will certainly be no money for parental subsidies, because it was just said to be enough for the electorate. Reduction of maternity leave. In fact, this will happen when the Labour Relations Act is amended. Coalition parties in the previous session have united in the length of maternity leave. We have also proposed to this extent. There are obviously no more elections now, but there is no need to do so. So, something that's already been adopted. Father's leave. We agree to introduce him. This is also in line with the European Union directives and with a modern view to responsible parenting. What, though, does such a vacation mean if the beneficiary is financially struck? If he goes to the hospital by accident after this use of his leave, he won't get a hospital like he did if he worked. Because the basis for calculating contributions is the minimum wage. Most have a different basis for paying the hospital's absence. That's what's out there. Therefore, it is unlikely that there is any point in us making provisions that are not well thought out. And they'll mean a blow to the family. However, I find it difficult to imagine how my father will take maternity leave or parental leave, with at least one salary, usually more than half or at least half of the family benefits. The number of family members will increase. I don't know. I don't believe that. The universal children's allowance, what has already been agreed on, is not universal to all alike. The ranges are the same as in the scale proposed by the government coalition. However, over-average incomes shall provide at least a minimum symbolic amount to raise and care for children and lead them to be at work and cover all schooling costs, not to mention, for them to become taxpayers. At least that is what we would, at least at this declaration level, deserve with a symbolic amount. Appendix for those involved in public organised protection. Here, the government has found a solution, but in the context of the previous Child categorisation Act, we have lost the basic basis for determining the level of impact on which all social transfers are based. So that seems like a pretty good solution to us. Coordination of compensations. This is again a chapter on how they will coordinate, either with the growth of living costs or something else. Here we expect a constant backlog of parental benefits or benefits; for some small ones, for some more. Entry into force. It's the most controversial. Does it make sense to adopt a law whose rights are realized in 2003, 2004, 2005 and so on?? It's just paint people. It makes sense that there is a time limit for the State to prepare itself for the proper implementation of the law. Otherwise, let us accept it when appropriate funding is available. Everything is set to 2003 and 2004. But when we look at the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, then the bright future comes. An allowance for those who are not included in public subsidised protection will only be symbolic, for those who are the most socially advantageous standing families will be about 500 to 600 tolars. I don't know if it's gonna pay off, the virans write and pay them off. I don't know. That'll make sense. This will be more work than benefit itself. That's more funny. And that's why we've proposed at least 30 percent of this, and I think we're too little. I think we should set this scale differently. That's a smile. In short, I wanted to warn or in New Slovenia we wanted to draw attention to the integral issue of not looking at just this law. Let us also see the Income Act, the Value Added Tax Act, the Tax Act, other tax laws and constitutional decisions. When we look at all of this, let the matter be clear and so will our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Danica Simšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Minister, Secretary of State and other co-workers of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, the United List of Social Democrats assesses the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits, which is before us in the third reading as a very important law. It is a law that you have adopted, if I may say so, two generations of parliamentarians, two parts of Parliament. It is a law that has been dealt with or adopted by a threefold composition of the government, and it is a law that is actually based on the family policy strategy adopted in the first Parliament in that country. This is a very important law, which we can discuss with different perspectives and give him a lot of critical words, but it must be made very clear that this law is being implemented, if, in part, with some delays due to the extremely difficult tasks given to the Ministry in determining income, in compliance with all the very clearly defined criteria, which we consider to be very important in this law, so that the criteria here are clear that they are respected and taken into account for the amount that this country will devote to all forms of family and child protection, which already amount to almost 2% of the gross social product, as stated in billions, 80 billion, for example, round. This is an amount that is not reached by almost any single ministry. The budget of the Ministry of Health alone is almost 6 times lower than the amount that this country has decided to adopt in order to provide for families, parents and care for the upbringing and growth of children. In view of the many times we speak in our country, the need to look at the future and the specific amounts, we believe that this is the law that is doing so. So it is reversed in the future and respect for family and opportunities for family development. And there's something else. In the family, in fact, the family is that segment in our opinion in a society that touches every law. And so much more important is that the law and the solutions in this law are so delicate that, in view of the changed circumstances in which the family is found, it can help the family quickly. Of course, there are some things that are likely to need to be upgraded further in other legislation. However, if I may conclude, in the Joint List Group we fully support the law and believe that it is not only a small step for the family and the country, but in fact a very large and important step, both for the family and for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We have heard representatives of the parliamentary groups. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since I have not received written applications for the debate, the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 20.11.2001. I am putting two amendments to Article 25 to the debate, both of which are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all on the amendment to Article 25 under order number 1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We vote on the amendment to Article 25 under order number 2. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 26; under order number 1, the amendment of the two parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia and the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, is under order number 2 of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u135	Just for a little while. Having the possibility of a one-year leave in our law would therefore become an option under this law. Those entitled to leave could also opt for shorter leave. Therefore, I see no reason not to adopt such a provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes to 10. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 34. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments of the government to Article 47. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u137	Respectable. The previous text states the second paragraph, one of the parents who cares for and protects a child who needs special care and the right to work for a shorter period of time. He doesn't set the criteria when, how. The amendment of the government, however, says that only those with severe mental impairment and a difficult-to-moving child. What does that mean? This means that all those who have Mongoloids or severely mentally affected children, but are accidentally physically healthy, are not being physically obstructed, will not come into this category because it is "and". Or those who have tetraplegics, that is to say a child who has a defect, perhaps from a severe birth in the back of the neck, a complete tetraplegic will also turn out to be because it is "and hard to move" or both criteria have to be met. I don't think that would be fair. That is why I would suggest that the original doctrine remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because not Mrs. Flowers Zalokar Orazem, go ahead. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u139	I request a recess on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group for five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u140	Before making a decision? We'll have a debate first. If there is no one else to discuss, I give the Liberal Democracy Group a five-minute recess. We'll continue at 4:36 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u141	Your Honor! The time for consultation is up. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. We're going to have a presence, so I'm asking you to take your seats. We're detecting a presence. There are 54 Members and Members present; we are final and we can decide. I ask the representative of the Liberal Democracy Group, does he wish to clarify his views? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. At that time we found that in fact, in this amendment, as has been found, there was some sort of mistake regarding the word "in" or "or" [[?]] . After the consultation, including with government representatives, we agreed that they would clarify this error and also make editorial corrections in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 193 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposer, this is the Government, shall have the possibility to withdraw or amend the amendment until the beginning of the vote. That's why I'm asking representatives of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Kovsca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I'd like to explain that it's right in the good text to correct the word "or" here. Undoubtedly, however, it is a editorial error, as the text refers to Article 83 of this Law, which contains the same text with the word 'or'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. So the proponents change the amendment under order number 1 in the last sentence - "in mental development..." instead of the word "in" in "or" - "...hard to find a child in motion". We move to the vote, first on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 51. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 62. Under order number 1, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party with a footnote. To the extent that this will be adopted, the vote on the amendment under point 2, without object, shall be two amendments under points 2 and 3, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 21 votes against 35. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 6. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of New Slovenia's parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party to Article 64. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 37. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the same two parliamentary groups to Article 65. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 34. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the same two parliamentary groups to Article 75. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 35. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 79. Anybody want to talk? Here you go. Knock, knock, knock.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u146	Good-bye. In Article 79, the amendment of the government is somewhat embarrassing. It was a desire to set up the definition of child's disability, which is very poorly placed, first of all imperfect - that is said on disability commissions we could not assess by such definition. Second of all, she's trying to prove herself. Look. We want to prove or define when a child needs constant care, protection, help, and guidance. Because that's what the basic text says. Instead of setting a definition, we say that for children with severe mental development disorders, it is someone who needs constant care, protection, assistance and guidance. I don't know what the explanation for the definition of such a child or condition is if we say that it's difficult for someone who needs constant care to be protected. We have already put this in the previous text. The same is true for a child who is a child who is a motionless child, it is also said, "it is one who is entirely dependent on foreign aid". And that's exactly what we want to define when a child is so needing this foreign help. Finally, it is said that these are children who need special care and protection. And we want to, that's what the government wanted to define when special care is needed. In the previous text, it was conceived that it was said for children in need of special care for all 24 hours - even that diction was not ideal. However, it points to the following Article, or 116, where it is defined that it assesses this state of affairs by the Medical Commission, the Disability Commission, etc. It seems to me that in order to avoid setting criteria or evaluating these children, it can be very entangled, truly entangled, and there will be a lot of unpleasantness, severe blood and so forth. For the time being, I would suggest that the previous dictatorship remain, as the Government's proposal to Article 116 of the amendment speaks and foresees an implementing regulation to be issued by the Ministry in this direction. For the time being, let us leave this assessment and put it on the definition of disabled commissions until the Ministry issues an implementing regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u148	The government's amendment is well-meaning. And in the light of the fact that she does not have any other instruments for assessing the impact or need for special care, she simply laid down a definition in the law. As a rule, such a definition shall give rise to a status. And that's what experts do. We know how the trial is going. The implementation procedure shall be an integral part of the administrative procedure in order to ensure that the appeal and protection of rights are also possible. In this case, the definition goes directly and directly to the application of the law. And the execution of this will make it extremely difficult. So it's a good purpose, but it's going to be complicated in practice. There's probably going to be a lot of fights and there's going to be a lot of change in the law. Once again, I would like to draw attention to what I am already doing in the general debate. In order to make an avant-garde law and eliminate any labeling, it happens that in the end we have no definition. Many times, various experts called us 'don't label people, because we can't get to know them, we don't get to know them, we have to do what they can't do'. But this thinking is wrong. It takes generic thinking that all people are normal, capable, gifted, and only in exceptions will this happen. And this exception, if, of course, we apply it to the law, we have to do it through the procedure. The procedure is therefore an executive and administrative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I would like to explain that the government wanted to define which groups of children or categories or, as we say, easier. Of course, it is almost not the custom that such a definition is needed, but unfortunately we have not yet adopted a regulation on criteria for defining the type and degree of deficits, on the basis of which the drafting of the text is now ready to be addressed and accepted by the Ministry of Education, we have used the formulations, as set out in this Regulation. For the sake of clarity, who is it? Otherwise, when making comparisons with other European countries, they have very different practices, from counting according to the degree of autonomy, to the percentage of impact, to categories. Of course, it is a matter of the state to decide professionally in what way the impact is determined, but we simply could not at this moment be different from relying on the existing rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. A second solution could be found - to define, for example, two categories and by means of a sub-law, the Minister would specify more precisely the criteria for evaluation, i.e. the procedure, the measuring instruments and others, as necessary. We could then also apply the general administrative procedure, and the expert procedure could be very simple. Now, of course, we are in the third reading and it is difficult to do so. On the contrary, I am discussing the direct use of the problem, the direct use of this definition, but it would be possible to do so. We know, however, that it is not regulated in sub-laws and in other laws of Slovenia, precisely because some wanted to push all differentiations out completely, that we are all normal, that we are just some with special needs, and that is enough. Apparently it appears - and other countries have also found - that it's not enough for you to just say it, and that's the person who needs it, who has special needs. It's possible to put everything in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, you said earlier that it was ugly to categorize children. Now you want to introduce two categories - and we're where we are. But I'll back it up myself. Why? If there was a doctor on this committee, I would know exactly what kind of child needs this care because he's exactly writing to me, he's writing exactly to me inside, just the one who has IQ so much and so much, the one who can't move, and so on. So, an explanation for special care; that's how I understand it. And I think it's right that it's in there that the commissions can decide here. This is a joke, not to share children with children in the first category of disability, second and third, but here I am against it; this was your proposal in the second reading, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u156	Well, I'd like to ask you how do you imagine to evaluate a child with these criteria, a child with a difficult movemental barrier, is a motor barrier. In particular, the child has few useful movements, no independent movement is possible. Ha, when is it not possible to move on your own? There's no criteria here. Secondly, it is entirely dependent on foreign aid - what is it? That's exactly what we want to define. Next. The child may be severely disturbed by communication. It can be very disruptive, but it's not in communication. In what communication? It shall be agreed by means of non-verbal communication. This has nothing to do with motor interference. And so on. So this is, for the work of the one who will judge who will decide, and these are important things, to decide, this doctrine is useless. And the previous diction is that a child who needs special care. Okay. And it is also then in Article 116, I say again that these matters are decided by the Commission. For the time being, let the Commission decide whether the disability commission or the medical commission decides on the standard criteria it has until the Ministry adopts a sub-legislative act. I can't imagine anything else. There's no other way. If we want to, if we don't work with the shit in our pocket, we don't want it to be. But I think we all want this thing to run free.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. According to the law, of course, the Ministry must draw up a regulation, a sub-legislative act for these rights within a period of 6 months, and then the rights of compensation for lost income shall enter into force only after one year. During this time, we will also adopt and define these sub-legislative acts. But once again, I must point out that this kind of debate in Parliament is of course very professional and it is almost impossible to discuss at this level, insofar as we have a document prepared and used by the highest experts in Slovenia. We simply summarized these formulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u160	It's a matter for the government, if you don't mind. Which article states that the Minister shall lay down this procedure by means of a regulation. That is to say, as regards the exercise of rights to Article 79. If you can just help me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you. Excuse me. Thank you for your word. Article 90 states, in the third paragraph: "More precise conditions for obtaining the right to an allowance for the care of a child referred to in Article 80 of this Law and the right to partial payment for the lost income referred to in Article 84 of this Law and for the work and payment of medical commissions shall be laid down by the Minister." In addition, for all other rights as you can see, as stated in the proceedings. And here's the procedure. Since there is already a procedure for the right to care and protection, to compensation for the care and protection of the child.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u164	I don't agree because I think it would be a good idea to clear this up, because these articles are all numbered. I hope that's true. Because when I look at these articles, this article, which you just quoted, speaks of Article 80. He's holding it all together. I'm asking, I don't know the answer. I hope you know him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u165	Mrs. Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Article 84, second paragraph, states: "The right referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be exercised on the basis of the opinion of the Medical Commission."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u168	Yeah, I figured it out now. I'm good with numbers, yeah. The current 79th Article is the previous 84th Article. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u169	The amendment review also contains this information in brackets. Does anyone else want to discuss whether the dilemmas have been cleared? Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. But after all, my case isn't really cleared up. In fact, look, in this government amendment, in a text that says "it is entirely dependent on foreign aid". This is a completely new formulation that is very difficult to define. The original text says, "Who needs special care for all 24 hours of biological rhythm." But now that the matter has been more trying to be clarified in the second paragraph, I think we're probably making this more complicated. At least that's how I understand the matter. What is the definition of foreign aid? Is the help of a foreign parent, or is it something else? That question can also be asked immediately. I would really like an answer to this dilemma.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer before, then Mrs. Kovšca. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u172	I have a procedural proposal. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I request a 10-minute recess in order to agree on a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. If you allow us, as we have done before, to close the debate, let us clear something up and then 10 minutes before the decision. Thank you very much. Mrs. Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u174	In the second reading, we have already reasoned in the debate on Mr Šuštaršič's proposal to this article that it is necessary to define what 24 hours of biological rhythm is, however, even more precisely. As a government, we have committed ourselves to making this definition more precise for the third reading as well. There's actually a more precise definition here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on the proposal of the New Slovenia Group of Members to consult before the decision is taken. I'm giving you a 10-minute break. We continue our work at 5:14 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to join us, we'll be able to determine your presence. We're detecting a presence. There are 39 of us present. I think there's more of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention. Next time, we'll find out who's here. We're detecting a presence. There are 51 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I ask the representative of the New Slovenia Group, who asked for 10 minutes before the decision, if he wishes to clarify the position of the Group of Members. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we have consulted on this provision and our decision is to support this amendment somehow, of course, with an acid face. This is not the best solution, nor is it a nomotechnic one, but it is necessary to accept this in the light of this situation. However, it probably makes sense to add another conclusion at the end of the hearing - we will probably suggest - that an appropriate instrument be prepared as soon as possible in Slovenia to determine the impact or whatever we call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving to a vote, first of all on the amendment under order number one to Article 79. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. They voted 3 to 49. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 83. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 86. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 100a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 105. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 112. Under 1 is the amendment of two parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, under order number 2, the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 16, against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 48 to 10. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, to Article 113. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It was 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 115. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 116a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Committee to 117th Article and on the second amendment to the same Article as the proposed Government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 58 votes against one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We are still voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the representative of the Secretariat whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. That is why we are moving to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government and the Minister very much for their cooperation. We're moving to 8. POINT OF THE DAY - OTHER REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION PROCEDURE OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF RELIEFED CALLS WITH REGARD TO REGULAR RELIEF ACTIVITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Minister, Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u179	Honourable President, Honourable Members. The proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications to nationals of the Member States of the European Union for the exercise of regulated professions or professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia is, for the first time, in accordance with the national programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of the acquis until the end of 2002; secondly, it corresponds to the characteristics of our legal order and is consistent with the adopted international acts and standards, in accordance with the "acquis communautaire" and the recommendations of the European Community; and thirdly, the proposal of the law systematically regulates the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for nationals of the Member States of the European Union to carry out regulated activities in the Republic of Slovenia, which also applies to third-country nationals if they have obtained qualifications in the Member State of the European Union. The draft law provides for a comprehensive regime for the recognition of all qualifications prescribed by those Directives by a single procedure led by the Ministry of Labour, which follows the rules of the general administrative procedure. In view of the envisaged reorganisation of the State Administration, which, in relation to the organisational form of the body which will carry out the procedures for the recognition of qualifications under this Act, provides for a rather selective approach in determining the status of the body within the Ministry and in view of the envisaged criteria justifying such status, the applicant has decided to derogate from the initial proposal for the establishment of the Office for the Recognition of Qualifications, which would function as a member of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as a separate body within the Ministry. It notes that the conduct of the procedures for the recognition of qualifications is indeed a matter for the performance of specialised professional tasks, but they will not require a certain higher degree of autonomy within the Ministry due to their expected lower level of caseload and lower staffing, as well as because of their nature. The proposer also assesses from a human, financial and organisational perspective that it will be possible to ensure the rational performance of the tasks laid down in this Act within the appropriate organisational unit of the Ministry of Labour in the field of the labour market, employment and vocational education, in accordance with the proposed legislative changes in this area. The law submitted for second reading provides the necessary legal clarity regarding the conditions for obtaining a decision on the recognition of qualifications for the performance of a regulated profession or regulated professional activity in the Republic of Slovenia and ensures that the deadlines and legal protection of the candidate required by the general directives are respected. In the first hearing, it was envisaged that the appellate body was a court because no second-degree body had been envisaged. In the proposal for a second reading law, the amendment proposal proposed the government as a second-degree body due to excessive deadlines. Thus, in cases where the complaint is justified, we can significantly reduce the procedure itself and ensure a greater influx of workers. In the spirit of anti-bicratic action, the proposer improved the proposal for a law on the issue of the silence of the authorities within the public administration, by deemed to be positive in the event that within four months a ministry responsible for a regulated profession does not issue an opinion or an appropriate instrument. Thirdly, by establishing a vertical link with the ministries responsible for regulating individual professions or occupations in the Republic of Slovenia, the law provides for the professional comparison of candidate qualifications with qualifications required by national legislation for the performance of a particular regulated profession or activity under the conditions laid down by the Directives, in so far as these ministries are competent for the professional evaluation or the opinion on the suitability of candidate qualifications on the basis of which the Ministry of Labour issues the relevant decision. Fourthly, the law also takes into account the Slovenian requirement from the negotiating bases for area 2 - the free movement of persons concerned with the issue of certificates of validity of diplomas and certificates of professional qualifications obtained by Slovenian citizens in the republics of the former SFRJ before 25.6.1991. Fifthly, the law recognises only the qualification of third-country nationals in accordance with the conditions laid down in the bilateral agreements on mutual recognition of qualifications concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and third countries by the same section in the same office. Sixthly, the Ministry of Labour shall ensure the staffing and organisational conditions for the implementation of the procedures under this Act within six months of its entry into force. The amendment of the original text is necessary in the first part due to the modification of the competent authority and in the second part because the applicant assesses that by 1 December 2001 it will not be able to fully establish the relevant staffing structure, equipment and provide other conditions for the start of the work of the specific organisational unit within the Ministry of Labour which will be responsible for the implementation of this law. In view of the outcome of the negotiations on free movement of persons, it therefore proposes a more objective deadline for the start of the work of that organisational unit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u180	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, with the Secretary of State! Well, at its 13th regular session on 7.1, the Committee considered the draft law and in its report it would not have stopped much in the applicant's opening statement to the law. However, there is a need to stop in the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. Given that the motion for amendments to the second reading bill has substantially changed the content of the law, the secretariat has also focused on amendments. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has, from the point of view of its tasks, comments on the Government's amendment to Article 6, which points out that, due to the amended text, it is no longer clear who exercises control over the implementation and uniform application of the directives and regulations issued for their implementation. The national coordinator introduced by the amendment in Article 7 may also not have powers of control in the sense of the legal authority, given his position. The Secretariat points out that the reasons for the envisaged deletion of the fourth paragraph, which does not contain a specific explanation, are not explained, why there is no longer a provision for reporting to the Government, given that the notification was previously provided for by the Office which is currently reporting to both the Ministry and the Government. He's putting it away. Both the Ministry and the government. The Secretariat shall also comment on the amendments of the Government to Articles 8, 10, 24. With regard to the amendment to Article 10, the provisions of Article 209 of the Law on Administrative Procedure, which, in particular, pointed out Articles 12, 13, 14 and 16, of the Law, under which the opinion on the content of the competent ministry is binding, proposed complementary measures, a period of adjustment may be fixed, evidence of a successful period or test of competence should be provided. The secretariat therefore considers that the solution to the amendment should also be assessed in terms of substantive compliance with the remaining concept of the law. It also points to the non-application of the already established dictatorship on Slovenia's membership in the European Union, Article 23 of the bill and Article 24 of the Government's amendment. In the debate, the members of the Committee considered that the decision of the Government regarding the urgency of the Office was correct. However, the issue of an annex or list of regulations and professions, which are not an integral part of the bill, has been raised and is considered not to be up-to-date by some members of the committee. The Secretary of State explained that the Government had therefore excluded this annex as an integral part of the bill in order to ensure an update. At the end of the discussion, the Committee supported the Government's amendments to Articles 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 8, 10, 19 and 20 and 24. However, he also drafted and adopted the following amendments, which essentially resolved the dilemmas with which the Secretariat had argued in its opinion on 6th, 7th, 10th, 23rd and 24th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mag. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, please choose.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party again, for the second time today, we support the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for citizens of the Member States of the European Community to carry out regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia. For we estimate that this is an important document in the context of the approximation of the Slovenian acquis to the European Community and, of course, an urgent matter. We have prepared some amendments to this law, which are unfortunately not yet on the table, but they are coming, which might be a little more detailed in terms of some of the dictions and perhaps a little clearer indication of some of the solutions already envisaged by the government in the proposed second reading law. In the course of this debate, I would also like to make a clear reply to the Minister, by recognising our qualifications for Slovenian citizens by entering the European Community in the European Community, whether, on the basis of similar provisions of other countries, our citizens, our holders of professions and professional qualifications will be able to carry out professions in other countries, or is it just our document? Thank you very much. Otherwise, we support this law with these modifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone, including the government. Marriage is needed to be accepted for us and for the sake of others, that is, those who come to us. What the Member asked before me is quite a matter of place. I would like to raise a problem with the annexes. The annexes first wanted to be an integral part of this procedure and also of the law, and then it appeared that they were not up-to-date and, of course, the government proposed to give them out. That's not a good solution. Annexes, those which form an integral part of the structure of professions, should, of course, be, and it is the task of the Government to update them in the light of changes in technology and professions. But it doesn't make sense that there are laws and regulations in there from laws and regulations and I don't know what else. At the same time, we need to ask ourselves when, with the arrival of an appropriate workforce in our country and the recognition of professions, we will become an interesting country primarily for those with high knowledge potential, but not for some unskilled workforce - this is Slovenia's responsibility and our national assembly to shape politics. With regard to the abolition of the office and the takeover of the Ministry itself, we agree. This is probably one of the contributions to the Anti-Birocratic Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I have not received written submissions from Members and Members to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Procedural proposal, Mr. Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u187	In fact, there is a procedural proposal, because I would just like to point out that we have just tabled amendments to the proposal to Articles 10, 19, 20 and 21, which are likely to be divided now. And in any way that affects this decision of yours, I would ask you to heed that prediction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u188	Your amendments are considered to be submitted, this is, of course, covered in treatment and we will also wait to get to them; for I have one copy already in hand, so this is taken into account. Thus, the proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 44 present. I think there's more of us, so I'm asking for your attention. I also ask colleagues and colleagues who are near the hall to join us. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting paragraphs 6 and 2 of the amendment to this Article, which is under order number 1 of the amendment to the amendment of which the Committee is proposing, and under order number 2, the amendment of the Government, which the Committee supports, is an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all the amendment to the amendment, under order number one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 7 and the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment, the proposed amendment of which is the committee, and under order number 2 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment under 1 has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. Procedural proposal, Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u189	With the first amendment, we accepted a coordinator or coordinator. In the next text, only the national coordinator appears again. Now, are we just gonna use a single term coordinator or she's gonna be a coordinator or both? We have already discussed this, and there is no point in just writing both expressions. It's really indigestible. I tell you, I do, but then they'll do all of Cankar's work, and I don't know Kette, and we'll rename everything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u190	Mr Petty Officer, what you are doing now is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u191	Of course it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u192	For a warning. Of course, with the article we have passed, the representatives of the government are grateful to you. We have a third hearing, where your concerns are likely to be taken into account. We turn to the debate on Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Because we are making an amendment to this, we are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 8 and the amendment of the government to this Article. [[...]] Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. Since we have also opened Article 9, we need to make a full decision on Article 9. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 9 is fully adopted. Your Honor! I ask you, do you have the amendments of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group ahead of you? Mr. Visac, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I've just studied the government's amendment to Article 10 and our amendment. If I am not mistaken, they follow the same point, because the government deletes the third paragraph and we are changing the third paragraph in this direction, as is the same reason for the government. For every silence is possible an administrative dispute. If I understand the Government correctly, it wants to establish the application of the Administrative Procedure Act and the Administrative Dispute Act and then achieve that. That's why we're withdrawing this amendment because we can see that content has been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on Article 10 and on the two amendments to this Article, taking into account the fact that the Socialist Party's Group of Members, which has an amendment under Article 10 and is not under the amendment, has withdrawn it. So I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under one in the review. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment is adopted under one. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 10 is fully adopted. We decide on Article 11 as a whole. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 11 has been adopted. I think we're all about Article 10. I now return to the open articles that we opened at the time of the adoption of the amendment, at the top of the review under order number three. Since the articles are open, we need to make a full decision on them and follow them in order. We decide on Article 12 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 12 is fully adopted. Procedural proposal, Mr Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u195	Madam Vice President. I apologize, but as I have followed, we have accepted only two amendments to Article 10. Or have we completely changed the article after we have changed the article ourselves, thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u196	No, we haven't changed the articles. I think I've also made a full decision on the article. However, I ask the services to check that perhaps it has not happened, which Mr Brenčič points out. Once we have checked, we will also vote on Article 10. If I have not voted, we must vote on Article 10 in full. It was voted, thank you very much. We still vote on Article 13 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 13 has been adopted. We decide on Article 14 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 14 has been adopted. We decide on Article 15 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We decide on Article 16 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We decide on Article 17 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 17 has been adopted. We decide on Article 18 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are now moving on to a debate and decision on Article 19 and the two amendments to this Article. The amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are being reviewed and, under the amendments submitted by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members, the amendment to Article 19 will be decided by order number 2, if I may express myself, and the amendments will be excluded. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I don't know if you're ruling out, so I'm asking the government; I don't think you're ruling out, I hope they're even covering up. For the Government proposes to amend Article 19, where a record of actions against decisions issued should also be kept. And I'm asking the government if, under this "notice of lawsuits" policy, what we wanted with the amendment, that's also about the outcome of the lawsuits, which means how these lawsuits ended, which somehow also testifies to the quality of the work of this office. I therefore ask whether, in the amendment to the 19th paragraph of the Government, to the sixth indent, meaning or under this record of actions, not only is all that is concerned with these actions not only submitted but also somehow the outcome of these actions or the outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mrs. Staša Baloh Plahutnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you. Under this second indent of Article 19 - of this amendment, both the complaint records and the outcome were actually meant. Thus, this text of yours was implicitly included somewhere, and of course we estimate that the amendment as such is not necessary. We do not oppose him, however, given that he may only make it more clear that the outcome of the lawsuits should also be discussed. I'm saying, I mean, at least our intention was to save everything in connection with the lawsuit, the complaints, in this line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Before I give you my word, I am obliged to warn you that if the amendments are covered in substance, it will certainly not happen at the reception of both - this cannot happen. That means you're shutting down. If the amendment of the government, which we will first vote on, is adopted, the amendment of the parliamentary group will be irrelevant. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u201	Yes, thank you. Proposers don't challenge fate, so we're withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the Government's amendment to Article 19. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Your Honor, since we have only two more, three amendments, if you'll allow us, with your permission, to vote to the end. Thank you very much. We still have to decide on the 20th Article as a whole. Just a minute. An amendment is also tabled in Article 20, namely the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u203	Yes, thank you very much. With this amendment, which is more editorial, nature, we wanted to clarify the dictatorship. See, Article 20 states that the written request or the written consent of the candidate shall be made. Now, on a written request, it is not explicitly evident that this candidate is a candidate, at the written request of the candidate. That is why we want to supplement or clarify this text more clearly and therefore propose an amendment that reads: "At the written request of the candidate or his written consent, he can... and so on." Because there may also be some unintended use of this article by various interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs. Baloch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u205	Yes, the proposed amendment is part of the intention of the article itself, so the government does not oppose this amendment because we assess that we are improving or defining the text more clearly through this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia to Article 20. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the 20th whole. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 20 is fully adopted. Since we have received the amendments of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group after we have already voted on the amendment to Article 21, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we should vote first on the amendment to the amendment, please take this fact into account and therefore hold a debate on the amendment to the Government's amendment to the 21st Article, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u207	The amendment is just a slightly more explanatory nature. The Ministry is obliged to prepare a guide under the general system of recognition of qualifications, in accordance with Article 21, we only want to set a deadline. Otherwise, the law will apply from the date of Slovenia's entry into the European Community, but we want this guide to be prepared on this day, and therefore it is somehow written here in the amendment that this guide will be prepared by the date of Slovenia's accession to the European Community at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you. We believe that this amendment is unnecessary, because this obligation already arises implicitly from the directive itself. In addition, our deadline for the establishment of the necessary system is 6 months after the entry into force of the law, which we expect to be from 6 months forward until the entry into the European Union. And given that we have already been invited to Brussels as an associate member to deal with the issues of these Directives, of course, this means that it is a very serious commitment in this direction, following the adoption of the law, to take an implementation approach as quickly as possible. Thus, it follows from the directive itself that this is the deadline within which it must be prepared, so we estimate that this amendment is not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are going to vote on the amendment to the government's amendment. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. It's 34 votes to 21. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. We still decide on the 21st article as a whole. We're voting. There's 32. I'm sorry, the amendment to the government's amendment was accepted. Procedural proposal, Mr. Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u211	Madam Vice-President, due to the correctness of the magnetogram, even now, if we said that the amendment to the amendment to article 21 had been adopted, I would not object. I wish, please, because of the magnetogram, that the amendment has been accepted under Article 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u212	I think the result was also recorded on the tape, and I'm sure this mistake of mine would have been noticed. There are three more votes. We vote on Article 21 as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We decide on Article 22 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Article 22 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 23 and the amendment of the Government and the Committee to Article 23. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision first on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We decide on the amendment under two. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. There is also debate and vote on the last, 24th and 2 amendments; under number 1, there is an amendment to the amendment of the Committee and under order number 2 of the Government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on an amendment to the amendment. There are 59 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone want to discuss this? Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you. The Government proposes that, pursuant to Article 194(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the proposed law be carried out at the following meeting in December. This is mainly due to the fact that it is a law falling within the so-called package of European laws because it represents an adaptation of the procedures for the recognition of qualifications for EU members; the proposed law has no impact on the possible transitional period of integration and we have identified in the national programme for the adoption of the acquis that will be adopted by the end of this year. And I think this is also appropriate in view of the report that the European Union is preparing each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-21-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the Government's representative has also proposed an additional decision, we will vote on these two decisions, first of all on the following: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Let's vote! There are 59 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I shall also put to the vote a motion for a decision that the third hearing shall take place on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much, including the representatives of the secretariat, for their continued work also to Members and Members. Just one more announcement. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will continue the meeting with the 18th item of the agenda, then with the 20th item and the orderly order. Thank you so much and good night.
