ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Have a good day. We begin the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Janez Kramberger, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Feri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Nobility, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Maximilian Lavrinc, Cyril Pucko, Davorin Terčon for the start of the session, Danica Simšič, Leopold Grošelj, Aurelio Juri, Ivan Kebrič, Dr. Michael Brejc, Aloz Peterle, Janez Podoblik, Jožef Jerovšek and Janko Weberek Please note the presence in the hall. I'm asking you to insert the cards. There are 48 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We invited the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, a member of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, a representative of the Council of Justice and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I welcome them all very much. Today's continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 11th item of the agenda, that is, the elections and appointments, so the assembly will move on to the consideration of the closed 5th item, this is the proposal of the Media Act, then at the reading of the 5th item, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act and in the order of order. So we're moving on to 11. It's on the line of day, it's on love and naming. You have received proposals from the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of Justice and the proposals and opinions of the Commission for elections, appointments and administrative matters. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge and appointment of two members of the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren Fund, the 6 proposals of the Council of Justice on the election to a judicial function and the proposal by the Commission for elections, appointments and administrative matters on the election of the delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Conference of the Central European Initiative and the election of the associated delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO. We are therefore moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. First, on a proposal from the President of the Court of Auditors concerning the appointment of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, which was reiterated by Nevenka Cukon Mavec. The President of the Court of Auditors is not among us. The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the report to the assembly. Does the rapporteur want the commission? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Nevenke Cukon Mavec is not among us. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mrs. Maja Zupan, please. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Allow me to present the position of the New Slovenia Group on support for the appointment of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not in the coalition of Slovenia for the first time, nor will we now vote in favour of the appointment of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors for the alleged non-constitutionality of the law regarding the appointment of a college body of members of the Court of Auditors. We therefore also opposed the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the law on the Court of Auditors. The Constitution provides for the collegiate management of the Court of Auditors. The National Assembly has formally adopted a three-member college body instead of a nine-member college body, in which both the first and the second deputies do not actually have any significant powers. And according to the new law, the Court of Auditors is a monocratic individual. In doing so, the President of the Court of Auditors shall have no express duties and responsibilities in the law for the exercise of the mission of the Court of Auditors. In particular, his freedom or discretion in determining the persons of public law who will be audited by the Court of Auditors is inadmissible because the President himself decides on the frequency of their revision. Thus, the remaining members were in an unequal position as regards the way in which they applied for the post of Deputy, and therefore a constitutional dispute had already been raised on their part. We believe that, rather than reducing the effectiveness of the Court of Auditors, it would be possible for each individual member of the College to have clearly defined powers and responsibilities in his field of auditing and to represent his own achievements in the performance of the tasks of the State audit alone before the national elections. Well, it should have the principal form of a college body. The second reason why we did not vote for Mrs Candidate is that she did not give her consideration to the development of the tasks of the Court of Auditors either before Kviaz or before the National Assembly, the goals that the Court of Auditors is expected to achieve in the next two years until the end of this term. Madam candidate, while we appreciate your efforts, we have also seen in the media information on your controversial behaviour in reviewing the 1999 Office of the President of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, which you have identified as the indirect user of the State budget and which has also explained the truthfulness and fairness of budgetary spending. We are not familiar with specific audit decisions. Therefore, it would be appropriate to clarify them before the national assembly and thereby eliminate the suspicion of dependent conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Since no member group wants to clarify its views again, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has signed up in writing, I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the vote for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall be secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the President, with the assistance of the Deputy Secretary-General of the General Assembly and the four Members elected by the State Assembly on a proposal from the President. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission. These are Rudolf Moge, Branko Kelemina, Bojan Kontic and Franci Rokavec. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. The Member who will assist me in the voting shall deliver a vote to each Member, and the Deputy Secretary-General of the State Assembly shall indicate on behalf of the Member and on behalf of the Member in the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for her, i.e. 46 or more Members. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 117, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 2.35 p.m. and will last until 2.50 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 117. We'll continue the session at 3.05 p.m. Thank you. We begin the voting process.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u4	We're moving on to the session. We're picking up the presence! I note that 63 Members and Members are present. So the assembly is concluded. I'm publishing the outcome of the vote. Minutes of the conclusion of the vote on the appointment of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 42(1) of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors proposed Ms Nevenko Cukon Mavec as the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held on Tuesday, 24.4.2001 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 63 ballots were distributed, 63 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid, and 62 votes were valid. 37 members voted in favour and 25 against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the proposed candidate Nevenka Cukon Mavec was not appointed second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. In the absence of the required majority of votes, the President of the Court of Auditors shall propose a new candidate within 15 days, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. We move on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to release and appoint two members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for the discharge and appointment of two members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund for consideration by the National Assembly. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and a proposal for a resolution. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representative of the secretariat is not present either. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of two members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. It's 37 votes against 5. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the proposal of the Judicial Council on the election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the post of three District Judges in the District Court in Maribor and Koper, and two Judges and Judges for Offences in the Judge for Offences in Velenj, Lendava and Ljubljana. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposals were addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and proposals for resolutions. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Mateja Žigart to the judicial office of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Lee Stegne to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Veronika Zorn Hočevar to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Andreja Arangelović to the judicial office of the Judge for Offences in Velenje. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Vladimir Ivanusic as Judge of the Court of Justice for offences before the Court of Offences of Lendava. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Vladislava Korošec Suknaič to the judicial office of the Court of Justice for offences before the Court of Offences of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a motion for a decree on the election of the Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Conference of the Central European Initiative. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Not at all. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the parliamentary conference of the Central European Initiative. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We turn to the motion for a decree on the election of the Associated Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss again, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election of the Association Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 5B DOT OF THE DAY - THE THIRD DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE MEDIA LAW. We remained on page four, reviewing the amendments to the proposal for a media law - third reading, of 10.4.2001. On page four, I am putting an amendment to Article 19 into the debate and decision; I owe you an explanation as well; the text under the footnote referred to in the amendment to Article 19 is not correct, so that we will discuss, deal with and decide on the amendment to Article 19. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you for your word. The Social Democratic Party believes that certain conditions need to be met if we are to meet the conditions for operation or for an independent media space. Here we think in particular that the Fund will somehow provide a plural media space to ensure the distribution of media in a way that is normal and not with such exclusive solutions that ownership or ownership is also regulated in such a way that this is ensured. One important provision to enable this is that members of the governing political parties do not perform editorial functions. For this reason, we propose that this article or this provision be supplemented as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. As I understand it, Article 19 is no longer open because we have concluded the hearing, so it is probably irrelevant to discuss it at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u8	Mrs. Shirca, if you'll excuse me, the secretariat's explanation is an open article. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u9	The article is certainly open, since a specific text has been deleted in the second reading, so that we are voting on it in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to decision-making. First, we decide on the amendment to Article 19. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 27. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 23, which is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 34, of which the Government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 43, of which the Government is proposing, the mother labour body supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 46, under number 1 is the amendment proposed by the Government, the parent working body supports it, and under number 2, the amendment proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members is opposed by the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We believe that media space is being shaped by all media, both electronic and printed media, and it makes sense to us that everyone is also participating in the media fund. We therefore propose that print media also be charged with 3% of the ad fee and that these funds then be allocated to the media development fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number two. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 18 to 30. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 61. Under number 1, the amendment proposed by the Committee is supported by the amendment by the Government with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 will be irrelevant. The amendment under number 2 shall be proposed by the Government, which is not supported by the parent working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on amendment number one. 62 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47. (Nobody.]] I note that the amendment under 1 has been adopted and the vote on the amendment under 2 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 62. The first amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, the government opposes the amendment. The amendment's proposed under 2 is the government, the parent working body of the amendment breaks down. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you. In the Socialist Party Group, we propose that the provisions of the competition law should also be introduced for media distributors, so to speak, I specifically think that Article 11 of the Act applies, and we think that they are also subject to them. In this case, as I mentioned earlier, it would in some way be ensured that there is at least the possibility of ensuring competitive distribution of media in the field of distribution. I hope that this will also contribute to more accessible and more competitive accessibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 26. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to the 64th Article, of which the Committee is proposing, the amendment is supported by the Government. Anybody want to talk? We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the six amendments to Article 67. Under 1 is the government's amendment, under 2 as well; under 3 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Širca; the government opposes the amendment; the parent working body supports it, with a note if the amendment under 3 is adopted; the amendment under 4 is irrelevant; under 4 is the amendment of the government, which is not supported by the parent working body, under 5 is the amendment of the government and under the 6th amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Bojan Kontic. The government opposes the amendment, the mother's working body does not support it. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I would like to draw attention to the expression that has been dragging us through the debates of the media law over the past few months. This is an expression that we had in the original version: "music expressed in the Slovenian rumor." The term, I believe no one liked him, not even the committee or you. Therefore, the committee has somehow taken over the decision and the proposal you have in the form of the amendments sent to replace this term with "the music of Slovenian authors or performers". As we have examined the European directives more closely, we have found that such an expression could be very contrary to all the guidelines that Europe has adopted and, of course, we must also take into account in this law. That's why we've been trying to get out of this conundrum and from this very unsympathetic expression we're somehow exporting in another way. By proposing that we use the term in all three articles that use it, this is the term "Slovenian music" in Articles 67, 86 and 140, by clarifying more precisely what it is in Article 67. We suggest that as an interpretative sentence we insert a sentence saying that Slovenian music under this law is music in Slovenian terms and includes the concept of vocal, vocal-instrumental and instrumental music. We believe that such an expression or such an explanation would also be acceptable to European conventions or negotiations for an association agreement, and that the term 'Slovenian music', regardless of whether it is likely that many people represent a certain type or type of music below, that this expression would nevertheless be the one that would transfer our ears and at the same time bring along the difficulties that could be encountered in the negotiations in Chapter 20 with the European Community with this interpretative phrase. I therefore propose that this government amendment be supported and that you do not support the expression'music of Slovenian authors or performers' because there could be problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u17	I am certainly obliged here to provide an explanation on the really painful understanding of one very modest desire of Slovenian space within the cultural field, from which Europe does not in fact require anything special and leaves it with absolute autonomy. When the law introduced a dictatorship proposed by the government that those poor 10% of Slovenian musical works should be transformed into "music with the Slovenian narration", of course, I found expression extremely inappropriate, especially because of the fact that we conceal our desire, that we want 10% of the poor within the radio stations also domestic original music. As a result, we have proposed the term "work of Slovenian authors and performers" which would cover all the terms, would also be defined in the areas of instrumental, vocal and other music, and even so far as, say, Slovenian Philharmonic, when performing Mahlar's music, but not, say, the music of Mihelčič or the local author, could also be included in the quota of Slovenian music. I also felt it necessary to insist on this because we already have a dictatorship in the same law to publish within electronic media a certain quota of audio visual parts of Slovenian origin. The discrimination that Europe is supposed to experience as a result of this, within the possible publication of 10% of the works, is possible, I will say, the beginning of some autonomy of the Slovenian term. But given that the government then decided to maintain the "Slovenian music" dictatorship to add an interpretation to it in terms of "Slovenian music is this", I think the solution is now appropriate, regardless of the fact that it is no longer the authors in it, as proposed by the committee, or the performers. I do not think that in this case negotiations or even Slovenia's entry into the EU will be compromised because we want a certain percentage of music. With this solution, which the government has now proposed, the cycle of Slovenian possible works within radio and other electronic media is actually even narrower in terms of firing all those musicians who will perform, of course, Slovenians, but will not perform foreign music, it is said in Croatian, English, Italian or other origins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. There has been a lot of debate on how to properly address this law in order to be taken into account by people who will assess whether the law is in line with European law or not. However, I must say that the fifth amendment tabled by the Government on 10.4. has not been considered by the Committee, not because the Committee had met before. If I were to be accepted by the fifth amendment of the government, I must say that this is incomplete in this sense, this 67th paragraph is understood to mean "Slovenian music" or "the music expressed in the Slovenian rumour" is linked to Article 86 and Article 140. We are now in the third reading, the amendments cannot be tabled and it is consistent if we support what the Committee has supported, the amendment of Ambassador Shirce Majde to this article, because it has also applied this same term in Articles 86 and 174 and has amended these two. Otherwise, if we accept the amendment of the government, then we have here 'Slovenian music', and elsewhere we have 'the music expressed in the Slovenian rumor'.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u20	Mr. Mogue, I think on pages 13 and 21, two amendments have also been tabled. One is an amendment by the government that speaks of "Slovenian music", and the 140th is an amendment by the government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u21	Then it's consistent. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I believe that when we speak - I speak generally - about Slovenian music, that Italian and Hungarian national communities are also involved with their music production. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Bozidar Zorko, would you like to explain? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u25	So, if I read the diction in detail: "Slovenian music under this law is music in Slovenian terms and covers the concept of all three types of music." For those areas where minority programmes work, these types of music are also considered to be produced by minority radio stations. In fact, this music can also be part of its own production because we are talking about the Slovenian term, our minorities, not all Italian and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u27	What Mr Battelli is asking is more precisely and more unequivocally covered by the amendment signed by Mrs Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in view of the link that Mr Moge has pointed out when we vote on these six amendments, we will move to a vote on the two amendments - one is the amendment of the government and the other amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Shirca to Article 86 and then to Article 140. First, we turn to the vote on the first amendment to Article 67. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We move to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We move to the vote on amendment number three. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 26. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 26.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That's why we're going to vote on the government's amendment under 4. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 23. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the amendment of the government under 4 has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the government's amendment under 5. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under 6. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 32. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As I informed the assembly earlier, we are now going to the 13th page of the review, where there are two amendments to Article 86. Under 1 is the government's amendment if it is adopted in a consistent manner with what we have adopted in the amendments that we have now decided on; under 2 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Širca. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 has been adopted, the amendment under 2 is irrelevant. On letter 21 we also have two amendments to Article 140. Under 1 is an amendment by the government which allows for a consistent text and under 2 is an amendment by the group of Members with the first signed Mrs Majdo Shirca. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the amendment under 1 has been adopted, so the amendment under 2 has become irrelevant. We're going back to page nine of the amendments. We're moving on to the debate. By Article 74, there are two amendments which are both irrelevant, since Article 74 was not amended in the second reading. We are therefore moving on to the consideration, debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 75. Both proposers are the government, the parent working body of both amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 8. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 34 to 8. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 78. The proposer under 1 is the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. The proposer under 2 is the committee, the amendment government supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on one amendment to Article 79, of which the Committee is the proposer, the amendment is supported by the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 81, of which the Government is proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 4. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 82. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the Group of Members, with first signed by Bojan Kontic to Article 82, whose proposer is a group of Members with first signed by Joseph Kavticnik. For the government, the amendment is unalterable, its parent working body supports it. Under 2 is the basic amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic. His government opposes him, his mother's working body supports him. Under 3 is the amendment of a committee that the government opposes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Bozidar Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to that part that specifically speaks of 3% of the RTV contribution. There's probably no one in the hall who doesn't know what this was all about. We have repeatedly stressed in all the debates that we are aware of the importance of local and regional radio and television stations and that, therefore, we also have the opportunity in the current law to support their activities, programme content or, if you wish, programmes in some way also with budgetary resources. The government has that purpose. If you read paragraphs 4 and 82, in the form proposed, then these two articles provide us with this support. This also allows 111th article, which the government proposes to delete, but according to the Committee's position, we will wait for your decision. In any case, we want to support local and regional radio and television stations, but not as stations, but in particular their content, which is important for informing our citizens and citizens. However, there is no way we can agree to the solution that is proposed mainly in this 3% RTV subscription. The law on RTV specifically refers to the purpose of the funds collected. In addition, I would point out that if once an RTV subscription or a cellular RTV subscription is opened for various purposes, then I don't know where we're going to end up, what we're going to do with this subscription. Therefore, the government opposes this and recalls that if this is accepted, we will be obliged to challenge it in appropriate ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I agree with the Secretary of State that there are possibilities, but in fact there are possibilities, and then the reality is completely different. In doing so, I also welcome the government's objectives, which say they are good, but I strongly doubt this about local and regional radio stations. The proposed basic amendment under number 2 was initially supported by almost all parliamentary groups. Of course, action encounters a reaction and also concerns related to it. Indeed, the RTV Act provides for a contribution that we are reluctant to pay to all those who receive this technological achievement that we have electricity in our homes. Although I do not know what the proportion of citizens and citizens who have succeeded under the law of exemption from payment of contributions is. This contribution, i.e. 100%, is received by RTV Slovenia. It's not about ratings, it's not about obedience, it's about income that they automatically get according to the law. Some people think they're sick of being given God-given. When a group appears in which we all have a legal initiative as individuals, and we propose that 3% of these funds be devoted to regionals, locals, student media, is a fire in the roof. This explanation that we are taking 3% can also be referred to as a proposal to give only 97%. Let me give you a comparison. Budget users - this is happening in practice - understand that the number recorded in the adopted budget is definitive and that they are fully justified for these funds, regardless of how the revenue side is realized. This is also happening to us in the municipal budgets. Of course, they are even thinking of getting that money back because it was promised in the budget, and they didn't get it. On the part of one of the Members, we have been the proponents of this amendment marked as people with almost a thieving mentality. Why? Because we give less than we've written down in the law. We are making illegal amendments because we can only regulate the amendment of the RTV law in the division of the contribution. The adoption of this proposed amendment would therefore constitute the necessity of amending the law on RTV. Well, this law also changes, is to notice changes and will be at the next meeting. It would be interesting to listen to people - I mean citizens and citizens - whether they agree that the country is 97% RTV and 3% regional and local. I firmly believe that we would find that the relationship is wrong and that more is needed. At the same time, I firmly believe that this proposed percentage will not compromise the functioning of state television. It is, of course, possible to report to the applicants that this will mean a skirmish, for example, of the Koper part of RTV, but it depends on the management of RTV. The Director, however, agrees to appoint this well-respected congregation. At that time, it will also be possible to vote in favour of or not. The question was also raised as to why to reduce the resources allocated to an institution that was pursuing national interest. I wonder what the regionals and locals are doing. I firmly believe that, with the required quantity of their own production, they are still fulfilling their national interest, in the environments where they operate. Finally, if these three percent will endanger the operation of RTV Slovenia, then something is seriously wrong with this house and changes in this house are really necessary. In the end, let me just say this. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I suggest that we follow the parent's support in the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u33	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I already told the committee in the opening presentation how the decision was taken. At the request of his colleague Barovic, he first decided on the additions to Article 111, which is on the basis of the audiovisual media, because Members who had been recruited wanted to have at least one source of funds to help these audiovisual media. When this was voted against the interests of the government, as the Secretary of State has already said, we then went on to this amendment, under the terms of "Contic's" as the first to be signed. Nevertheless, the Committee supported it, although the Secretariat explicitly said that such a solution was legally disputed. This solution is also legally controversial because the National Assembly has already dealt with, in its first reading, the law on RTV Slovenia and has not given any views or added to it. But that this is a legal system issue, and I can still read what they're proposing here, "Urbi et Orbi". Article 14 of the Law on RTV Slovenia states that RTV Slovenia acquires funds for the creation, preparation, broadcasting and dissemination of RTV Slovenia programmes from contributions to Radio Television programmes of Slovenia, hereinafter referred to as ‘the contribution’. Then there are other sources from which we obtain. In the final paragraph, it says: "The funds collected by the contribution shall be used to create, prepare, broadcast and disseminate RTV Slovenia and to maintain and operate the transmission network necessary for the broadcasting and distribution of local non-commercial RTV programmes." According to the contribution, one activity is already paying. If we would like to legally resolve the problem referred to by Mr Kontič, we should, in Article 3 of the RTV Act, introduce "public service after this law and the extent of it creates..." and so on and so on, and should enter these things between these indents set out in Article 3. Saving the media bill, I'm not speaking as chairman of the committee right now, but as a Member, but I think it's a little bit of a laugh about what we're supposed to do as Members. Members should at least not accept legally disputed solutions by voting. I speak because I trust our secretariat, and our secretariat said this is the solution. But everyone should vote with their own morals.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please. Then Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u35	However, there is something else that should be added to Mr Mojet's supplement. A supplement that devises a dispute that would have arisen if this proposed amendment had been voted on. The redirection of earmarked resources derived from fees, advertising and other sources of activity, local and regional radio and TV stations is, of course, absolutely controversial because of the law already mentioned. But what else would happen to this so-called "robbery" if this amendment were to come true? There would be absolute nonconsistency, given what we have already adopted in this law and what I suppose we will, of course, continue to do. There would be absolute double ratings, if I can so define, for local, regional and other non-profit media that have already had a few discharges in this system that is set up. They have leave in the sense of unpaid opportunities for broadcasting through broadcasters and links within a public institution, which means that they are already financed, have the advantage of participating in funds from the fund, have discounts in fees, frequencies and elsewhere. In short, if this amendment were to be voted on, let me stress once again, there would be an absolute imbalance between the ratings of one and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much. To replicate the implementation of Mrs Majde Shirca wishes Mr Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My replica is valid for both Mr. Mohet and Mrs. Majdi Shirca. On Saturday 1:30 p.m., we passed a law on the implementation of the budget in which we denied all the national programmes we have adopted and adopted and adopted before us in this Chamber. National programmes have so far been implemented in 15 percent, in ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, we make fool of ourselves! And this is only 3 percent. If not, it's an alarm for Radio TV Slovenia, because it's to be aware that when we fix that marriage, we're going to take 10 percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Of course, I look forward to this announcement that this will be discussed where the city is, and I suppose Mr Christmas will have enough arguments to say at that time that a national television house with a 10% reduced subscription can do all that we expect him to do. His arguments will be welcome either in that law or when RTV Slovenia asks for, say, an increase in the subscription or anything else. When we talk about this law, it makes sense for us to stick to some structure of the law. In this construction, despite the fact that the three governments have changed, the rest is that something is being commanded to the media, given this directive, that something is expected of them and that it is estimated that all the sources of income they have are too small and that this public fund should be still available. Colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, of course, say that there is still a need to have a fund, not only for audiovisual culture, but also for media pluralisation. But this is a second discussion. So if we're assessing all of this, then it's kind of rude to take this 3% -- in the previous trial it was 5%, and then maybe someone thought that if we went from five to three, that it was more acceptable and, as my colleague Kontic would say, that it might be less visible to what I'm just saying, some mentality of redistributing that money that shouldn't be redistributed because it belongs to someone else. That's why I'm not going to support these amendments. But I took the floor to remind you of the third amendment prepared by the committee, which, unfortunately, the government opposes. This is an amendment that speaks of the fact that the rights of authors should also be taken care of. This is also one of the ratings that RTV Slovenia and all those that are of particular importance in these programmes. On the committee we wanted the authors to be reduced to only 20% of theirs, I'll say, the legitimate income from the copyright and related rights law. That is why it seems very controversial to me that in a country that is trying to build, despite all that, on the freeways, to actually put the funding of the programmes at the burden of the freeholders. These up to 20% mean that the matter cannot be completely arbitrary, so I think this discussion is even more important in some way, because it means that everyone, whether they want it or not, will have to pay 80% or more of these copyrights, which just belong to the creators. This seems to me to be one of the key things of this law, so I would ask you to pay particular attention to this third amendment in voting. This third amendment, on the one hand, brings back the obligation, I will say, for your pets, who would prefer not to pay or take anything from the RTV subscription, while at the same time offering the opportunity for these authors to get what we expect them to be able to live in a regulated country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Two more replicas, Mr. Kavtičnik and then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't mean to come by because my colleague Kontic has already told us all about this amendment. However, since I am one of the co-signers and also of the amendments, I refer to my colleague Majda for letting her know or for some reason it has been heard that the applicants want to rob the amendment with a national television subscription. That's not true. Believe me, I come from purely fair motives, because I wanted to, and so I also participated in the committee in the debates and also in the parliamentary group, that those programmes which are in the law, which are cited as programmes of particular importance, should also have a share, such a share which, of course, belongs to them. That is why I have also tabled or cosigned this amendment. Whether an intervention in the subscription is the right one, we wonder. As we always wonder if every marriage is ideal, there is also a question and, of course, it will be up to you or whether we will decide here in the national assembly. But we have another amendment, this is the amendment to 111th Article, where there are also talks on support and concrete financial support for programmes of particular importance, which we also consider to be programmes of national interest. I therefore propose that we support one of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please, and then Mr. Yuri Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I will oppose this amendment or both. This is because they are the product of a demagogic offensive which does not take into account the system regime in that country and thus prevent the public institution from being required to do so. Of course, through our representatives in the world of RTV. That's the way it is in our country. The good faith of the proposers of this demagogue amendment is questionable because Mr Moze described earlier what had happened on the Committee when these solutions were adopted, which were in support of local and regional non-commercial stations. We know what happened then and what it means. Unfortunately, I also know the genetics of this amendment. In its original form, this amendment predicted that the 5%, about 5% of the subscription, which is now a national programme to move to local and regional stations. That way, I can't believe it well-intentioned. This logic of supporting me to withdraw this 3% and then support the candidate of one of the parties to the RTV director, who would then prevent the financing of these programmes from falling and so on, is only, unfortunately, a further proof of the demagogic intentions of this entire operation. Some of us have been present with genetics, not only of this country, but also of the basic legislation - one of these basic laws is also the law on RTV - and we know how and why certain solutions have been reached there. What is now being proposed, of course, undermines the comprehensive concept of regulating public information issues in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Malovre, if you'll excuse me, I missed Mr. Mohet, who owes him an apology. Then you will, Mr. Rudy Mogue. Here you go, Mr. Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment for a second position, even though I am not one of the signatories. You know, no one asked the subscribers what they were willing to pay, because they were the payers. Mercenary always pays for the service someone's offering him. However, we do have several places in our area where the national has not done much to remove the gray fox. People don't get the first program or the national programme, but since they have the electric counter, they pay the subscription fee. That's the first time. Secondly, the nationality is often so high that it does not come to these smaller places, to these smaller areas to report, unless there is any matter to be reported in a negative sense. At that point, they're pretty fast, like a bunch of vultures. And thirdly, the nationalist will probably have to consider the number of national workers. I think the number is closer to 3,000 than 2,000. And 3% reduce material costs, and the number of employees, when the economy suffers in one way or another, and also the payers suffer in one way or another, I do not think there will be any problem for the national in this respect. The arguments presented by the Secretary of State did not convince me, nor did the arguments made by some others convince me. However, this should actually be some kind of alarm for national television too, so that it is not all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u47	Chairman, thank you very much. I would be very happy if, when we had the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia at first reading, we would advertise these dilemmas and clear up these dilemmas. I think that's what's next. First of all, systemic. RTV Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance, which performs public service in the field and so goes on. [[...]] The locals and these are what? - in private hands mostly. And at least we, as a country, should care about what we have set up ourselves, as we have committed ourselves to taking care of in our marriage. I think that's fair. However, it seems to me that, when we discussed the film fund and also on the basis of the opinion of the secretariat, one of the sources of funding for the film fund was also a contribution to RTV, but we rejected such a law and called on the government to write something new. Now we as Members go again with the same pattern in this law, even though we know that the legal system is at stake. In this sense, it seems to me that if we do so, we will have such vats for the government, and we will have other vats for ourselves, so that we do not work here as a Member. At the next meeting, on the sixth, we have a second reading of the law on RTV Slovenia and to introduce all that you have told us, even more thoroughly than at the first reading, what is the public service for RTV Slovenia: Are there three radio programs or are two national programs, television, or is the symphony orchestra or is the jazz orchestra and all other things, is it really a public service in this area, can we afford it or not, or will we finance anything else from it? I think that would be a good idea. To such a source of funding as we have here - this is a charge that is now about 20 billion, and once it's 3%, once it's 5, once it's seven. This means essentially bringing down national television, and for this way of working, at least I'm not personally. That is why I will vote against these amendments. But I think, from the board, the game was a little bit played here. However, I will vote against my own government, and I will support all those resources that have a fund for these local or regional institutions and I will vote that this fund is maintained and that this fund is fueled by broadcasts of public importance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Three hands showed up. I mean, who wants to replicate? They want to discuss Mr Marsich and Mr Kremjar. Replica has Mr. Skolcz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u49	Of course, I am an irreparable optimist, and I believe that at least I will convince Mr Malovra that he does not vote for what he just said he will vote because he feels sorry for the contracting authorities and that he feels sorry for the economy that is finally paying for the state budget. This amendment, signed by Mr Kontić and co-thinkers, and which proves more and more that they are still prisoners of local radio stations and television stations in the part where they are trying to obtain some money for them in a place that is not right, is another place or two that also foresees money for these associations. I would ask him to take a look at point two, point three. This point 3, Mr Kontić's amendment, says that a complete network for these specific programmes is being built at the expense of the state budget. That's something where everyone should be quite alarmed. Of course, it says: "For the construction, maintenance and operation of a broadcasting network for the transmission of programmes referred to in Articles 77, 79, 80 and 81, funds shall be provided from the State budget." This is not provided for national radio. This means that these locals, who are being added to them, as said by Comrade Battelli, are also students of Demagog, so that the state budget will be fully built and serviced by the network. It's not anywhere in the world. There's really no place in the world to know, maybe, in any of those countries that have fallen infamously, with what we know to be the fall of the Berlin Wall, that it was there, but otherwise not. From this point of view, this amendment is indeed a redistribution of what is wrong and that is why I objected to it. However, I have said that it makes sense for me to compromise that some fund can be used primarily by those who do not have this source to collect a TV subscription. I also agree with the fact that RTV is obliged under special conditions to broadcast these transmitters and links for the transmission of these data. What goes through here is something that's not realistic. From this point of view, I think we are arguing about something that goes far beyond what has otherwise been regulated in this area. I also find it difficult to understand that it is such an awareness that this is supported, given the danger it poses primarily in the second part of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr Marsich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I am fully aware of the importance of local and regional RTV programmes, but I have a number of concerns about the adoption of this amendment, as well as the provisions set out in Article 100 concerning the Fund. I'd point out what's already been said, but sometimes it forgets. When the state or the law provides that the state supports local and regional radio stations, it does so in fact. These radio and television programs take precedence over frequencies, pay lower frequencies, pay lower contributions to copyright. The fact is that all of this means that private owners are entitled to it. Although I do not have accurate information on what the institution's rights to these existing local radio stations are, I am sure that some of them are owned and that the owners are known, sometimes for a single local radio station or a television station is also one or maybe two owners. Therefore, it seems unacceptable to me that the RTV subscription, which is intended to finance the public service of RTV Slovenia, would be intended to finance these projects. That's why I have this thought. The second fear I have is that RTV as a public institution will be hit twice by the budget. Once by adopting this amendment and depriving 3% of the subscription, the second, if adopted in the 100th article below, is the so-called payment fee, which also touches on work, which, of course, is covered by a public institution in the second block of its budget and is expected to be as large as their share, because they would not be claimed for a higher subscription. It doesn't work here. I am really afraid that when these two are adopted, they would simply come to the realization that RTV will come tomorrow with a new request for an increase in the subscription or even the budget resources, because they themselves would not be able to provide adequate funding for their own activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I don't think it's right to connect with RTV in a way that makes it very easy to cut it by 3%, because there's too many people there, but I don't know, vultures, I heard something, by the way, I don't know if that was relevant and so on. These are too serious and too complicated and too important to be dealt with in this way. Really. And those who know or know the structure of this house, of course we know it. Believe me, I don't advocate irrationality, I don't advocate mistakes that happen in every institution as well as in RTV, but these things need to be dealt with, for the first time, with the law that we're going to adopt at that meeting and then really discuss RTV and, of course, have data that we can possibly also have that kind of stuff that you're talking about, about a fee reduction, whether we accept it or not. But let's just say it can be reduced by 3%, of course it's a little bit of talk, and it's not right to do that. I'd like to say two things. Local and regional media also have their very important role in this country and in this media field. And this country must also take care of them, according to my assessment. The question is where and how. It seems to me that the option that we are discussing today, even in this amendment, regardless of the fact that it comes only in 111st article, is better, more constructive and more rational because the subscription, the former subscription fee or the present fee is essentially for the creation of national content, says this programme, which is created on RTV, is not only the 1st, 2nd and 3rd radio programme, there is also Radio Maribor and Radio Koper, including with minority programs, etc., that Lendava is also with the Hungarian programme. This is all involved in this subscriber’s ex or in this matter, which is now called the fee. I just want to say that local and regional non-commercial programmes also need to be helped. It helps them through the broadcaster network, it is also necessary to help them through this fund and, at the final stage, there is a substantial amount of money raised in this fund, such as the 3% we are talking about today. This way they can run and can run ahead if we adopt those amendments to Article 111 and, of course, they can also get more money from that. RTV is a subscription - I speak on purpose about the subscription, but it is now called a different one - is a matter that is aimed at creating national programmes, creating and developing a broadcasting network, etc. And it's not good to mix these things with each other. I support the future that local and regional media are also being assisted, and I think this is a good thing. At the same time, I think it is better to keep things the way they are now, and that the RTV issue is clear. But when the debate comes on RTV, I deeply agree, and I will discuss these things myself, and also look for the possibility of putting as much burden on our contracting authority as possible, and that the highest possible profit from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 25. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. That was the amendment to the amendment. The basic amendment is placed under the amendment under order number 2. So we're going to vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. It's 34 votes to 21. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under 3. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment under number 3 has been accepted. Your Honor, allow us to suspend our work for a moment. Mr Borut Pahor wishes to inform you of the news.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u55	Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia! With great sadness, concern, as well as with great hope, we are following the rescue action in the Ojstro Cave, in the Trbovlje-Krastnik mine, where five miners are missing from this morning. Our thoughts are at work in the National Assembly with families of missing miners, as we say, in high hopes that the rescue action will be successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u56	Your Honor, we're moving on. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment to Article 83, of which the Government is proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 84, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia; the government agrees, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have already voted on the amendments to Article 86 on the basis of interlinkages. We are therefore moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 87, of which the Committee is the proposer, the Government supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. It's 34 votes against 15. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 93, of which the Government is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 97. The first is the Government, the mother labour body supports it, and the second is the Committee's proposal, and the amendment is supported by the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 98. The first proposer is a committee, the government opposes him, and the second proposer is the government, and the mother labour body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It was 25 votes against 25. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to the 100th Article, of which the Government is the proposer, does not support the parent working body of the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're crossing. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u57	Although I thought in this law he was prepared to be truly modern, modern and, above all, to allow equal, equal cooperation in the media field to all those who will appear in this space. Starting with Article 100 and then taking into account Article 108 and Article 113, I note that the introduction of the fee and the dissemination fees referred to in Article 108, the monthly fees for the technical extension of the programme content referred to in Article 113, and the now-voted amendment K87. the article, where priority is given to local non-commercial media, to the right to participate in the fund referred to in Article 111 of this Law, I note that this is an extremely uneven cooperation in this market. Why? The fees referred to in Article 100 shall be paid only by national television, commercial television and the end. They shall, however, participate under Article 111, of course, primarily those who pay nothing in this fund and should at least participate equally. Secondly, I am sure that it is wrong to say that one activity is paid, for the first time, a value added tax on the service provided, an advertising fee is paid, an annual fee is paid for the dissemination of programme content, for the fourth time, monthly fees are paid for the technical distribution of programme content, and for the fifth time, a profit tax is paid if it happens to have it. What is, I am sure, impossible and constructed, as it is done, of course, is self-ordered to pay, but nowhere does it take into account any risks and even more, excludes certain media from the possibility of participation in this budget fund, as we corrected Article 87. Of course I'm against having so much to pay. I would ask the representative of the government if there is such an arrangement in a European country that someone would pay five taxes out of one activity to say so. Five levies. I do not think that this is, however, an activity carried out by a concession or in one way or another to pay a fee, but not one that is taken under the telecommunications law now for the frequency agency for telecommunications, for the second time to take a fund called the budget fund, but it is probably budgetary only because there is a budget there, but also partly from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. As this is the case, I will, of course, support the Government's amendment to this article so that this fee is deleted in the manner it is introduced and then, of course, channelled in Article 111. And I'll back that up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Twenty minutes ago, I said we were facing a vote that could lead to a very large lack of consistency within Slovenian legislation. It has happened that we have voted non-consistency, not only in the legislative field, but also, I will say, in the entire architecture of this law, which is the direction that has been very pro-Europeanly resolved and which has in some ways softened with the solutions that have been given, all the problems that we have faced when we first had the European Directive in our hands has now been challenged. The fact that the Constitutional Court will find another interpretation or challenge the interpretation of today's vote may occur. It can happen that RTV Slovenia will significantly increase its contributions, which means that in some ways we will all be additionally taxed or burdened. However, there was one, as I have already said, new form of law, where some media are in an absolutely privileged position, as if they had not voted a few minutes ago to withdraw from the contributions of the television subscription. Because of this nonconsistency, I would ask if we could still face the consequences of this with a twenty-minute interruption and a further vote on what remains of such a fragmented law as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much. So, Mrs. Shirca, before deciding on the amendment to Article 100, you propose [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u61	on behalf of the parliamentary group, twenty minutes' rest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u62	On behalf of the parliamentary group, twenty-minute suspension. Mr. Mogue, would you like to discuss this further? Then, before making a decision [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I would warn you that if we rejected this article, we would make the law a salad. This is because if this article is rejected, then it is no longer consistent with the 111th Article, which has one of the resources right in this 100th Article. If we adopt Article 111, this is also bound to Article 108, paragraph 2, - see! - and is linked to Article 113, paragraph 8, which means that if we adopt the law in this way, it will be completely inconsistent and then the question is whether we need such a law at all. I would therefore invite you to consider, if we have already made that mistake, if we want to vote on the unconsistency of the law that we need to enter Europe - this law is not primarily for domestic needs, but for entry into Europe - then each of us should consider how these things will be voted on. Once again, there are paragraphs 100 and 108 and 111 and 113.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u65	Of course, I can understand that fees are in some way a controversial source of fund power provided for by this law. This, I think, was actually realized by all the applicants at different stages of this law. I would like to remind the National Assembly that this idea of taxiing this activity has come in one part, if I am not interrupting, of the Committee on Monetary Policy of the National Assembly in the previous term. For this law and, of course, for the film fund law. The government has drawn up a law for first reading, I would, of course, ask my colleague Anderlich if he can hear it, because he will be more difficult to convince than anyone else. In fact, the government has foreseen this fund for the first reading of this law. The Fund, however, predicted that because the publishers of these programmes dictate what we used to do with this terminology, whether it is Slovenian music or music in Slovenian terms and so on, some part of our own production and some part of European production. You could read in the newspapers today that the Ministry of Agriculture with various subsidies is following these structural reforms for 22 billion dollars this year. Unfortunately, the area of audiovisual culture does not have these mandatory funds, but when you look at the value of this fund in the Ministry of Culture's explanations, you will see that the budget is worth less than 700 million. We've done that 22 billion a year with an easy hand, so I won't say with my left hand that no one will be offended. When we talk about identity and about providing some kind of production in this space, which is going to be implementing educational, cultural and other programmes that will point to some cultural diversity in this area, there is a terrible problem for these few hundred million. I'm not saying it's small, but ambition is real. I don't know what the link is to the 87th article that Mr Anderlič was talking about, because there's talk about other things, but it's basically a cab for all of these TV or, all of the commercials, regardless of the publisher. Nor did taxes remain only a duty in this area, but we have them in at least three other areas, and it has not occurred to anyone to abolish them, and the purpose of taking a tax is similar to that of a tourist taxi or if you want to be in utility fees. Otherwise, it's with administrative fees. From this point of view, I think it makes sense for us to remain 100th Article, as well as all the other articles that speak about this Fund, which allows us to implement this audiovisual cultural policy of higher-a-vis Europe, because, if it does not, all of these things that we have prescribed to all of these will go absolutely to their account. That's what I'm warning you about. All these commitments will be made absolutely at the expense of public television, private television and also of those referred to in Article 82. They have at least one hope here that they can compete for funds for one part of the programming content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, Mr. Zorko wants to answer. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u67	In fact, Mr Anderlich would not be particularly responsible because the government's views on individual amendments state exactly what the government stands for or what the government supports, even in its position of 100th and all other articles. Now I don't know if I understand him correctly. Article 100 won't support it. The government doesn't support it. So we're obviously thinking the same way about things as Mr Anderlich. I don't know how to answer him. Unfortunately, I do not know the tax system across all European countries. Certainly there are no fees for taxes, and certainly no European country does. That's right. I do not know why Mr Anderlich is asking me, given which amendments or which members the government supports or does not support. The 100th member of the government doesn't support it, that's what it says. And the others didn't either.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u69	I didn't want to ask you just like that, but I thought you knew the most about it, and I asked you for help, and since you're an advocate of the law on behalf of the proposing government. Since you're proposing to delete it, I'll help you. As far as the tax system's concerned, I think everything's fine. Value added tax, profit tax and all that also applies here. But here I was saying, which country, if any, has an extension fee in addition to these general charges, a utility fee for a frequency and a taxi fee because they played something. However, I see as imposing some obligations on someone who is supposed to be able to pay. And I know that, let's say that the fees in the 100th article are not going to be charged, not to those who broadcast television, not to those who make these videos, commercials and so on, not to the merchants who sell them, but to those who are contracting them. This Jepa is usually the manufacturer of a product that wants to be placed on the market and therefore needs advertising. I believe that these directors don't go on TV with an ad because they want to see each other there, but because they have to do it if they want to sell their product. Because it's just that everything usually goes to the workers, to the production where the product comes from, it seems to me that this fee is a bad tax, and as I said, I will support the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u71	Mr Andrelic doesn't understand, I'll just say, the basic role in the media. They don't charge software content. There is absolutely no charge for software content. This can be seen in this, but there are taxis for advertising and advertising. From this point of view, of course, there is no obligation for the media to broadcast any advertisements. Of course, it is one, it will be said to be a cynical attitude, because of course it is a source of power in good work or it can be found somewhere in the whole work. But that's exactly why we have the whole system of restrictions that we went through and maybe someone slept through when it was said that the media were mainly due to the dissemination of programming content, and that they should no longer be more than a certain minute, for an hour, then we had these terms "prime time" etc., playing these advertising content. Thus, let us say that, of course, it is trying to mislead the National Assembly when it is said that something that is an activity is being taxied. That's not true. There's a taxi for advertising.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u73	Yeah. Anyone who sleeps could have been debated, but I really think, Mr. Joseph, you've slept through what I've been saying. I've been talking about ads and who's really paying for ads. Not the ones he's playing, at the expense of his profits, but it charges the one who ordered the ad. I'm pretty sure of that. Thus, television will not give up its margin or profit on it, so it will not be the one who makes the ad, so it will not be the merchant who enters the chain, but everyone will charge the one who orders the ad. These are the ones who have, yes, or they have to advertise to be able to sell anything. You know, if there's 100 teas on the shelf, it's much better to sell those that people know about, etc. than those that they've never heard of before, but we're having a hard time discussing this here and it's unrelated. I have no objection to the agreement referred to in Article 111, Mr Školč. Nothing. Let it be shaped, but let it go to this fund under Article 111, in Article 111, to go to faith, i.e. resources from the state budget, annual fees for the extension of the programming fees referred to in Article 108, monthly fees, fees arrived in one way or another, the government is proposing a deletion, and I will support this amendment because it seems to me that it is just a little more. It's gonna be so consistent. Given that those who will receive 3% of RTV's subscription now have the advantage, I suggest that there is no source in here. As far as this is concerned, no explanation has really been given. I'm talking about a principle I don't think is right and I won't support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u75	The principles are the same and different. This principle of the fee, which has been proposed, has been proposed for a precise purpose - not to fully burden the state budget, which has already been so burdened, that it is compensated from funds where it is in some way less vulnerable to earn money than very - Tone, you can gloat! - in some ways, the whole economic propaganda sphere indirectly supports film activity, because the director who makes the twenty-minute video certainly earns the same fee as the one who makes the feature film for three years; if I speak very simplisticly and forgive myself for it. According to my data, there are some 28 billion inflows from economic propaganda. Of this, between 12 billion and 14 billion gross incomes on RTV programs or radio parts. If by the calculation proposed within this law and which has been characterized by an unsystematicity, regardless of whether we also have other fees in our country, from tourism, ecological and so on, of course in favour of some activity that is not just like that and of course is not invented in some way to enrich an area that seems to be nourished - it is not true! This area will be fed at a time when we will commit ourselves and commit ourselves to the directives that this law actually adopts. If the second is very different, in very different times, including with very different dumped and other systems on TV costing between 1,300 and 20,000 SITs, then according to some calculations such a fund would bring with 3% 350 million SITs. The only question I have to ask right now - of course, when a system has completely collapsed, I say again, with the previous vote - is if this solution now raises funds very, very non-systemically into the fund, from the fact that we are still making them out of contributions. It can happen that they will be so small from the budget and that then all these contributions could depreciate what the budget may not want to give or some ministries will not be able to choose aggressively enough, given that this is going to happen within a culture anyway. I just want to answer that question. It is not such a non-systemic resource known not only within audiovisual media, but also in various other forms in ways that money should be channelled from certain areas that are more developed into those that are more necessary and have one public interest. And these would be, if they were up to 3%, which means they could also be 1%, given that this limit is uncharted, they could reach up to 300 million a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, then Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u77	Of course, if we follow the sole interest of these owners, I will say radio and television stations, in this case only television stations, then I am not surprised that the previous amendment was adopted and that it will probably also be accepted by the other side of the same medal. Previously, I'm going to say, these owners have made 3% of this subscription and they've been making an unforeseeable amount of money if the law works to maintain this network that is supposed to pay the budget. Now that these broadcasters have been instructed to do so, it is said, not from this activity of which they are registered to charge up to 3%, of course, the owners once, I suppose, turned to Mr Kontić and the second time to Mr Anderlič. Now it's said, you're not going to take that 3%, because that's, I don't know, who's going to pay for it. Of course, there is also a theoretical possibility that the broadcaster will not increase 3 for this reason, but I do not speculate. There is, of course, a principle question as to whether a fee is a suitable source for restocking the fund or not. And I don't know, I'm just gonna say we're trying to blackmail him as a source while there's other fees. It's not, I'll say, the most common. It is necessary, however, because I do not have any hope that these programme owners or broadcasters would have in mind this national interest, which is why we prescribe these quotas. I just don't have that hope, and from this point of view, it seems to me that the fund is one of the ways that can generate better TV production. Therefore, it seems reasonable to support this, with all the risks it poses. Last but not least, some of this better TV production will be produced and especially by those who are broadcasters of television programs. This money is just going to go for production, like a documentary or, if you want, a sequel or something and those same things are going to have to be paid in the end. It's probably just, I'm speculating right now, even in the interest of those who pay for ads, because it's worth giving an ad for a good program and a good audience. Probably, but that's my speculation. Of course, the best thing to do at the first ball is to give as little as possible, to get as much as possible and, of course, within this confusion of rules, not to show any profit, because all these special programmes, clearly, will not have any profit. As a result, the owners of this series of business premises, from Bohinj to some depositaries in Hvar, will have to carry out some of the activities, such as on a yacht and another part in a properly equipped car, which will also be a means of business. These are stories I know, I envy no one, so I'm not afraid anyone will pay a profit tax on this title. He's just going to live a much better life, which is, after all, good for all of us. But the idea of the fund and the taxi is to generate better TV production. Less than resources, it is less likely that this fund will be successful, from this title it seems better to pay those who live well for this better TV production at the end of one part, to understand each other, or to live by force. Not someone else. And this is where we disagree with Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u79	President, I propose procedurally that we conclude that we are working today so long as we adopt this law. Are we in democracy, but can we? [[...]] [[You talk to each other, you don't understand.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u80	Please, let me...
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u81	You're just going to vote against it. [[...]] The point is that this law has been passed for three years and that this law has been adopted for the third time, the second time in this session, for the third time in the previous meeting, we accept that all the points are flowing in between and that the way in which the national assembly works and the treatment of the adoption of this law is also one of the consequences of us adopting the law in such a pervasive state. I therefore ask you to put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal by Mr Rudi Mojet to continue the National Assembly if it does not end by 6 p.m. to complete agenda item 5b, which is the third consideration of the media law. We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 34. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. Mr. Anderlich, a replica of Mr. Skolcz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u83	I will certainly not discuss this article anymore, nor will I discuss others further, because it seems to me that it is not appropriate to talk about matters in the way that Mr Školč and Mrs Majda have set up. In fact, taking it where it will be less painful and giving it where it will benefit me more seems wrong to discuss. Above all, I don't think there's going to be a debate about someone having a smaller car or a smaller yacht or something. I'm saying that, not television, not those advertisers, not the company that's in between, not the merchants, no one's going to give up their jobs, but they're going to charge the one who's going to order it. But they're ordering those who need it. I'm sure of it. Because they are fighting for their market, they are fighting for their positions and, of course, they are making a profit to their company, to their employees, to pay taxes to that country and so on. It is only now a dilemma whether we will tax or tax them again in this round or in any way burden them with some kind of donation or not. I am sure that in the same way that this is set out, given Article 87, it will not improve the television programme during which an advertisement will be broadcast. For this money from this fund will go primarily to some other things, as set out in Article 87, with the corrected Bevkov and Kavtičnik, and I do not know whose amendments. If we're looking at this structure right now, it's a little bit less in place to add another load here. If so, then these fees would be RTV Slovenia or TV Slovenia and POP TV, which are the only ones that really produce the programme in Slovenia on TV programme, if we wanted to improve the TV program, so that they could use these fees to prepare these programs that they would broadcast when they were broadcasting ads. I'm saying I won't speak again, but I'll give my vote for the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, it's too late to ring the bell. Although we had the resources to resolve regional problems, including the amendment to Article 111, but it seems to me that if this amendment to Article 111 were to be voted on twice, then the matter would be in the interest of the regionals. That is why I think that we should continue to support the government and delete the 100th Article - this is a fee for broadcasting television broadcasts - which has also been repeatedly challenged and also the 111st Article as a whole - this is an audiovisual media fund. On 3% of the RTV contribution, however, the government representative, the Secretary of State, said, if I understood it correctly, did not directly say that they would initiate proceedings in a constitutional court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u87	The consequence of this - it is linked to what we have previously accepted - will, of course, be the additional burden on the contracting authorities; that we are clear about what the direct result will be. All the sayings we had before that we needed to unload and so on and so on and so forth, we made a different vote. All right, that's what most will is. In view of this, I think that it would be - because, at the end of the stage, the funds we are talking about now would be a substitute, and in my opinion, but this is for the back, better than what we voted on earlier. Therefore, in this case, given that this has been voted on, it would also be better not to vote on these funds and all these articles and to remain on the same variant as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 100. On a proposal from the Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u89	I'm sorry! I'm withdrawing my vacation proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision: we are voting on the government's amendment to Article 100. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I'm sorry. He wants to explain his voice to Mr Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u91	I would like once again, of course without the hope of winning, to warn that it is dangerous to delete this article, because regardless of what its time has been called the mentality of redistribution, it is necessary to have instruments for good audiovisual policy - and this fund is From this point of view, it makes sense to support both paragraphs 100 and 111, and so on, because otherwise it will only happen that you will - that I will say, whether I agree with or not - that we will load a series of things with these media publishers, but they will not have a source from which to deliver better production. And secondly, what my colleague Kremjar said will come a request for an increase in the subscription, but on the other hand it will happen that there will be no serious effect of that 3% because it will have to be divided into a bad hundred programs. This means that the effect of that redistribution from what we voted on will be smaller than if we had a fund and led a selective policy. That's why it seems less dangerous for everyone to get something, than to delete a fund that can provide, say, 30 or 50 or, if you want, 100 good projects and, of course, everyone pays it. Therefore, I think it makes sense to maintain the structure of the fund if we expect to be more powerful or more cultured in this Europe to be seen as a force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote again, we are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 100. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 9. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on two, and I apologize for the fact that the adoption of Article 100 is also directly linked to the amendment to Article 111, we are moving on to page 19. Article 111 shall be accompanied by four amendments, the amendment to Article 100 shall be accompanied by the first amendment. If adopted, amendments under 2, 3, 4 are irrelevant. We're voting on the first amendment. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 28 to 14. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the amendment under Article 1 to 111 has been adopted and that amendments 2, 3 and 4 to this Article have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 101. Under 1 is an amendment to the government's amendment to the 101st Article, the proposaler is a committee, the government supports it. Under 2 is the government's amendment, as well as the government's amendment, which the mother's working body supports. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u93	I apologize, Madam President, but before you announced the vote, you did not say exactly why it was voted and I voted wrong in person. I would therefore ask if we could repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u94	I propose to the National Assembly that the vote on the first amendment be repeated by Article 111. We are voting on this proposal. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 41 to 8. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the motion to repeat the vote has been adopted. We are moving again to the vote on the first amendment to Article 111. The explanation for the vote is only possible. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u95	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u96	An explanation of vote can also be found in the re-voting process. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u97	In the re-voting process, I will for the first time define myself as the one to keep the budget fund. The budget fund stands in this media law for very clear reasons. Because of, I'll say, putting out the consequences imposed by the directive. The directive leads to the very high complexity of its own audiovisual production in the Slovenian media area and also leads to a higher percentage of European audiovisual works. The requirements are not small, and I repeat, if you remember, two years ago these requirements led to the thinking that even in the Slovenian space we should apply for a transitional period. The requirements go not only to the majority production of their own domestic production, together with European production, but also to a significantly higher share of the presence of independent producers. Now, you think that, when it comes to 3%, where the question is how long will they stay, from a television charge to supply funds in terms of shutting down these two directives, you are wrong. That's not enough. That's absolutely not enough, no matter what happens. It is not enough because, ultimately, there are still shares that will remain, regardless of whether the law will then be coordinated in the end, in view of the consequences that have taken place. So, the share of fees, the share of frequencies that will be now, I will say, only survive the telecommunications law and will be fueled by the administration of the telecommunications agency, not for programming content. Of course, there will be other systemic resources, including budgetary resources. Once this fund is withdrawn, these budgetary resources will certainly be the sky. Today I'm guessing there won't be any after this atmosphere I'm feeling. I certainly believe that some substitutes for a situation like this are necessary, and I do not think the Fund is sufficient to withdraw it in terms of obtaining that share from the television subscription now. So much for my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas wants to explain his voice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I cannot agree with the Government's proposal to delete Section 9 and Article 111. By voting on Article 100, we deleted only one piece of the power source of Article 111, that 3% of the advertisements broadcast on TV on the first and second programmes. So if this fund's gone, then there's no development. I think we have to read the law and respect it. I will therefore vote against it. I will also say this: we sometimes disagree with Mrs Majda Shirca, but in this law often; but I usually agree with the government, but I cannot.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. You want to explain your voice? And Mr. Just Bevk and then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. In this case, as I said before, I will vote in favour of deleting the 9th Section or Audiovisual Media Fund. It is said that I will support the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and of the Ministry of Culture, even because we have previously broken the concept of this law by voting 3% of the RTV contribution. If we're going to be taking these funds everywhere now, and we're putting them there now, then this law is not going to have any image. In fact, this will clear up the matter by supporting the government in paragraphs 100 and 111. If we save another 3% RTV contribution on the other hand, then I think this law will be perfectly fine and, of course, I will also vote for this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. As before, I myself will vote in favour of not supporting the amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this was the only legal and systematicly well-managed source of funding for local and regional media. I would point out, however, that it is likely that the final edition will have to bring about a harmonisation amendment, because if the feeling does not deceive me, we will now adopt this 111th article, so we will oppose it. Either way, whether we accept it or not, there will be a need for a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch, then Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u105	I'd like to explain my voice myself. I guess because Mr. Only Bevk may not want to know again that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u106	Sorry, that's not a replica. It's a voice explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u107	Excuse me! I'll make sure it's completely understandable. I myself will support a solution that allows the fund to remain, counting on it to then come out this line that talks about the fees that we have already decided on. In this regard, I am also counting on the support of all colleagues who claimed that there is no dispute that fees are also being allocated for this purpose in order to make the State budget funds available for this purpose, not least that one solution elsewhere was that the State budget funds are allocated to even a few thirds of this law. Therefore, I do not see the reason why the state budget would not power this fund, which would be something like a film fund for the film area. It is said that he would try to provide resources for quality audiovisual production. This has nothing to do with the last 3%. This strengthens me even more in this belief that the work of people is actually about redistributing money, not about some comprehensive solution. 111. Article allows the Ministry of Culture, regardless of what the Ministry of Finance or the Government thinks, to lead at least part of the active policy in this area, otherwise it is only crying and cattle that this production is just the way it is. That is why I think it makes sense for this fund to be maintained and not to support the amendment of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar's explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the government's proposal not to set up a fund. I take into account the purely and completely all the reasons that have been given and I deeply agree with them, but in the situation in which we are now, where we have something already voted, I would like to repeat once again, at the final stage, if we consider it 3%, and for that I will vote in such a way as to explain the vote, if we have a 3% stake in the subscription, we have voted that the sky will pay the fees for advertising. We've already voted on this one and the other. If we set up the fund, we'll charge the taxpayer exclusively, plus that, and the contracting authority. The subscription will be sooner or later, i.e. it is clear to everyone, increased and of course, because it is also the source of this fund, because we said earlier that not from paying fees on the basis of advertising will, of course, be the source of the state budget again. So we're going to charge the extra taxpayer, and we're going to charge the extra customer. To at least know what we are talking about and what we are doing, of course I will support the Government's proposal and vote in favour of this proposal. So this fund is gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a vote. We therefore repeat the vote on the amendment k, the first amendment to Article 111. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 16, against 36. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the amendment under Article 1 to 111 has also not been adopted in the re-vote. We therefore return to the vote on the two amendments to Article 101. First of all, we are voting on an amendment under 1, which is an amendment to the government's amendment to the 101st article, of which the committee is the proposer, the government supports it. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 34 votes in favour, protégé. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 104. The proposal is a committee, the government supports the amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 105, of which the Government is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 108. The proposal for the first is the government. His mother's working body supports him. The second is the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. The third is proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary group. The fourth is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, noting that the second and third amendments are excluded. Anybody want to talk? [[Not]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 11 to 30. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under 3. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 13 to 29. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has not been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under 4. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. There were 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment under 4 has been accepted. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the amendment to Article 110, which the Government is proposing, the mother labour body supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to section 9 of the second chapter, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. The amendment's government opposes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u111	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. This thing is irrelevant because it refers to article 111, which we have already deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u112	[[...]] [[Consultation]] It explained that we were voting on the amendment. [[...]] Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. From the debate so far, it is noted that the law we adopt is increasingly less consistent, less and less than it. Even if we find that the field of both printed and electronic media is extremely different, it does not devote any substance to local or regional media, including non-profit print media, and no support is provided by law. We would suggest that, at least in these terms, in this context, the word 'audiovisual' is somehow deleted and that these printers, some at the national level, as well as some regional and local media, are also allowed to access the funds of this Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u115	It would be rather unconstitutional if we listened to the proposal before which we are in this vote. Firstly, because - I forgive myself, but I am actually repeating for the 16th time - we are facing an audiovisual area, an area of electronic image, whose policy must be driven in the future, however, differently than we have so far. However, interference with printed media at the same time also means interference with an economic activity which should be regulated on its own. Intervention in the manner proposed or now proposed means, in some way, a political intervention in an activity that must be written down to freedom. It is certainly not productive to finance activities and in some way to interfere indirectly with the programming content of those activities, which would undoubtedly have been the case by voting on such a solution. Secondly, because of the fund that we have preserved, it is still fueled by certain funds that come from works carried by electronic media, it is said, and by the monthly fees for technical dissemination, and especially because the logic of newspaper activities must drive the logic of the free market and the logic of independent journalism, which I think we have legislated by this law. With this amendment, we could break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I am also opposed to the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group because I do not think this is the way to pluralise the media space in Slovenia. Money will not be able to be created in this way, because only the quality of the media and those who work, co-create and co-form these media is a condition for survival and, if you want, the creation of a newspaper, TV and radio program and so on. As such a financially supported media by the state, it will end up on the market, it will end up in the media market and it will remain there or not, as has been shown by practice many times that such financially supported projects have failed in the market in severe competition. It is said that I oppose this amendment by the Socialist parties or their parliamentary group. But I would like to say something else about my amendment to Article 111. This one's in the order of the fourth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u118	But you can, allow me, but let's focus on the debate on the amendment to section nine, section II. Chapters, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u119	I know. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. This was not supported by the Committee, since similar solutions were already requested at second reading in order to establish a fund for the print media, but were not confirmed by the Committee or the National Assembly at second reading, so that the arguments remain the same as at second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. The power of someone has been overheared, I have not talked about any media that has failed or this financial support would not have made it possible for them to survive. I said that there are also local and regional media, including non-profit media, which exercise public interest in this area. Like local and regional televisions, these media deserve some attention because they play a similar role, perhaps only once a month, but they do, exist. I think it is right that such printed media, although many believe they are few in time, but it is right to support them and also enable, I don't know, individual local communities or regions to establish a better and better printed programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. If Article 111 had already been adopted and we were maintaining an audiovisual media fund, I would, however, point out Article 4. I do not know what will happen with this 3% RTV subscription, we will certainly launch appropriate actions to verify this and the constitutionality and legality of this decision.However, we have Article 4, regardless of this 3%, which speaks of public interest in the field of the media. And beyond Article 4 and all the principles or purposes that the applicant has with Article 4 can, of course, also be supported by, say, local printed media in certain areas or for certain programmes or for certain functions. Not generally, the media as a medium, but, for example, to achieve public interest in the field of culture or such things. I would therefore suggest that Article 111, if already voted, remains for audiovisual media and that, for all other purposes, for local and such media, there is, however, Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u127	I'm gonna check in again. Article 4 only mentions that the State supports. If we don't get it into the fund, then it's just a declaration. Declaratively, for nowhere in this law follows that any printed media in any form shall also be financially supported. If we do not delete audiovisual in the title of this Article, there is no possibility, nor is there any instrument prescribed by the Government to define it. Furthermore, since we have proposed in Article 4 that print media, local and regional media, should in fact be introduced into these provisions, and in the fifth paragraph and in the fifth indent of paragraph 1 as a public interest, they have been slightly over-voted and deleted. This is said to mean that the country has absolutely no interest in supporting this printed programme, which is also successful, in fact financially. This is only possible, unfortunately, now that the audiovisual in this title is deleted and then the relevant matters are arranged further below Article 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u129	Just to clarify. Article 4, paragraph 4, where it is said that a specific invitation to tender will set the conditions, criteria and so on for the fulfilment of all those interests referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1. And certainly the promotion of cultural creativity in the field of media also applies to printed and not only electronic media. Of course, it will be more detailed for what programmes, but I stress that Article 4 is intended for programmes, not for the media as a unit or as a legal entity. More detailed conditions and more detailed criteria for the allocation of such funds will need to be laid down by additional rules. Thus, Article 4 does not contain everything, but Article 4 is broad enough to support, of course, all the content we are talking about, regardless of the form of dissemination, irrespective of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We vote on the amendment to Section 2 of Title 9 of Chapter 2. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It was 15 votes against 31. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 111. Under 2 is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, which the government opposes. Under 3 is the amendment of the same proposer, under 4 the amendment to the 111th Member Group is amended, with the first signed by Mr Sam Bevk. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'm in a really weird situation where I have to announce that I'm going to vote against my amendment. Indeed, this amendment, signed by ten other fellow Members of my delegation and colleagues, intended to appear as an alternative to the 3% RTV contribution previously voted in Article 82. If I were to be signed under this amendment myself, I would, of course, withdraw it, but I can't because there are ten other signatures here. I therefore appeal that we vote against this amendment, which is contained in the review of 10.4. in fourth place, and to vote against this amendment. If we vote on this amendment, which was an alternative to 3% of the RTV contribution, then the regionals would get the money twice on the plate, which is a little too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are going to the vote. First, we vote on the 2nd Amendment to Article 111. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's a 9-to-35 vote. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 31. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amended amendment under 4. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 25. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it that the amended amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 132, of which the committee is the proposer, the government opposes it. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u133	These are criminal provisions. But we've already accepted the amendment. This amendment would be the result of an earlier adoption. But this time has changed, so now, if we accept this, we will be in conflict with what we have accepted before. Therefore, if the law is consistent, it would be good to vote against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The secretariat explains that the amendment is irrelevant for this reason. It is said that we will not vote on the amendment to Article 132. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to 157th Article, of which the Government is the proposer. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to the 158th article, which is not under review, but you have received it on the bench. The amendment is proposed by a group of Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 3. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 160, which is the first to be proposed by the Government, which is supported by the mother's working body, and the second to be proposed by a committee supported by the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We are still voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. You also have two amendments to Article 163 in your review. Both amendments are irrelevant because the amendment is an article that has not been opened in the second reading, so we will not vote on them. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 168, of which the Committee is the proposer. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u135	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. A respected choir! At this point, the Secretariat may assess that at least one point of non-compliance has occurred. However, given the scope of the law, we would like time to check and precisely identify this mismatch and really verify that there are no other inconsistencies. Like I said, we need at least some minimum time for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Since the law is therefore inconsistent with one another, I interrupt this agenda item for the preparation of the harmonisation amendments, which are likely tomorrow morning [[...]] We are moving on to the next item, 5 p.m. OF THE DAY'S LINE - CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH ACTIVITY LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members for the consideration of the assembly, with the first-signed Victory, the National Assembly became inconclusive. We'll find out what's going on. There are 42 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is inconclusive and cannot make a valid decision. Let's go over it one more time. It is clear from the re-examination that 42 of us are present, which means that the National Assembly is inconclusive and cannot make a valid decision. However, since it is 5 minutes before the conclusion of the meeting and the Rules of Procedure are at least a ten-minute interruption, allow me only to inform you before the conclusion that tomorrow we will continue to work at 10 a.m. with the consideration of the 5th item, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Action Act. And then in order of course. Thank you so much and good night!
