ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Good-bye, everybody! I invite you to put your cards in the voting machines. We will proceed with the 7th session. I'm asking you again if you can put your cards in the voting device. Time is precious. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! I begin the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and welcome you all very much. I would like to inform you that they are detained today and therefore cannot attend the following meetings of our colleagues and colleagues: Peter Levič, Dušan Vučko, Leopold Grošelj, Franz Pukšič, Bojan Kontič, Mario Gasparini, Janez Podobnik, Blaž Kavčič from 3 p.m. on, Lojze Peterle, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Davorin Terčon apologizes for the opening of the meeting, Dr. Janez Drobčič and colleague Kangler from 4 p.m. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! The National Assembly is adjourned, so it can decide. We also invited you to continue the 7th meeting, please? [[...]] Procedural? Here you go! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Please, if you could just check it out because I don't have this device working.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Yeah. I suggest we take five minutes off. We'll resume at 1411 hours. And I'm asking the technical services to take a look at the voting device. Can we do it again? Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues to rediscover the conclusion of the hall? Please! The card needs to be put all the way in, so is everything okay? [[...]] Can we move on? Thank you very much. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue this meeting. To this point of the representative of the Council of Justice. I welcome everything between us. Today's follow-up to the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 52nd item on the agenda - elections and appointments. Can I just ask for a little peace? Thank you very much. The assembly will then proceed to the consideration of the 10th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits, and then to the 12th item - a proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for citizens of the Member States of the European Union to carry out regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia; and in order to proceed. But you're already familiar with tomorrow's decision. So we can move on to 52. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. Comrade Janš, do you have a procedural proposal? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Actually, I have two suggestions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Please, please, please, please, please, Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	First of all, the proposal that the National Assembly today should not decide on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a simple reason, because there is no one from the opposition among the proposed ones, despite different arrangements and also promises. However, this fund or this Supervisory Committee is supposed to somehow represent or reflect the plural composition of the National Assembly. I suggest that today we do not decide that Kviaz should meet again and make a more balanced proposal. I have the same proposal for a decision establishing a telecommunications council. It's a fairly numerical composition of this world. This composition is not balanced or appropriate, nor is it a political composition or political reflection of the composition of the national assembly in the part that the law specifically determines. This is a far cry from those who have been proposed by government parties. Even more controversial is the appointment of the work to reflect those interested in telecommunications. In this proposal, only representatives of one operator or one telecommunications company and also representatives of the so-called professions are mostly people belonging to this sphere. If this world is called, then we will get in this body not only a political monopoly, but also a business monopoly of an already monopolistic company. The appointment, I would like to point out, in particular, that the appointment of such a telecommunications council is also contrary to the European guidelines on the demonopolisation of telecommunications. Slovenia has accepted and signed these guidelines. I also propose for this decree that we today do not decide on it to meet once again with Kviaz and to draw up a decree that will be in line with the European guidelines, and also with what we agreed at the beginning of the mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	My colleague Janez Janša suggests that the National Assembly today, but not at this meeting, should not consider a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal for a decision establishing a Telecommunications Council. An integral part of your proposal is to meet a competent working body. I ask whether, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, the representatives of the groups of Members wish to clarify their views on this proposal? Otherwise, we will also vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, buddy school first. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I will take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the leader of the Group of Members to say what I should also say as President of Kviaza. I believe that the way to such a proposal is only one - by rejecting the rulings in the National Assembly - otherwise I do not see the basis in the Rules of Procedure, because of the dissatisfaction of any of the Members, to repeat the vote in Kviaz. Therefore, the President, I believe that it is possible to postpone the vote, but it is not possible on the basis of this desire to recall Kviaz. I just wouldn't discuss the postponement of the vote. On the correctness of the Quiazu procedure, I am prepared if you will give me your word as the president of the working body, as well, to explain certain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. My colleague Sok asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. It is also unacceptable for our parliamentary group that the supervisory committees of the various state institutions are formed without the opposition being present, so we propose that we support the proposal of Mr Janez Janša and that Kviaz discuss these matters once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Anybody else want some? Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal of the leader of the Socialist Group of Members. In another case, so that the National Assembly will vote on the proposal of Kviaz, we can ask ourselves about the meaning of the call for Kviaz, i.e. the Election and Appointment Commission, for the appointment of candidates. At the final stage, at least at the last session of Kviaz, where we talked about these two appointments, there was total nonsense. So, on the one hand, political organisations are called upon, and on the other hand, such as the monopolistic performance within the Commission, is also a reflection of his proposals. In the Slovenian National Party we support the proposal and we find it very meaningful, and in particular on behalf of some kind of parliamentary democracy and the representation of various parties, i.e. different interests, which is also the basic task of such a committee, please also ask the others to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Is there anyone else who would like to clarify the position on behalf of the groups of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Then it is necessary to take note of the warning given by our colleague Školč, although we do not see any reservations after the consultation that the National Assembly would not decide on the proposal to withdraw this agenda from today's meeting, and then the competent working body will decide whether or not to meet again. This is under the authority of the President and he can decide. In this sense, I think it would be right and right if we decide today whether or not the National Assembly decides on these two proposals. Such a proposal would be put to the vote. Can I? Okay. Then we vote on the proposal that today, in the context of today's 7th meeting, please, colleague Školč. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	President, I would like to ask that your proposal is fully established. In this respect, there is one postponement; the second is the imposition of Quiazu to reopen the debate. I just don't know, it's the usual practice of this national council to postpone certain things eventually. [[...]] But once again, I do not see any basis for this debate in the backdrop. Therefore, allow me to explain how the decision has been taken to ensure that all those who have not been to this meeting of the Commission are not allowed to do so clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Comrade Skull, may I just say that this is in line with what I have suggested. Today, the National Assembly will decide whether or not it will continue to address these points today. Then it's in your jurisdiction and within your board's jurisdiction to meet or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	That's not true. I would like the National Assembly to accept we have done our business properly, President, to say so. [[...]] And from this point of view, I see no reason for the reiteration of Kviaz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	I'm not proposing it either, colleague schoolboy. I would like to stress this in particular that we would put to the vote a decision on the suspension only on a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	But this means that the same point will need to be voted on once without an amended decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	That's right. For other options there is no business basis. I propose that the National Assembly decide on a procedural proposal not to address these two decisions in the context of today's 7th meeting. I also put this proposal to the vote. Every single one of them. First of all, the proposal that the National Assembly today does not consider the proposal for a decree appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. 65 colleagues and colleagues voted. Twenty-six were in, thirty-five. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive the necessary majority. The National Assembly will now decide whether to postpone the decision on the proposal for a decision establishing a telecommunications council. I'm putting the motion to a vote. There are 66 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 24 supported them, 37 opposed to the proposal. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing that he didn't get the majority needed and that we can go ahead with the 52nd item of the agenda, as I said in the first place. First, we will consider the 8 proposals of the Judicial Council for election to the judicial function and then the proposals of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, on the establishment of a Telecommunications Council and on the amendment of the decision establishing a Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions. So I invite the National Assembly to move on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. First of all, on the proposals of the Judicial Council for election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office in the courts: District Judges in the District Court in Novi Grad, four District Judges and three District Judges in the District Court in Ljubljana, Sežana, Žalc, Novi Gorica and Slovenski Bistrica. I'm asking the representative of the Judicial Council, does he want a word? Please! You want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposals were addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and a proposal for resolutions. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? I propose that we discuss all the proposals of the Judicial Council together. Do any of the Members want a word or any of the Members? I note that no, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Barka Močivnik Škedelj to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. There are 63 MEPs present in the Chamber, supported by 51.5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Dr Mark Bruce to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 49 supported by the proposal, 4 opposed it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Katja Kmetič to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, supported by 46, 3 opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Martine Lekos Hajtnik as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 50 supported by the proposal, and three opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Mark Kosmac to the judicial office of the District Court in the district court in Sežana. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 50 supported the proposal and 5 opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Alenka Jazbinšek Žgank as a judge of the District Court in the District Court in Žalec. We're voting. Of the 67 Members present, 56 supported them, four opposed them. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Damiana Bandelj as a judge at the District Court in the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. Of the 64 Members and Members, 48 supported them, 5 opposed them. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Finally, I am putting to the vote the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Mark Chagran to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica. We're voting. Between 63 Members and 51 Members, the proposal adopted them, four opposed them. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We will continue to discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He also does not wish to speak with the representative of the Secretariat. I therefore ask the representatives of the groups of Members whether they want a word. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Of course, we will not support this proposal in our parliamentary group. It is what we have already found in the introduction that the ruling coalition in the supervisory committees does not want representatives of the opposition, and we can only see that the arrogance of the ruling structure continues in the way it is written here. For this reason, of course, we will not support this proposal. We are very sorry that the rulings do not even take into account the minimum presence of the opposition on the supervisory committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. My friend Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Well, first of all, I would like to appeal that we reject this decision; this creates the possibility that Mr Školč had previously instructed Kviaz to meet again and prepare a different proposal. If there was no business option for postponement, we now have this option by voting. Otherwise, if this decree is approved, this country will be given the supervisory board of this fund, which will be completely impregnable, and it does not matter if it is appointed by the fund itself or by the government and without need it comes to the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, we appoint supervisory authorities in cases where there is a public interest that they are also bodies reflecting the plural composition of the National Assembly and ensuring the credibility of public oversight. This body that we have before us does not guarantee this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you. I ask, does anyone else wish to present the position of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] You're withdrawing. Anyone else? I ask, do Members and Members want a word? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Jerovšek. The debate is limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'd like to point out two things in this matter. I happened to replace Kiwiaz and there is a representative of liberal democracy, Mr Anderlič said in the introduction before the vote that their Members would vote by providing a plural composition reflecting the composition of the national assembly. I do not know how this is the result of a vote on consent to such a position, because there is such a strong representation of Kviaz and liberal democracy that their vote on such a principle would be directly reflected in some normal result. On the other hand, I would point out that the last time the Prime Minister answered questions and asked this particular question, he took the view that a composition reflecting the image of the National Assembly was provided in such bodies. I wonder if this is just word for word, or if you will give something to the Prime Minister and the President of your party. At the same time, I think that in this case, with such arrogance, there would be a rule if it were possible for the Slovenian public to be involved or to be examined in some way. Then what Minister Keber said would happen when he defended his skin that there were a lot of laws and decrees of the National Assembly that would be rejected if the people knew what it was about. At the time was the moment of truth and there was a moment of honesty and in fact you are now about to vote again something that is contrary to the majority will of Slovenian voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	A fellow school, please. Then colleague Anderlich and colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'm going to say, you agree that for those bodies called by the National Assembly, taking into account proportionality and also, in so far as the number of individual bodies allowed it, I have tried to ensure it somehow. And allow me, your Honor, to read you some numbers, because it is not possible in each of these bodies to specifically ensure consistent proportionality. Where five cities are concerned, it is simply impossible for all parliamentary groups to be represented with an appropriate percentage. Where it's 10 or more, that's, I'll say, in a way easier, but it's also not possible to cut it off completely every time with a percentage. Therefore, there was also an agreement between those who went to Kviaz more regularly that this account actually worked over several bodies at the same time. If I mention to you now the bodies in which Kviaz proposed, these were now the Republic Election Commission, the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation, the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society, the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success, the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and the Board of Telecommunications. Together in these bodies, the parliamentary groups have proposed 34 members and there are also 34 members. After this cut, the LDS 11 was given, with 38% chance. That means she has significantly less than she could possibly have. Then you have SDS and SLS + SKD, each of the 2 members and three members in common, is said in the total of 7. Since there were joint proposals from both groups for certain cities - I apologize, Nova Slovenija - then the United List received by 5 is then the SLS, which I previously marked previously where it was not necessary, has 6, DeSUS 4, SNS 1, and the National Communities' Group of Members. And then you have percentages divided into percentages, and you can calculate who is disadvantaged and who is favored. The LDS has 38%, converted from mandates, the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia 16%, ZLSD 12%, SLS + SKD 10%, NSI 8.8%, DesUS 4.4%, SNS 4.4%, SMS 44%, both nationalities per Member and per 1%. From this data you will be able to calculate that this is not a matter of, I will say, a total minimisation of these groups, such as the speeches in this working body, pardon, in this supervisory council that we are talking about now. There were several candidates proposed and five candidates received a majority vote with the help of ballots. As it was in the telecommunications world, of course, I'll explain later. That's why I think Kviaz, I'm going to say, forcefully take into account in the entire sum that the National Assembly is plural. I can say, personally, that I also regret that none of the five cities we are talking about are on the other side. But this is the story of one vote, not the voting system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Colleague Anderlich and colleague Juban have been reported. Since the debate is limited to five minutes, as well as a replica, I suggest we proceed in a row. Do you have a replica? Comrade Anderlich, colleague of Juban and colleague Janš. Please, Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Because I know it's no accident, and it's not that I signed up for the first word, at the first sentence when Mr Jerovšek spoke, but I'm used to it, and I accept it. Mr. Jerovšek. If you provide any information, you must be correct. You will find when you go to look at the magnetogram that I have stated that the LDS Group, or the members of liberal democracy, will support the proposal in the way that proportional employment will be ensured by the fact that the LDS had both candidates, would propose, and also two after the cut, after the percentages of which Skolcz spoke, would be able to participate. But after the intervention I had on Quiaz, the LDS Members supported only one. And from this point of view, be assured that this is right on our part. And more than that, what would you like us to vote for you or to give up any participation in this supervisory world? It just doesn't work. Liberal democracy has provided support from five candidates to one she has proposed. And, of course, the other four candidates were offered from the list of candidates. So the obvious is that who, how he respects a given word, is not in place. And if you're arguing that liberal democracy in the five-member control world can't have one candidate out of five, I don't think this relationship is right, and that's why I volunteered to tell you that you misquote what was happening on Quiaz. The point of the debate on Kwiaz was simply that we will not insist on two candidates in any way to tell you again more simply, but we will support one candidate. That's why to make it possible, let's say 20% of the five, depending on the result, you know how much liberal democracy would be. But if you think it should be different, then of course you should say it at the session itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	In order, as I have been able to observe best of my ability, the reported colleague Juban, colleague Janš, Sok and colleague Jerovšek are, as I note, as I have said in my best interests, also record the order of things. My friend Juban has his word, after him, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are currently considering the decree of the Supervisory Committee, the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. The controversy surrounding this fund has been so much in this Parliament and in the working bodies that it has been interesting that we can see that the role of this fund is important and sensitive. On the one hand, we are dealing with denationalisation, whether it is running or not; on the other hand, we are dealing with farming and forests, which are good or bad. There's a lot of talk on this topic. It is also the fate of the Fund to go forward and, of course, the presentation of the Fund to the National Assembly, the supervision and then the transmission of this information to the National Assembly, and in particular the objective information to be obtained, and that this Supervisory Committee actually oversees the operation of the Fund for the future and, in particular, its further function, which is also the regulation of agricultural land and forests. The discussions so far were all in the direction of how many political options there will be in this Supervisory Committee, which, for my understanding, is completely wrong. If so, we should focus in this case on what I have said, what is the composition of this Supervisory Board, so that people who could actually perform a supervisory function and forward the information in order to shape in advance the policy of this fund, which is the largest official in this country. Then, in fact, we should find that the composition is not the best and that it may not be the number of representatives represented by a group of Members, because this is also the question if these members are not strictly identified, if that is the case, then that is exactly what they are discussing. I'm just going to give the case, and I have nothing against individuals who are proposed members of this committee or against the profession. Of the five, there are two veterinarians, who are very good veterinarians, each in their own field. But dealing with the agricultural land fund has nothing to do with it. I'm not saying you haven't met any problems. However, if we want to get an objective picture of this fund and its operation, we should probably have someone, at least among those members, who are good at economics, finance and also focus on controlling the operation of the fund as one of which is a lot of talk. For this reason, I do not think that this composition is the best in terms of its structure in terms of professional guidance, but less in terms of which policy option has five members of the Supervisory Board of the Agricultural Land Fund, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you, Comrade Juban. I give the floor in order to my colleagues Janša, Sok and Jerovšku. My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Well, the statistics previously presented by Mr Školč are incomplete because, on the one hand, not all authorities are of the same weight and, on the other hand, in this mandate, for example, the replacement of the only representative of the opposition in the Dars control council, which was replaced by a representative of the position. So, even in Darsa's control council, the opposition doesn't have any members. If we add that up, but it's an extremely important organ, then this statistics would be significantly worse. And we did not say that the opposition has nothing anywhere, but the trend is bad and the election of this body will make it worse. I would add that we have proposed an expert in this area to the supervisory committee of the composite land to see here, among the proposed, two former members of the government's parties and so on. Among the proposed candidates are the parties who have four members in this national assembly. We didn't say this was about the relationship between the opposition and liberal democracy. Mr Anderlič used to perform as if the entire government coalition were just a liberal democracy. Maybe that's what it looks like now, but it's not formal. Among these five proposals, all five of them are proposed and all five have been proposed by government parties. That's a fact. Whether it's one of those liberal democracies or four, I don't care. This is a relationship between the opposition and the position, which is a normal relationship in all parliamentary countries. If the Coalition Slovenia has 25% in this National Assembly, it would earn at least one of the five members in this body in order to make the matter similar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I have a replica of Mr. Anderlich and some others. So, Mr Anderlič said: In this five-member supervisory committee, we have one of our own and four not entirely our own, but they have been proposed by the parties to the ruling coalition. Mr. Juban got it right. This is a political composition that has nothing in common with the expert, and it is probably already the result of a recent referendum, when you are also political, that I would say, go and vote professionally here in the National Assembly. Mr Drnovšek, President of your party, spoke here for the last time that the representation was professionally and evenly distributed, Mr Kučan said at the celebration last night that he was against exclusion. Mr. Skolcz is in favour of a proportional composition. So if you are all for this, then I suggest that we confirm what the President of the Social Democrats has proposed and reject this decision, because the composition is not as professional as it should be for such an important supervisory committee as the Supervisory Committee of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund, and thus allow Kviaz to decide once again to take into account the role of the Coalition of Slovenia in this Supervisory Committee and to allow this coalition to have at least one seat in this Supervisory Committee. Indeed, from these figures presented here, it is impossible to conclude and understand as if representation were even. I say that it is not, and some of the numbers that Mr Školč said show, of course, that representation is not even. However, before me, Mr Janša has already identified or told you how you replaced the Dars Supervisory Committee, which was not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	A colleague of Jerovšek, Anderlič and Weber will have the floor. First, my friend Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I guess I really have to apologize to Mr. Anderlich for misinterpreting him. In fact, under "procedural" I imagined that you were also advocating that the opposition would have its own representative. I'm sorry that your speech is obviously much more sophisticated and I can't follow all the tricks and turns in your expression. Looks like you should have a coded mind because it's too twisted. The group obviously has coders who know what sounds perfectly normal, then vote very cunningly and complicatedly. However, Mr Anderlich, when it came to the electoral system, you imagined something else under "proportional" or at least you were speaking at the time. You said you'd stand up for small customers not to be expelled. Now you are acting as a powerful dominant, most of it - everything that is in line with your crafty nature of majority thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	I must say that - of course, Mr Janša, who went out, I will not replicate now, but it is necessary for Mr Sok to say that it is also possible to explain things in the way he did, but I have absolutely one thing to say before, and this is that I have explained the wrong statements of Mr Jerovška. You can do whatever you want, Mr. Sok. But what you were talking about, I wasn't talking about here today or in Quiaz. I represent the Group of Liberal Democracy and the Members of Liberal Democracy in Kwiaz we do not have a majority, we have a certain number of votes and we have voted as we agreed on our two candidates. And once again, 20% of participation has a liberal democracy in this supervisory committee. And what else do you have to say about the relationship that exists in this national assembly? So not even this one candidate belongs to us? If you think, on the one hand, you deny us the right to act as a coalition and act as a government liaison, and I agree with that, and therefore we have simply decided to support from the two candidates that we have proposed, although in proportional representation also within the Supervisory Board we could run smoothly with two candidates for two seats. You probably know that, too. But we didn't want the other four to split up among the other parliamentary groups. And what's so vague? What's the issue here? I'm only talking about how liberal democracy participates within the division of these cities. I am convinced that it is right for a city to participate in liberal democracy because it is about controlling Parliament over - or so the law has set up a supervisory committee to form it, propose it, and eventually appoint it. That's all I've ever talked about, nothing else -- what would others do, how would others do, I don't care. And because you have to come out of it, if you want to ensure this proportionality, we've made a move to single out one of those two candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	The word is given by his colleague Weber and followed by his colleague Sok and Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Well, in support of the decision appointing the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, I would say the following. I have been accompanying the second mandate of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, and what is crucial in this control is that the Supervisory Board has its mandate for two years. The Council of the Fund shall have a four-year term of office. If we know that we have only recently considered the 1999 report, but today 2001 is, of course, that the findings of the Supervisory Committee, which he adopted at one of his meetings and on which the report was then also addressed by the National Assembly, must be consistently carried out. The National Assembly, of course, also adopted the relevant conclusions and, among other things, the conclusion was that the Council of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund would amend its statutes so that the Supervisory Board would have the same long mandate as the Council of the Fund. Then it's effective control. Today we are talking about the expertise and inequity of these members. The great advantage, I stress, is that some members have already been on the Supervisory Committee, some have been monitoring this issue in their previous term as Members, and this certainly provides a good insight into the work of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as we can read in the Court's reports, is not exemplary. At this stage, when we are discussing this decision today, it is in fact the composition that has an insight into business, whether it has only a two-year term or a four-year term. Because of this disharmony, it is very appropriate that this decision be adopted if we are to have good control. Of course, I also appeal to the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food when we consider the report of the Supervisory Committee that this report does not stand at a meeting of the Committee, but that, as stated in the Law on Agricultural Lands, the Supervisory Committee reports to the State Assembly on the operation of the Fund. Then we will all have an insight into what is happening in accordance with whether this Supervisory Board is expert or not. To this day, I can say, it has been consistently voted that this report is not being considered at a meeting of the National Assembly. I think that this assessment, which you are talking about today, whether someone is good or not good, professional or unprofessional, could only be given when we consider these reports in the National Assembly. This is then the substantive decision that could lead to an improvement in the composition. At this point, however, I can confirm that everyone knows very well how the agricultural land fund operates and what the role of the supervisory committee is, and I therefore support this composition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much. So, Mr Juban drew attention to the composition of this committee and asked whether two of those proposed were veterinarians, and he pointed out whether they were professionally qualified for this work. I think that it is possible, since veterinarians treat livestock and livestock feeds on food produced on land, which is also owned by the agricultural land and forests fund. So, if that's an argument for their expertise? But as far as our client is concerned, we have proposed a candidate who has worked for years in the field of denationalisation and is a lawyer by profession, so he would probably be more qualified to supervise, perform such a function in this supervisory committee. It would be right and fair, Mr Anderlič, if, in accordance with your promise to the Coalition of Slovenia, we were to provide one seat on the five-member Supervisory Committee, as this would belong to her, given the size of this House. As far as LDS is concerned, I am sure that you, who, of course, would go 1.5 places on this supervisory board, would also get it, only of course you can't take half because you don't know which one you would have, or top or bottom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	I propose that we do not stray from the subject of the debate. Comrade Dr. Bajuk has the floor first, and then they raised the hands of colleague Školč and colleague Juban at the same time. Dr. Bayuk, you're giving up. Colleague Skull and colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	I would like two explanations to ease this discussion. It is certain that the restrictions on appointment to these supervisory committees are not related to professional activity or education. And from this point of view, it seems pointless to discuss whether someone is a veterinarian or an accelerator and where this circle of land ties ends. Because what Mr Sok says, of course, means that we are all qualified, because the last thing that begins in this circle ends up on our plates and I hope again, many times back in the field. But that seems completely inappropriate to me to discuss. I would like to say these numbers, which will overturn some of the tendentious claims that there are certain trends of deterioration, but that not all the working bodies are equal, sorry, I apologize for this constant error that not all of these bodies, in which we call them, are equally important. It is true that Mr Janša said that this statistics did not take into account the appointment of this alternate member, who, however, ceased to function because of the incompatibilities of serving as a Member by appointment in this world. Whether this city belongs automatically to the Group of Members or not, it is a discussion that has been done to some extent, but it has not been completed, so this is not the case in this statistics. I would say to you, however, that the Republic Election Commission has three members and three alternate members and out of three members is one, that is 33 per cent and so on in the opposition, of the alternate members is one and is, says 33.333 on a proposal from the opposition. Then you have the supervisory committee of the Slovenian Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation, where there was a similar conversation, such as this. You have 9 members, of which 3 from the opposition, you say you have this again, 33 and so on. You have a supervisory board of the Slovenian Compensation Society, five members, of which two are from the opposition, say 40%. You have this unfortunate Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, where I will remind you of Mrs Possonchev's discussion, which said she does not know where her candidate belongs, the position and the opposition, and before the vote of course. From this point of view, the government's position is 80%. This is the only supervisory committee that really gives up if we deduct or add up this question to Mrs Pozsoncheva. You have the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success, which has five members, of which two are members of the opposition, is 40%. It is said that superiority is almost everywhere, except for one. In addition to the telecommunications world, the parliamentary groups succeeded with 7 proposals, two of which are "two", in the notes, opposition, which is approximately 26.27%. From this point of view, it seems to me that this is a business that is not as bad as it would like to show up in the case that we are discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. Last reported is colleague Juban. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I insist on expertise because monitoring the operation of the Fund is so sensitive and, above all, its presentation to the National Assembly, which is why this Supervisory Committee is also appointed. It is big financial matters and important decisions, and in particular their monitoring in this context, which, not to repeat indefinitely, we talk a lot, very much, often rightly. We agree with our colleagues in the Slovenian Coalition until then when we are talking about expertise, but if we are going to name one of theirs and only theirs, then it does not guarantee expertise. The main thing is that it is of another political definition, however, the expertise is ensured by a complete composition. I agree with my colleague Webber that this nonsense is a two-year appointment. This is quite true because in two years you barely get to know the work of one such fund, except for, say, some professionals who from the past or otherwise have mastered this area, which is difficult for me to understand. With regard to the very perceptions of Liberal Democracy, let's just say that I imagine that ours is far more qualified for this field of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	I no longer have applications for discussion and I conclude it. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of two years. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 63 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 42 voted in favour and 21 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal for a decision establishing a Council for Telecommunications. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Also not the secretariat. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups if anyone would like a word. [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Mr. President! I have quite a few questions here about the gathering of candidates for the establishment of a telecommunications council. It is mainly two questions which Mr Školč should most likely answer. This is about the representative of Simobil, who also, Mr Pahor, addressed a letter to you with a question of registering candidates for - I have here all the documentation that, even if you forget, you can get from me. On this basis, you handed over to Mr Školč, and then there was a written or written disputed question as to who is the one who is to be recorded from individual societies of people who would possibly perform in the world of telecommunications. It is clear here that Simobil addressed the Ministry of Information Society of the Candidate at the right time, which Mr Školč then notes that unfortunately their or their nominations were not received in time. I ask you now, Mr Pahor, for the first time since this letter was also addressed to you, and of course also to Mr Školč, why it was so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	The incoming letters, which are more than 10 days in the office of the President, go automatically, according to the content of the letter, to the Presidents of the competent bodies or other services, as well as to this letter, and to the members of the College. Does the chairman of the committee responsible want to explain? My fellow schoolboy, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	The Telecommunications Act provides that it is necessary to find candidates from experts, but it does not specify who might be the applicant. However, there is one provision that there should be no more than one third of those who are operators or who are employees of operators. As you know, it's an 11-member telecommunications council that has to start this month. [[If this is important, I can also quote all these articles in detail.]] With work. From this point of view, the Election, Appointment and Administrative Affairs Commission opened the appointment process in a way that called on the parliamentary groups to register candidates. At that meeting, a representative of the Ministry of Information Society proposed that they should also be proposing. Kwiaz did not unanimously accept this proposal. Therefore, Members' groups were invited to register members, with a reminder of the restrictions on these nominations. Neither the Member Group nor Kviaz received Simobil's proposal for membership in this telecommunications world. I myself received a letter from Mr Dreml after Kviaz prepared his proposal for a decision at the assembly. Mr Dremelj simply said that they had sent - I suppose I do not have the documentation - the Ministry of Information Society's proposal was not forwarded to Kviaz by the Ministry of Information Society, and I assume that it is not to the National Assembly either, because the explanation given by the President of the Council holds that we receive the appropriate mail at the time of the day. We also cleaned all of this up in writing with Mr Dremlje. At Kviaz, we also received proposals from other proposers that considered them to be interested or professionally qualified. So we got a proposal, I think the Institute of Joseph Stefan, electrical engineering, electrical colleges, Mobileel, maybe someone else. All the suggestions I received on the table were delayed, and I will say again, for a day or two hours, they were given to the heads of the groups on the table to either adopt them or identify them. At the meeting of Kviaz, which prepared the proposal, all proposals were made and a decision was taken first to take account of and decide on the proposals of other applicants. We then decided together on those proposals put forward by the parliamentary groups and those made by other interested applicants. Kviaz was also reminded of this, or members of Kviaz, that there should be no more than 1/3 operators or employees in the membership of the world. It has been shown that there were 4 candidates on this list who accounted for in this group. One was proposed by Mobile, and I apologize, I will finish right away, and the rest were proposed by the parliamentary groups. With the agreed method of decision-making, we have drawn up a list that you have before you today, on which are 7 of these proposals from the groups of Members and 4 of the proposals from other applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. With regard to the question of Mr Čebul, let me explain that Mr Dremelj sent a letter to the National Assembly on Friday 15 June. The office was admitted on the 19th, on the same day submitted to the Commission and Mr Školč, President of the Commission, replied to this letter to Mr Dreml a day later. You want a word? A fellow onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Mr President, I do not agree with this interpretation. All this collection I have at my disposal shows otherwise. It is also now a question, or not least a replica, to Mr Školč, who says that the representatives of operators by company or company should be in this composition are two Mobitel representatives, because it is a third-party issue, which is finally strongly connected to Mobil. It's just that Simobil was running for office. In any event, the answer was to send his candidacy directly to the National Assembly. Thus, these paths to Simobil were somehow crossed, in a nutshell, to arrive at these roles in due time, according to reference. It is the answer of Mr Školč, who says, "Unfortunately, among the proposals that the Commission of the National Assembly for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs received, there was no proposal of yours, which is why it could not be taken into account." No, that's not true. Given that the bitter taste in such behaviour is supposed to be, I would suggest that this point should be withdrawn from the next meeting and that these matters should be clarified and possibly reopened to the Elections and Appointments Commission, and that Simobil should also be included in this Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	My explanation was, as always, procedural and not substantive. This correspondence will also be served to the Members and Members, if you so wish. As we say, as soon as we received the letter, we gave it to the committee responsible. The following day, the president replied to the letter, so that correspondence is in the file and you can get it. From a procedural point of view, there's not, like you said, any embarrassment. However, if they are of a content nature, of course the National Assembly will decide by vote. A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	I would like to make two more clarifications to Mr Chebul about these three that can be considered operators or representatives of operators. One was suggested - of those on the list - by the United List. It's Cibic and he's the president of the Ljubljana Cable Association. Does this have anything to do with the companies Mr. Onion talks about? I don't know. The second is Ivica Kranjčevič, who is the representative of Mobitel; and the third is Mr Pavel Žakelj, who is employed as management advisor in Telekom and proposed by your parliamentary group. The fourth to be recorded was Mr Marjan Dora, who is employed in the Murska wave, who is also considered to be one third more than possible. Second thing to say. Kwiaz did not receive the proposal you claim to have received and was therefore unable to follow it. Nor is it, I will say, a reason to repeat the decision because there is no basis to specifically call on companies to make proposals or even more to harmonise their proposals. I don't know what a set of circumstances it is that led to Simobil's feeling now, I'll say, deprived. It was not possible, and also, as I told you in the previous explanation, it was the agreement of Kwiaz to invite only the parliamentary groups to propose candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I ask for peace in the Chamber because we will vote on the proposal for a decision establishing a telecommunications council. We're voting! There are 67 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 42 supported them and 23 voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Finally, on the 52nd item of the agenda, the decision-making and, of course, before that, the debate on the proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[Neither do I.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing a commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions. We're doing it! There are 57 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 55 voted in favour, 1 opposed. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the plan of today's work, we move on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CONTINUATION OF THE OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE LEGISLATION ON OLD SURVEILLANCE AND SOCIAL ACCOUNTS. I suggest we stop our work in a few seconds, get government representatives to join us, and then we will continue our work. We will continue without discussion first, since this has already been completed, to decide on the amendment under order number 1 on the Article in its entirety. [[...]] Article 76 will be decided in full. Can we move on? Do you have a checkup in front of you? [[No, no, ……]] Let's wait another half-minute. Is the government ready? Can I? The MPs and the MPs? We are on the 15th page of the review and will decide after the discussion is concluded, this is no longer possible, on Article 76. Is that right? Here. That's what I'm putting to the vote. We are voting on the proposal for Article 67. Of course I will ask now, because we will now be in the voting, I pray for peace in the Chamber. [[...]] We have our first problems right now. There's enough of us in the hall. I would just like to remind you that, after the current mode of voting, it will not be possible to vote unless we vote in a sufficient number. This means that those who do not wish to vote in favour or against must press at least the "quorum" button. There are enough of us in the hall to continue. Once again, I shall put to the vote Article 76. We're voting. I kindly ask colleagues and colleagues, if they can be identified by the proposal. 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On page 16, we have two amendments, under order number 1 and 2. I'm asking, does anyone want a word with both of them? [[Yeah.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Article 80. The proposed amendment also takes account of the increase in costs over the coming years. In view of the fact that the State has saved about 2.5 billion tolars by abolishing the car discounts under the Transport Tax Act and that the government's proposal for a large family allowance will be worth about a billion 800 million tolars, which is, of course, far less than it was intended for larger families, it seems reasonable for us to support an amendment in this article, which is somehow more favourable for families with multiple family members than the government has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much, colleague Tisovic. Anyone else want a word? Government representative, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	I would like to clarify that, for the first time, the assessment of the costs saved by the Government is, of course, hypothetical; for the second time, the proposal prepared by the mag. Janez Drobnič and Dr. France Tsukjat, this moment means a lower sum or amount that families would receive on our proposal; and thirdly, all the amounts that are in this law are nominal amounts and are aligned with the growth of living costs, so this would also be a derogation from the principle according to all the other rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I warn you, if the first amendment is adopted, then the second one is off. We will vote on that. Doesn't anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. I'm putting it to a vote. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues were present, 11 supported, 38 opposed. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal did not receive the necessary support. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. Please identify yourself. 50 of us are present, 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We can now vote on the text of Article 80 as a whole. I'm putting it to a vote. Please identify yourself. 46 of us are present, 45 for and none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 80 text received support. We have three amendments to Article 84. I'm asking, does anyone want a word about them? A representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that there is no debate on this point, an amendment was prepared here. I'd like to explain something. There have already been many speeches on categorisation and categories of children on the committee, which are also expected to be included in the text of the law. I must say that the contractor has calculated that, under the law on child guidance with special needs, there will also be a new regulation on the classification of children. Therefore, the applicant has in fact missed out on all the possibilities mentioned in Articles 47, 84 and 88 when it comes to children in need of special care. We propose that, with regard to the articles proposed here, we accept and support only the Government's proposal and, by the third reading of these texts, whether or not the rule will be adopted by this time, we duly amend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you for explaining that. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the amendments. First of all, the amendment under order number one to Article 84 on the 16th page of the review. We're voting. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to identify themselves. 51 colleagues and colleagues attended, 11 against, 38 against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number two to Article 84. We're voting. I respectfully request that you define yourself to the amendment under order number two to Article 84. There were 53 colleagues and colleagues present, 47 against, 1 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment received the necessary support. At the end, there is an amendment under order number 3. We're voting. We vote on the amendment under order number 3 to Article 84. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. I suggest that if the concentration falls, we would rather take a few minutes of recess during the session, otherwise I suggest that, if possible, we focus on work, maybe there after the end of this law we take a few minutes off and then move on to point 2. Now I'd like to ask everyone to gather as much as possible. Once again, we are voting on the amendment under order number 3. Please vote. I respectfully invite you to identify yourself for this amendment. 52 of us are present. 26 for and 22 for. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 22.]] The amendment received the necessary support. We are now voting on the full text of Article 84. The full text of the article shall be put to the vote. Please identify yourself. Once again, I will put the text of the article to the vote in full. The proposal is in the vote and I kindly ask my colleagues and colleagues to define themselves until the proposal. 48 of us are present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The proposal was adopted. We have an amendment to Article 86. Anybody want a word about him? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to 86. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote, and please, if you vote in favour, against or if you're in favour of a quorum key, abstain. 51 of us are present. There were 49 of them for the proposal, no one against it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We can now decide on Article 86 as a whole. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 86, as amended by the amendment. There are 50 of us present, and there were so many for, no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The text has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 88. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and point out that if an amendment under order number 1 is adopted, we will not vote on the second one because they are being excluded. First of all, I am putting the amendment under order number 1 to article 88 to the vote. We're voting. Please, if you'll identify yourself. For the amendments, there were 53 colleagues and 41 colleagues in favour of 9 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. This way we will not vote on another, except, of course, the whole article. The Article shall be voted on in full. Please identify yourself. There were 47 votes in favour of the text of Article 88 and 3 in favour of 51 Members. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. You do not have an amendment to the bill tabled by your colleague Potrč in your review. This is an amendment to the 91st member of the Group. Do we all have these amendments ahead of us? Can we discuss him and decide? Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am making an amendment to Article 91. We're voting on him. We're in the middle of a vote. I respectfully request that you identify yourself to the proposal. There are 53 of us present, of which 47 are for and 3 are for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will now vote on the text of Article 91 in its entirety. I'm putting him to the vote. 46 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of such a proposal, with 1 objecting to it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We have one amendment to Article 93. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to 93 on the 18th page of the review. Let's vote! Please, colleagues and colleagues, if they are identified by the proposal. 49 Members and Members were present, 47 were in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing he's got the necessary support. We are now voting on the full text of Article 93. Let's vote! We are voting once again on the text of the article. I ask you very politely to identify yourself for or against or by pressing the quorum button to allow us to decide on this amendment, this proposal. There were 50, 48 of them in attendance for, no one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment to Article 103. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number one to Article 103. We're voting. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present, 46 in favour, 4 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment got the required majority. Thus, we can now take a full vote on the text of the article. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 103. There were 46 for, 1 for, 49 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] This is also how we supported the text of Article 103. We have one amendment to Article 105. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Yeah.]] Dr. Tuck first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	I would just like to ask the applicant what has led him to change the key to the indexation or revalorisation of remuneration from the consumer price index to the starting salary for non-economic activities. We know that all these compensations are intended to cover the child's living needs and should, in this sense, remain, in fact, the key to valorisation or coordination remains the index of rising prices of living needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Someone else checked in. Yes, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to join this question with the following and would like to ask the proposer why a second sentence is needed in paragraph 1. In the first paragraph, it says, "parental benefits are aligned with the growth of the starting salary for non-economic activities", and then it says, "the coordination is decided by the Minister". I ask, on the basis of what criteria and why, if we have already written in the first paragraph, that coordination is done with the growth of the starting wage. So we don't object to this amendment in principle, but we think that this sentence is unnecessary because it gives the minister another opportunity to adopt some different harmonisations and harmonisation plans beyond the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain? Please. Both questions? Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	On the first question, I think the answer is relatively simple because parental benefits grow as wages are coordinated. The refund, if 100%, cannot grow as much as the wages grow. However, monetary revenues are rising by rising prices of living costs, which may be even more favourable than wage growth itself. Why does the Minister decide to coordinate? In order to be understandable and accurate dates since when something is valid. Otherwise, these are calculations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Is there any other explanation necessary? Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on the amendment to Article 105; if we adopt it, we will adopt the text of this Article at the same time. We are voting on the amendment to Article 105 and thus on the full text of the article. Please, if you'll identify yourself. 51 of us were present, 45 were in favour of the proposal, 5 opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that this is also how we adopted the text of Article 105. On the 19th page of our review, we have a proposal for a new chapter 3 and a new 105.a and 105.b. I ask, does anyone want to discuss this proposal? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. With regard to Article 105, I would like to ask the representative of the Government what the words "all changes" in the second paragraph of Article 105 mean. In our belief, it would be necessary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Excuse me! I think there's been a microphony. Just a minute! Does anyone have a phone that doesn't ring fancy or nice?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Shall we empty the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	[[Laugh.]] Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	So, if I repeat the question. The second paragraph states that everyone must communicate to the centre any changes relating to this law or rights relating to parental benefits. He asked the proposer why they had not foreseen what these changes were. Why didn't you write exactly, because then in the second article, 105.b., you're talking about that overpaid payments or unjustifiably acquired cash have to be returned. However, if it is not specified precisely, then there will be different interpretations of this Article in practice, and I fear that it will not be possible to implement one such as it is written.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Anyone else want a word? Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you. See, the third paragraph reads: "The changes to be communicated to the centre are in particular..." and here are the ones to be reported, and these then refer to the second paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	This paragraph also says "written". This is what I've been stressing, "they're special." What do you mean, "they're special"? We're back to the fact that it's not exactly mentioned. And then after the words "they're especially" make a double and say, "important changes in the current income of the family." What are "important changes"? For someone, a change of thousands may be important, but for someone who earns a huge change, millions may not matter. I would suggest that this article should be completed by the third reading and that you should spell out exactly what those important changes are, and then the article will become more consistent and much clearer. I also warn you to leave the word "especially" and to write decisively what it is; then there will be no different interpretation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	I would say so, but these are the necessary changes because they determine which income class you're in; if the number of children changes if the income changes to the family, it's clear that it's connected to being able to move to another scale. However, we agree with you that it is possible to complement this even better, and we suggest that we write down what they are until the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	But you insist on making an amendment? Do you insist on the amendment, Madam Secretary of State, we vote on it? [[Yeah.]] Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will also vote on the amendment proposal under order number 1 on page 19 of our review. Please define your position. We are in the middle of a vote on the amendment under order number 1 for a new III. Chapters 105.a and 105.b. There's 49 of us. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] This is how the proposal was adopted. We have one amendment to Article 106. Anybody want to talk about him? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 106. We will once again vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 106. I kindly ask my colleagues and colleagues, if they can be identified. There are 51 of us present. There were 40 for, like, six for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was adopted. We can now vote on the text of Article 106 as a whole. We vote and invite you to define yourself until the text of Article 106. 47 of us are present. 39 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] The text has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 107. Anyone want to talk about them? I'm guessing not, and I'm closing it. We turn first to the vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 107. Please let us vote. Please, if we can vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 107. 47 of us are present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 107. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 46 of us are present. 43 for, 1 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Thus, this amendment also amends the whole article. We have two amendments to Article 108. Anyone want to talk about them? Please, Comrade Dr. Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	In view of the fact that we have deleted the chapter on parental employment subsidies from the beginning and this continues through the relevant articles, it is also proposed that the Ministry and the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia should keep records of parental employment subsidies. It was said that the problem of subsidies would be passed on to other legislation or other sub-laws. We're here to delete the subsidy records in the first place. I propose that the issue of subsidies be resolved elsewhere so that before the third reading of this law they can also obtain a draft or in some way ensure where this will be resolved and how.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Of course, this refers to subsidies under this law. We cannot regulate something that will then be governed by another law or other rule. For the last time, however, I explained that there would be a new regulation in the autumn procedure, which would also subsidise such jobs. And I can't give you this guarantee because the government will accept it. Under this law, it's irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I take it that I do not and I conclude the debate. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 108 on our 21st page of the review. Please, let's vote! We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 108. We're in the middle of a vote, please identify yourself. There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 40 for, and two for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Please let us vote. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 108 and thus on the text of Article 108. We will repeat this vote. Once again, I invite you to identify yourself in the vote on Article 108. This is an amendment under order number two. Please identify yourself. [[A voice from behind.]] There's enough of us in the hall. 54 of us are in the hall. I will once again ask my colleagues and colleagues to define themselves to - put to the vote - the amendment under order number 2. Please identify yourself before the amendment under order number 2. [[The voices in the background.]] Well, then this isn't about indiscretion. There's enough of us in the hall. I'm giving you 10 minutes off and we'll continue at 4:00 sharp. There's enough of us in the hall. I guess it's about other things. We'll pick it up at 4:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	We are voting for the third time on the amendment under order number two on the 21st page of our review to Article 108. If we accept the amendment, we will also completely amend Article 108. That's what I'm putting to the vote. We're voting. Please kindly, if you can identify yourself to the proposal. Please, if you can define yourself. There were 54 colleagues and colleagues present, 45 of whom were in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Thus, we have adopted this proposal and have therefore adopted the text of Article 108. We have two amendments to Article 109. Anybody want a word? Dr. Tucky.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	It follows from these amendments that the set of data to be collected is being expanded in order to monitor the situation and to keep all of these revenues clear and clear. However, there are quite a few of these data that are needlessly deepened and disseminated. If you look closely at what will be collected from the data, there are also some such data, such as household data, now that current accounts, savings books, non-resident accounts of foreigners and so on are being entered with the first amendment. Above all, I am disturbed by the second amendment of Article 109, which reads "health status data", not only by the health status of the child or the affected person, the one who is supposed to receive support, but by all family members. I don't know how you imagine that then all the health data of all of you, all of those family members, should be collected here in this place, of course, the data that even uncalled for people and the data that are sometimes very embarrassing, I tell you, very embarrassing. See, old diction or in the original text is said in Article 108, not data on health status at a time, but health reports and opinions needed to exercise the right to receive money. I think that's quite enough, quite enough. There is no need to know about sexually transmitted diseases, or perhaps artificial fertilization, or perhaps the AIDS that an individual has or may have, I do not know of any things that may be very embarrassing to an individual. For this reason, I propose that the 109th, so the second amendment in this sense, be corrected or not adopted, but this certainly does not necessarily mean that all the health data of all family members are collected.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I would like to explain that some articles specify when a medical condition is identified. And for example, for family members, see Article 20, when a father has the right to maternity leave, when this is also conditioned by the condition of a mother who is temporarily or permanently unable to maintain and raise a child. So, of course, for each article when it comes to this, of course, it is a complete nonsense to determine the health status of all members. It therefore states: "the records of the previous article shall contain the following personal data for the individual or his family members." It is said that it is related to the need to seek this information for specific rights, not just in general and for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Dr. Tucky.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	I think that this explanation would be completely acceptable if we accepted the previous dictatorship, which I repeat again and which I think is very correct and also achieves all the objectives that you are setting here. I quote, "the medical examinations and opinions necessary to exercise the right to money."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Someone else wants to take part in the debate, or we'll finish it. I'm closing the debate. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 109. Let's vote! I ask you kindly to define yourself before the amendment under order number 1 to 109. There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present. 42 voted in favour, 11 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on the amendment to amend Article 109 in its entirety. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. Please identify yourself by the proposal. For this proposal, of 54 colleagues, 40 voted against and 10 voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 10.]] The text of Article 109 is adopted. We have two amendments to Article 110. Anybody want a word about them? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 110. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 110. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. 45 supported them, one or one opposed or opposed him. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing he's got the required majority. I propose that we still vote on the amendment to amend Article 110 in its entirety. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 49 are present. 43 for, no one against [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The text of this Article is thus harmonised. On the 24th page of our review we have two, so we have a proposal for a new 110.a and 110.b. Anyone want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to 110a. We're voting. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 110a. 54 of us are present. 46 was in, 3 were in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Please identify yourself by the second amendment. There are 54 of us present. 47 of us were in, 3 of us were in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal received the necessary support. And we are still voting on Article This concludes the vote on Article 110. [[...]] We have one amendment to Article 111. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we move on to the amendment under order number 1 to Article 111 on the 25th page of our review. Please identify yourself to this proposal. 47 of us are present, 40 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has received the necessary support. We are still voting on Article 111 as a whole. Please identify yourself. We vote on the text of Article 111 in its entirety. For such a proposal, out of 51 attended 43, 2 were against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 116, which is to say, a proposal for a new 116.a. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I shall put the proposal for a new 116.a. to the vote. We are voting on the proposal for a new 116th paragraph. There are 51, 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Three amendments are tabled in Article 117. Anybody want to talk about them? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss the first amendment to Article 117, which states that Article 117 is deleted. So the law that we now adopt may or may not be good; for example, it is good and has good solutions. But what really bothers us in our group is that the obligations under this law are being transferred, I would say, into some future. It is supposed to start with what I know, some in 2002, some in 2003, some in 2004, and such articles are in this law against the end, where it refers to the application of the State's obligation to beneficiaries - such articles are: 117, 118, 119, 121, then 121, which is written twice - I warn the applicants! - twice is written the same article, I don't know if it's a mistake; and then 122.b. Therefore, I would not like to advertise with all of these articles, so I have referred to this Article 117. And when I think and look at it that way, I think it's more like a political programme that someone is promising, that the government is promising, what it will do if it's still in power in 2004. I think that the laws should be written in such a way that the matters promised by the government should enter into force even during a period of a government, but not that this period is being transposed and somehow imposed, I would say, under the burden of those who might constitute a government team in 2004, when most of the provisions contained in this law should also enter into force. That is why our Group will support the deletion of these articles, because we are convinced that the obligations they speak, say, of parental allowances, of parental allowances for the father and so on, should actually be in force earlier than in 2003 and 2004, as set out in this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you. The reasons for the delay in the exercise of individual rights contained in the proposals are very different. One of these is to start running only on the date of the adoption of the law, the rights of insurance under this law. The second reason is that we need and establish an information system that can only be established through the adoption of this law and will then be able to exercise and implement certain rights. Therefore, the Government has also proposed that, in accordance with the introduction or preparation of the information system, the implementation of certain rights should also be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Comrade Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I can agree with that, but we must say that I fear that when these laws are so written that this law will somehow, as was the case with the Children's Supplement Act, be about the universal child's allowance. First, this matter was postponed, and then, when it had to be implemented by law, the great coalition in this House changed the law and corrected the matter. Well, I'd like the laws to be written on some realistic assumptions. So, if the government is aware that there is no financial possibility in this country, then it is pointless that we also promise and say some things, and in 2004 you will be able to do so. It feels the same to me as if you said something to someone in the mirror and you told them, what's in the mirror is yours and what's in my hand is mine. So, the government is supposed to take this matter seriously, because you can still fix it until the third hearing and maybe shorten these hands to some real, to some, I would say, a real deadline relationship, but not that you're planning things there by 2004, when we know that the elections will happen sooner and then again, maybe not Bayuk's or some other government, have to implement some of the laws that this Parliament is adopting here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Although, of course, you can also promise changes in government and some other ratio of power, I think that this law and these proposals have a completely different nature than the universal child allowance and the height of the child supplement. The reason we gave him up is that we've talked so much about them that it really doesn't make sense to reopen this debate. However, I think that all the arguments I have listed are correct and that - I would say so: given that it is already known to the public what rights this law brings, but no government would have hoped to withdraw these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I will conclude this debate. I warn the National Assembly that the adoption of the first amendment would mean that the second and third are excluded from the decision. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number one to 117. We're voting. Something's not gonna be right. I have to cut the vote. I repeat the vote. I'll try again. I'll ask our technical staff if they can help us. I will try again to allow the vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 117. Good. We'll wait for friendly associates from the technical service. I invite the National Assembly to decide by vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 117. Let's vote! We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 117. Please, if you can define yourself. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 20 for, 34 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposal did not receive the necessary support. We will therefore decide on the amendment under order 2 to 117. Let's vote! [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Retreat? [[...]] I'm calling off the vote. Did you announce this withdrawal, Comrade Brenčič?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Mr. President! There's a notice of withdrawal in the review. And since we're on amendment number two now, it says "announced withdrawal" and I'm withdrawing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	We have no choice here but to be as precise as we can be. Article 193 states: "The amendment's proposal may be withdrawn or amended until the beginning of the vote on the amendments to the article to which the amendment has been proposed." This would mean that we have to vote so that we do not now create a precedent to which we must resort. That is how we will put this amendment to the vote. If I understand correctly, you're going to see for yourself that he's not accepted. Is that right? [[Yeah.]] We will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 65 are present, 17 are present, 46 are present. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And we can also decide on the amendment under order number 3 to 117. We're voting. Amendment under order number 3 to Article 117. 57 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 44.7 against them. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was adopted. This way we can decide on the text of Article 117 in its entirety. We're voting. We are voting on Article 117 as a whole. Please identify yourself. There are 54, 43 for and 6 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The Article has been adopted. An amendment has been tabled by Article 118, which has been withdrawn. The government has withdrawn the amendment. Article 118? Is he retired? Please don't make any wrong decisions, just for a second. It says here it was a retreat. We'll check it out. The proposer is the government, and also colleague Drobnic and colleague Tsukati. The amendment remains in procedure. Yeah. We will therefore decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 118. Anybody want a word on this? [[Nobody.]] I shall put to the vote an amendment under order number 1 to Article 118. 58 of us are present, 42 for, 9 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment has been adopted and thus the article is deleted. And we can go over the amendments to Article 119. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The amendment is being ruled out. If the amendment is adopted under order number 1, the second amendment becomes irrelevant. I shall put the amendment under order number one to the vote. We're voting. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 119. 62 of us are present, 14 for, 43 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment was not accepted. And we can decide on an amendment under order number 2 to Article 119. We're voting. We vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 119. There are 57, 48 for, one for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are voting on Article 119 as a whole. Please identify yourself. There's 55, 47 in front of us, four in front of us. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the text of Article 119 is adopted. Four amendments have been tabled for Article 121. Anybody want a word about them? My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing the first and second amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Comrade Brenčič withdraws the first and second amendments. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3 on the 28th page of our review. We're voting. Please identify yourself. It's 56 of us, 44 of us, 5 of us. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment under order number four to vote on. Please identify yourself. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. The amendment under order number 4 was voted on by 47 colleagues, 41 in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are now voting on the whole article. We're voting! We are voting on the whole article. Please identify yourself. The text of the Article was adopted. That was the vote of 46 colleagues and 55 colleagues, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. One amendment has been tabled for the 122nd Article. Anybody want a word? My friend Brenčič is withdrawing the amendment. We have a proposal for a new 122.a and 122.b. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We only have to decide on one amendment. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1, so to speak, for the new 122.a and 122.b. We're voting. Please define yourself as new 122.a and 122.b. 50 of us are present, 45 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On the back of our review, we have an amendment to Article 123. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 123. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number one to Article 123. Please identify yourself. There are 51, 45 in attendance, no one against us. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We are voting on the whole article. I respectfully invite you to define yourself to the proposal for a full Article. 52 of us are present, 48 for, no one's against. (The vote was 48.)(Nobody.) This is how Article 123 was adopted. We have an amendment under order number one to 124. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number one to 124. Please identify yourself. 41 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] We are also voting on the text of Article 124 in its entirety. We're voting. We are voting on 124th Article of the bill as a whole. There are 55, 50 of us present for it, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] Thus the proposal was adopted. We are finally deciding on an amendment under order number one to Article 125 - this is also the last amendment to the review. We're voting. There are 57, 49 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still fully voting on the article. That's Article 125. Please define ourselves before the full text of the article. A total of 52 49 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour and 1 opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] This is how we adopted this last proposal. Therefore, the National Assembly may proceed to the debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Does anyone want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. I put this proposal to the vote. We decide on the remaining articles. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present, 51 for, no one against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. That way we can go to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word on that? Because he doesn't want to, we're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We vote on the title of the law. We vote on the title of the law. 58 of us were present, 55 of us were for the title of the law, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Anybody want a word on that? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on this proposal. We vote on the proposal that the draft law for third reading be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Please identify yourself. There were 48 of us present, 47 of us in favour of this proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - First draft law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications by Member States of the European Union for the implementation of regulated calls for action in the Republic of Slovenia. I invite a government representative to join the National Assembly. So we're at the 12th item of the agenda. I'm asking a representative of the government, does he want a word? Keep your breaths calm. Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. We have before us one of the laws in the package of so-called European legislation, namely the law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for citizens of the Member States of the European Union for the exercise of regulated professions. This is a law that will serve as a basis for the implementation of later ones, I will say, the conditions of free movement of persons. The law itself, as prepared and submitted, is in line with the European legal order, with existing directives. The basis for drafting this law is in the national programme of adoption for the adoption of the acquis of the European Union and corresponds to the characteristics of our legal system. The draft law systematically regulates the procedure for the recognition of qualifications to nationals of the Member States of the European Union. The law itself, as it is prepared, provides for a comprehensive regime for the recognition of all the qualifications laid down in those Directives. It shall provide for a uniform procedure by the Office for the Recognition of Qualifications and shall provide the necessary legal clarity as to the conditions for obtaining a decision on the recognition of qualifications for the performance of a regulated profession. Let me remind you that a few days ago we discussed the labour market development strategy, in which we made it very clear that Slovenia is trying to deregulation a certain number of professions and, of course, this law before us includes quite a number of still regulated professions in Slovenia, which we will have to deregulation over the next few years. And what is important: in this way we regulate the virtually vertical link with the ministries responsible for the fulfilment of the conditions for the performance of individual professions, on the one hand, while allowing members of the European Union to do whatever is necessary in one place to obtain an appropriate statement on the conditions of professions in the Republic of Slovenia. What is very important is that this act defines that qualifications for third-country nationals will also be recognised in one place and in the same procedure, and this law also regulates the way and system of recognition of qualifications and professions of all those citizens acquired in the former Republic of Yugoslavia before 25.6.1991. The law itself, as laid down, provides for and proposes the establishment of a special office, of course, through this Office, all the necessary legal and administrative procedures for the issue of the relevant certificate or recognition of the profession are under way; of course, through the procedure, the Office will cooperate with all the ministries responsible for issuing the relevant certificates and conditions necessary for the performance of the particular profession. What I would like to stress in particular is that the Office, as proposed, is expected to start its establishment this year. Indeed, some tasks need to be carried out before Slovenia enters the European Union and, of course, mainly in the area of creating the necessary databases and in particular in cooperation with the necessary deregulation of professions, could also be a step closer to implementing this our labour market development strategy. Well, the fact that we are proposing to enforce the law in this year begins at the time of entry, but of course there are certain tasks, regardless of when they begin to be implemented, but they are necessary at the beginning of the end of this year or at the beginning of 2002. The law itself, as it has been put forward somewhere, is expected to be - or is - fully in line with the European legal order and to follow all the intentions of individual directives in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, which is a competent working body. I invite the President to his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, Members of Parliament and Members, distinguished Secretary of State Staša Baloh Plahutnik. Well, the Committee, as the parent committee for health, work, family, social policy and disabled persons, considered the bill at its 7th regular meeting on 7 June 2001. In addition to the draft law and the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, the members of the Committee also took note of the comments made by the Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine and the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia to the law. The opening presentation of the law was given, as today, by the State Secretary. However, it should be said that the members of the Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Secretariat, which was also given orally by the representative of the Secretariat, and in which he warned or commented on the technical nature of Article 1, Article 4, Article 5, and Article 7, paragraph 3, and Article 9. Finally, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decisions in accordance with Rule 185 of its Rules of Procedure. First conclusion: "The proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for nationals of the Member States of the European Union for the exercise of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia, first consideration, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second treatment." Second conclusion: 'The draft law for second reading shall be drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the following position: 'The proposal should take due account of the comments made by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs.' And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President. He wants to keep his word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. No one wants the word, so I invite the Ambassador and the Member of Parliament to speak. There is also no application for debate, so I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for nationals of the Member States of the European Union for the exercise of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia, the first reading, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Does anyone want to take the floor on this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall so that they can decide on this decision. We vote on the proposal for a decision. We'll wait a minute. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues to join us in the main hall? I think there's enough of us in the hall. So once again, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision. I very kindly ask you to identify yourself before the proposal for a decision. Please, time is running out. There's enough of us in the hall. Given that there was no controversy, I do not believe that there was a political problem, but I do not think I would violate the rules of procedure if I once again invited my colleagues and colleagues to vote; otherwise, of course, we will have to give a ten-minute recess. [[...]] There's enough of us in the hall! Once again, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision. Please, very politely, if you can define yourself "for", "against" or press "quorum". I'm asking you very nicely. And now we have no choice but to give our colleagues a 10-minute break. However, I would like to say that there are enough of us in the hall to make decisions. Ten minutes, proceed at 16.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	We will vote on the proposal for a decision on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for citizens of the Member States of the European Union to carry out regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia at first reading, so that this is a suitable basis for preparing a proposal for a second reading. This will be the third decision, so I politely invite you to come back to the hall. There's an hour's work ahead of us today. After the end of point 12, we will proceed with point 13 and tomorrow with both decisions related to the two-thirds majority, as we have concluded. We're still waiting for Comrade Kebrich. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the mother labour body that the proposal for a law at first reading is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law. I put this proposal to the vote. Please identify yourself to the proposal. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 52 of us are present. There were 50 for it, no one was against it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] This is how the decision is adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the position prepared by the parent working body and recorded in the labour body report, as well as to a discussion on the complementary proposal to the position of the parent working body. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We are voting on the complementary proposal. I ask that we decide by vote. Majda Shirca's colleague made a supplementary proposal. Please identify yourself with him. 47 of us were present, 44 of us were in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for positions. We're voting! I am kindly asking the National Assembly to define a full position to the proposal. 51, 45 supported us, no one opposed us. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the views are fully adopted, and thus I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We have a competent minister with us, and I invite him to have the opening statement. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Dear Members and Members! You have before you the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Data Protection Act. The main purpose of this Act is to ensure independent monitoring of compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data and, of course, all related mechanisms. It is the implementation of the obligations laid down in particular by the Directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data - this is Directive 95/46 of the European Union. Of course, we also take into account the Council of Europe Convention 108 on the protection of personal data in relation to the automatic processing of personal data. Of the many ways in which we can ensure this independent protection, independent supervision of the protection of personal data, we have decided, in the proposal before you, to strengthen the powers of the data protection inspector so far and to set up a personal data protection inspectorate for this purpose, that, of course, we will also provide more detail for his powers and working methods. At the same time, we have also identified specifically and distinctly the powers of the Ombudsman in this area, which exist, of course, even without this law, but by this law we provide the necessary framework for the Ombudsman's activities in this area. So it's some kind of two-step surveillance; the inspectorate's control and independent control by the Ombudsman. In addition to this key topic, the amendment to Article 3 is also processed, so a clear legal basis is provided for the operations of administrative authorities which are not to unduly burden customers with the collection and transmission of those data which the competent authorities may collect on official duty. Let me just mention that, in view of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, and also in view of the comments made to the draft law by the Ombudsman, we have put in place amendments which, I think, fully follow these opinions and comments, and in this way we are more clearly shaping those solutions where there have been comments. At the same time, we do not, in particular, repeat those provisions relating to the Ombudsman, which are already duly regulated in the Human Rights Ombudsman Act itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Doesn't seem to be the rapporteur. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[No one wants to.]] Since no one wants to debate or debate any more, I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We are moving on to the debate, I'm sorry, we still have to vote. We're voting, please. Unfortunately, not enough votes have been cast, I ask that we vote again. Another time. Please. Looks like there's not enough concentration. I heard a voice, it was too fast, so please repeat it. Vote, second time! Vote, second time! I'm taking ten minutes off. Let's move on to 17.17.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	I ask fellow Members and fellow Members to take their seats. We'll vote for the third time! This is the third time we've voted. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 for, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. Members are requested to take into account the amendments of 22.6.2001. For the new A1 article, we have two amendments, which are actually excluded or equal. Does anyone want to discuss it, please? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We are voting on the first amendment to Article A1. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; the second amendment is thus irrelevant. We have Article 1 under consideration with two amendments, which are identical. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. Please, we're voting! There are 54 Members and Members present, for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted; the second amendment is thus irrelevant. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. 54 Members and Members present, 47 for, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 has been adopted. We are considering the amendment to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please! 52 Members and Members present, 47, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] Article 2 was adopted. We're looking at Article 3. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote, please - on the amendment to Article 3, of course. 49 Members and Members are present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The Article is deleted. The amendment to Article 6 is not correctly located and falls within Article 7. This is why we have two amendments in Article 7 - the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Would anyone please discuss it? Because he does not want, I conclude and we move on to a vote on Article 7 under number one, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If this is adopted, the amendment of the committee will be irrelevant. We're voting, please! We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted and the amendment of the committee is irrelevant. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 47 Members and Members, 41, against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] Article 7 was adopted. We're dealing with Section 8 with one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding and moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please! There are 52 Members and Members present, for 45, for 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment to Article 8 was adopted. We still vote on Article 8 as a whole. Let's vote, please! There are 50 Members and Members present. For 43, no one's against it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We have a section 9 and an amendment under consideration. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please! There are 54 Members and Members present. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing paragraph 9 is deleted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please! There are 54 Members and Members present. For 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the title. Let's vote, please! There are 53 Members and Members present. For 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles A1, 1, 2, 3, 7, 8 and 9 have been adopted in the second reading draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Not one, not the other. I ask about the coordination under Rule 198(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Since the law is mutually coordinated, we will vote on the law in full. We vote, please, on the whole law! 51 Members and Members present. 47 for, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I thank the representative of the government. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, a proposal for a bond law. The draft act was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State Hinko Jenull has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members. The government proposes to adopt a proposal for a bond code at second reading. The Bond Code is intended to replace the Bond Relations Act that we are still applying and was adopted in 1978. The 1978 Bond Code regulated the classic contractual relations and relied on the most modern solutions to the Swiss Bond Code at that time, which is why it has been able to endure without any major interference to date and is still suitable for these relations and has therefore been used as a basis for the new Slovenian Bond Code. This one is divided into two parts. The general part and the contractual part. In general, the basic principles are adapted to the new constitutional order and the concept of social property relations is cleared. The principle of the uniformity of bond law is based on uniform rules, irrespective of entities which are party to bond relations, allowing for derogations from the general rules on a case-by-case basis only for economic contracts. In the section on obsolescence, a new provision is made for the extension of the compensation claim for corruption, with Slovenia fulfilling its obligations under the Civil-Legal Convention on Corruption. A new rule has been added to the provisions of the compensation law, under which non-profit damage to legal persons is also legally recognised. In the contractual part of the Code we regulate additionally those contracts that have been in such a regulation all the time, other contracts that were previously governed by the old pre-Yugoslovak rules, namely a gift contract, an up-to-date contract and a social contract. From the law on inheritance we transfer to the treaty on extradition and distribution of property the contract on life-long survival and re-regulation of the consumer contract, which has not been regulated in our legislation so far, but is very often used according to Slovenian legal tradition and practice because it has a long and good tradition. Thus, the bond code contains all the contracts that our business practice knows. The contract is deleted from the proposal as an instrument for securing claims on movable property because it will be governed by a new code of real law. The Agency Treaty is in line with the European Directive governing the contractual relations between the trade representative and the contracting authority. Banking contracts and other banking transactions are to be regulated by the Financial Contracts Act and are therefore not regulated by this Code. However, it is established that the current provisions of the Bond Relations Act apply to the adoption of such a provision. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The contract also regulates health insurance resulting from new forms of contract insurance in the field of health. [[...]] A new chapter has also been added which governs communities which are not regulated by the rules so far. [[The basis is summarised according to German rules]] . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a code. The Chairman of the committee, Mr Lavrinc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that this is a very difficult matter, which, I must be honest, we haven't discussed much on the content, especially because it's more of a domain of top legal experts. [[After all, look who's all signed up to be involved in the drafting of the law.]] . Due to the Secretariat's warning that the law, as it is ready for the second reading, has been substantially amended by the law, and this has also been acknowledged by the proposaler, supplemented by the fact that he has been trained, with new knowledge, we have devoted a number of words to how to treat the bill as properly as possible, particularly in order to ensure that it is addressed as soon as possible, since the law has been in the process for quite some time and, of course, to satisfy the business provisions. We have relied on our decision on the business option under Article 188, paragraph 2, which states that, if decided to do so, the law can be returned to the first hearing. Well, and this is our first proposal for a decision. Then, of course, we should convene a meeting of the committee and prepare some appropriate amendments, what was undeniable also by the proposer - I think it is one or two amendments - and then the ability to make a second reading at this meeting. That would be all that matters to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] The mother's working body proposes that the proposal for a bond code be re-examined. In this regard, the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. Members and Members, please calm down. We're voting on the proposal. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 44, for 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The proposal was adopted. That's how we're at first reading. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do the parliamentary groups want a word? [[They don't want to.]] Do individual Members want a word? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving to a conclusion, to a discussion on the proposed decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The National Assembly at the same meeting shall hold a second reading of the proposal for a bond code in the text submitted for first reading." Amendments to the bill may be tabled until Thursday 28.6. including Thursday 28.6. Does anyone want a word? [[..]] Since no one wants to, I am moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. Excuse me? The word is Lavrinc, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	As chairman of the committee, I would like to express my concern that I will not be able to convene a committee until then. As was the case with the debate, I am here to understand that, in the opinion of the members of the Committee, an amendment, one amendment, is necessary. However, we have not, nor have we, completely concluded the discussions on the proposals of the Chamber of Economics. At least that's what the board members call me. So, for me, the professional things are cleared up, but of course, if the desire is to have a discussion and, of course, to allow applicants, Members, to make an appropriate amendment, it would be better for me if we gave a slightly longer deadline. But I'm asking, of course, because I have no idea what you're talking about at the President's College, if this meeting is going to take place next week, which I picked up here after the rounds. Then, of course, I would sincerely like to have the power to postpone this point or extend the deadline for making amendments and, of course, also to hold a debate on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you. May I ask if there is any concrete proposal for a date?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	My proposal is linked to your explanation. If the meeting of the National Assembly is still due next week, then I would like to request that this deadline be Tuesday and that we then hold a meeting of the Committee, give until Tuesday time to submit the amendments, Tuesday evening after the meeting or hold a meeting of the Committee this afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	The agreement to hold the meeting for the second week is not yet, but it is true that there is a proposal on this. And if, of course, the proposal in college is adopted, then the meeting will also be held next week. But I say again if the proposal is adopted at a college meeting. In this case, of course, the deadline could be extended. Could you be more specific, Mr. Lavrinc, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	Then I suggest that this is up to Thursday and, of course, we sit down Friday morning and try to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	So amendments to the bill can be tabled up to and including Thursday. Anyone else want to discuss this proposal? Because he doesn't want to, please let's make a decision. A decision will not be taken if one third of the Members oppose it. Let's vote, please. There are 56 Members and Members present. Forty-seven, versus five. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. The 15th item, this is the next item on the agenda, will be discussed tomorrow. That's why we're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Second defense of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Protection Before Fire. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Please. Quiet Rich, Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Honourable Vice President, Honorable Assembly. Allow me first to excuse the absence of a minister for having an international delegation and to point out in my introduction only some of the most [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	Please, one moment. I ask Members and Members to calm down and listen to the government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	on this proposal for a law. The fact is that Parliament adopted the proposed amendment of the law last year in its first reading, and in the text that was tabled for second reading in the first half of this year, we have taken into account all the proposals that have emerged, including the proposals of the Slovenian Fire Association. Since the first, this proposal differs mainly in the provision of fire charges for all financing of the acquisition of fire and rescue techniques and equipment in all firefighting units in the country. The proposal for a law specifies in the new second paragraph of Article 58 precisely the purposes for which the means of a fire charge may be used. The new, third paragraph provides that at least 70 per cent of the estimated annual revenue is intended exclusively for the co-financing of the acquisition of vehicles and fire protection and rescue equipment in municipalities. This takes into account the criteria for the distribution of these funds: the number of inhabitants, the size of the local community, the number of interventions at risk and the number of operational firefighters. The means of the fire tax, which are intended to co-finance the municipality, are thus changing from ongoing transfers to investments, so that they will, of course, be received by all local communities. The programme, which is at state level, is 30 per cent of the estimated revenues of the fire fee, is intended to be determined by the management of the Republic of Slovenia, with the consent of the fire union of Slovenia. With this we have also answered the question in the draft law whether, under the law on public finances, we can still maintain a parity committee in terms of the annual law on the implementation of the budget, which defines fire taxes as assigned revenue and budget expenditure. The answer is that these laws no longer provide for such an authority. That is why we did not foresee it even in the proposed amendments to the law, but we introduced this prior agreement of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia. This programme will be based on an annual programme for the implementation of the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters and similar plans will be adopted by the municipal councils in accordance with the law on protection against natural and other disasters. In view of the solutions proposed, the law will be enforceable in the next financial year. We have also examined in detail the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters and, following subsequent coordination, have concluded together that there is no need to amend the second and third paragraphs of Article 58. However, by means of a legal technical improvement, the amendment adopted by the home labour body improves the text of this Article. We have not had the opportunity to identify ourselves until another amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club, proposing to re-appointed or reintroduced into the law the institution of a parity committee at the level of the State. We do not oppose this amendment. However, I have said that such an authority is no longer provided for through the Public Finance Act or through every law on the implementation of the budget, and that it is essentially 30% of the annual estimated fire charges. In total - we meet a downward trend - about 850 million in the whole country. We have proposed that this programme be laid down by the Administration for Protection and Resolution, with the consent of the fire liaison of Slovenia. In view of the above, the honourable assembly suggests that you support and adopt the law in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The Defence Committee has considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act. He was, of course, aware of this proposal and of the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly on the draft law. Mr Janko Deželak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, as well as Mr Miran Bogataj, State Undersecretary of the Ministry of Defence, introduced the text of the law. The representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs stated that the Secretariat has no substantive comments on the proposal for a law. The comments concerned in particular the clarity of the provisions of Article 1 of the draft law and, of course, the clarity of the provisions of the new second and third paragraphs of Article 58. The representative of the secretariat also stated that the secretariat had in its opinion proposed certain amendments and editorial corrections to the legislative proposal, but did not insist on them, as it had been found in the interview with the representatives of the proposer that the proposed legislative provisions were sufficiently consistent and that they could be implemented - that is, comments had also been made. The invited representative of the fire liaison of Slovenia explained that the fire liaison did not agree with the original proposal for a bill, which was corrected, and so the fire liaison agrees with the new proposal for a text that is now before us. During the discussion, the members of the Committee positively assessed the provisions of the law setting out the funds exclusively for co-financing the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment, which, of course, has a positive impact. They considered that professional firefighters organised in the Slovenian Association of Professional Firefighters, which is somehow excluded by the current proposal, should also be involved in the country-level planning process in addition to the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue and firefighting. It was pointed out that it was not good for the new proposal to repeal the committees defined in Article 58, paragraph 6, of the existing law. Comments were made that the draft law devotes little attention to fire prevention and the importance of insurance in preventing and remedying the consequences of fires, or does not stimulate local communities and insurance companies in terms of prevention. The problem of the costs of firefighting companies for the education of their members or of the uneven distribution of costs was highlighted. Several transport and daily costs are borne by those fire companies that are more distant from the educational centre. It was mentioned that the draft law does not specify precisely where resources will be provided to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting equipment. It has been mentioned that the many problems we are experiencing in the field of firefighting, due to the complexity and connectivity of the problem, should be resolved gradually. The view was also expressed that laws are all too often addressing small systemic problems, which mainly relate to the reallocation of funds, and we do not incorporate prevention and the use of new technological and technical discoveries and fire-fighting solutions into laws. After the discussion, the Defence Committee, taking into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, in cooperation with the representatives of the proposer, drafted and adopted the following amendment to Article 1: 'The words 'fifth and sixth' shall be replaced by the words 'fifth', and a new paragraph shall be added at the end of the text reading 'Sixth paragraph shall be deleted'. The Defence Committee had no comments on the other articles and the title of the bill and therefore supported the proposal. Therefore, the Defence Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of the second reading, to support the text of the proposed law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, together with the amendment of the Committee. The Defence Committee also agreed that the Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Fire Department of Slovenia, will prepare a consultation on protection and resolution issues in full by the end of 2001. The Committee proposes that we support this text of the law together with the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, March, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. I would like to brief you on the position of the LDS Group on the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act. In order not to repeat the things that have already been said, I will say those positions that may not have been heard so far, but in part Mr Botaj announced them in his speech. I must say that, in essence, with the amendments to the law, liberal Democrats and Democrats are pleased that the initial proposal in the first reading has been substantially amended, in particular in relation to the proposed allocation of these funds between the municipal and state levels, by reiterating the ratio of 70:30 in favour of municipal funds in the use of these means of fire taxes. The fact is that these funds are often the only means by which congregations can help themselves to acquire demanding firefighting techniques. We are pleased that the government has changed the law in that part that speaks of the purpose of the funds, for many times and many times it has happened that these funds were inadvertently spent from the municipal budget. Now this as investment transfers will be intended exclusively for the purpose of purchasing firefighting equipment and other activities. You have before you, I think you all have now received, including the amendments tabled by our Group of Members. The main issue is that we did not agree to the abolition of committees sharing or managing the fire tax, both at the state and local levels. That is why we have tabled an amendment reintroduced by the committee or in fact not to be abolished, as was the Government's proposal. This committee consists of representatives of voluntary firefighters, representatives of professional firefighters and representatives of other activities from insurance, research, school and economic activities, this is what the current law actually takes into account and this committee has a composition. At the same time, of course, this committee also has a representative of the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. We also, of course, disagree in this regard with the abolition of the sixth paragraph, which abolishes these committees in local communities. These committees were represented again by representatives of firefighters, professional and voluntary, insurance and the competent authorities of the local community. This would provide somehow interdisciplinary control and also decisions on the use of these funds. We believe that the abolition of these committees would result in a number of dissatisfaction, especially at the local level, in the allocation of these funds, and I think that these committees have been on the run and have ensured the purpose of these funds. Otherwise, we agree with the bill submitted by the Liberal Democrats and the Liberal Democrats of our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you. Is there a representative of another delegation? Petan, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Respectable. The law therefore regulates the fire protection system and therefore covers a comprehensive approach from organising, planning, exercising control and, of course, what is most important, financing this area. The fire protection service has a long tradition in Slovenia. The organised approach has been known in our country for 130 years and has been practiced in all times of our lives and also in many ways, and in particular in rural areas it exceeds the scope of basic activities. At that time, the conditions have changed, as well as the tasks that required an appropriate approach, to adapt to the situation. Through the development of technology, knowledge, an organised approach to the protection of lives, people, animals, property and national wealth has been put on ever-new demands and new receptions, which we have consistently successfully addressed. Our system has survived many countries, many rulers and also political systems. This proves that he is deeply committed to our society and that he has the support of people and that the organization is well placed. All of this requires us to maintain the system, to supplement it, and to remain operationally capable at a high level. The high level of volunteering of participants or operators in this fire protection system is particularly important. A large part of this system is represented by voluntary fire companies organised throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Historical conditions and facts make this organisation much better in the north and east of our country. This activity could probably also be given humanitarian status, but until it does, it deserves maximum support, of course, taking into account the potential of our country, the potential of our society and, of course, of our local communities. Each activity, and especially this activity, is conditional on financial means, as well as the work of voluntary fire companies. Companies acquire a lot of financial resources voluntarily and, of course, they also purchase equipment and, of course, they have to pay 19% of value added tax when purchasing this equipment You know the effort to reduce or eliminate this rate. It must be acknowledged that we also know zero rates, including in Europe, where they have long-standing value added tax, and this should be considered by us. Of course, this matter is governed by another law, and it is right that in this law, when it comes to activities and when we talk about equipment that this activity, of course, needs to be highlighted and, of course, that this fire protection system will be kept as operational and, of course, operationally capable. The Social Democratic Party of Slovenia supports this law. Of course, it also supports efforts to minimise the value added tax rate; the best, of course, would be a zero rate. Certainly better solutions than before will be supported and supported by this law and, of course, we also support the amendment voted by the Committee. If there are any other amendments, then we will support all those who will make it easier for the carriers of this fire protection activity to obtain equipment, to have as little cost as possible, and that this system, which is converted into our society, can continue to live on and, of course, on which we can also be proud and, of course, on which we can also count when the situation occurs when this system has to operate operationally. That's why we're going to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I interrupt by asking if any other parliamentary group would like to perform? [[...]] [[He doesn't want to.]] I interrupt this agenda item and please listen to the following notification. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will continue to discuss the 8th item of the agenda, which is the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and then the 15th item of the agenda, which is the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Today you have received a consolidated text of the draft Road Transport Act for third reading, within the framework of a rapid procedure. This is item 5 of the agenda and we will therefore consider this item after item 15 of the agenda. The assembly will then move on to the hearing of the 16th item, and in order to proceed. Thank you for your cooperation. Hello.
