ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, may I ask you to insert your cards so you can see how many of us there are right now? So far 39, which means we can't start work. At the same time, I ask all those who may still be in your offices to hurry to the hall so that they can start their work. We're not done yet, but it's been a few minutes past 10:00. I'm guessing we're on the clock. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Dr Andrej Bajuk, Jože Tanko, Dorian Maršič, Jože Kavtičnik from 12.00 p.m. on, Bojan Kontič, Ferry Horvat, Alojz Peterle for the afternoon part of the session and Pavel Rupar for the afternoon part of the session. That's how much notice I have so far. Presence in the hall - please, if you can look again if you have inserted cards - is 48. In short, I find that the assembly is concluded and can decide. Come on, please, find out who's here! Thank you very much. I note that 49 Members and Members are present; the assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very much! Today's continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 4th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on public agencies, and then we will move on to the remaining items in order. 3rd point, this is the proposal of the Veterinary Act, we will not start now, but we will do it in the afternoon part of the session. As a matter of fact, we're moving on to 4. Period of the day - the first draft of the law on public agencies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Please, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you a proposal for a law on public agencies proposed by [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Please, if you can speak directly into the microphone, because as soon as the paper is in between, you can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Yes, thank you very much. So you have before you a proposal for a law on public agencies, which the applicant has proposed to deal with quickly, but concerns have already been expressed on the parent's working body about the rapid procedure and with these concerns the applicant agrees. On the one hand, it is a matter of business concerns, and on the other hand it is also about the fact that some substantive issues have already arisen in the debate, which it is right to take time from the first and second readings and, of course, to find appropriate solutions within this space of manoeuvre. The Law on Public Agencies is part of the legislative reform of public administration. This reform is not only a legislative segment, of course, but is also taking place at the level of sub-legislative rules and operational measures. But this is one of those laws on which the European Commission's report on progress reminds us every year that public administration reform is taking place too slowly. It is therefore also a law which is included in the national programme for the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with the European acquis. The public agency is envisaged as a new state-of-the-art public law person, in addition to the existing status forms of public institutions, public funds and chambers, there is now a public agency, which at the same time represents a possible organisational form for the performance of administrative tasks or administrative services. It represents a more flexible form than the organisation of administrative tasks within ministries, and, of course, all comparative arrangements know this form, saying that the Anglo-Saxon system, says the United States of America and the United Kingdom, as well as the Scandinavian countries, particularly Sweden, know this form to a very large extent, i.e. a large part of the administrative tasks, particularly the exclusive ones - so implementation is carried out in such autonomous agencies. What is the purpose of setting up public agencies? First of all, this law is a system-wide status law that provides only the basis for the establishment of public agencies in specific areas. The purpose is, of course, those areas of operation of the administration that require a higher degree of autonomy or management in which greater rationality, more managerial management can be achieved, if excluded from the ministries, independence of the legal, organisational, human rights management etc. Of course, it must be immediately said that we will be very selective, careful and progressive in setting up public agencies. In fact, foreign experts, in particular Sigma, which helps to reform the public administration of candidate countries, point out that over-quantification of the administration can cause; for the first time, disintegration of the administration may result in a reduction of ministerial responsibility and may also lead to disintegration of the state budget. In short, it will have to be really selective and careful here. Desires for the establishment of public agencies - I can tell you this - in the state administration today are significantly greater than the legitimate needs, well-founded reasons. So, of course, there is no basis for disintegrating the administration in this law. Where they went in, they came to realize at some point that it was necessary for the administration to reintegrate and draw specific areas back into the ministry. The new "Organization menu" - if I may say so - will the new organisational structure of the state administration be visible when you also have before you a proposal for a new law on administration or a novel law on administration, and you will see that this organizational menu is oriented to allow for different forms of organisation. Level of autonomy: that is, from the organisation of the administrative area in the district, in the Ministry itself under the direct supervision and influence of the Minister, where the so-called "Hands on" approach, "Hands on policy" is needed, through the body in the composition. We intend to reduce the number of these bodies to that urgently needed measure. This organisational format will be appropriate for those areas for which it is necessary to remain in ministries, but require a certain degree of organisational, human resources, financial and functional autonomy. And the next step in the independence of administrative areas is, of course, public agencies. The public agency shall have independence in the legal field, in the field of governance, in the field of organisation, in the field of human resources and in the financial field. Legal autonomy means that the public agency is a separate legal person. Independence in governance means that the public agency has its own management body, that is, the Council and the Director. Both bodies are appointed a specific mandate and cannot be resolved prematurely without any ground of guilt. The Director shall be appointed in a public competition which shall be conducted in the manner necessary. This means that the unelected candidates have the possibility of appeal and the possibility of judicial protection. Organisational autonomy means that the Agency determines its own organisational resources, i.e. its internal organisation. Human resources autonomy means that human resources policy is in the hands of the Agency itself. Financial autonomy means that the Agency has its own [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	May I ask for peace in the hall? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	That the public agency has its own resources of revenue, allowing it, of course, to conclude a financial cycle outside the state budget - where it is rational. [[...]] This is also in line with the OECD guidelines recommending that, as far as possible, the payment of administrative services, including administrative fees, be linked as much as possible to the costs of these services. This is said to enable public agencies to adjust prices and tariffs cost-effectively so as to close the financial cycle and to manage financial resources more rationally. When will public agencies come into line, or in what areas will public agencies come into play? They will be taken into account, as stated where "Hands on policy" is not necessary, so such an approach is not necessary, where the current policy is not affected, but is determined in the long term; where there is a need for a greater degree of professional autonomy, which is ensured by the exclusion from the Ministry; where there is a need for resource autonomy; where there is a need for greater impact of users; and where, of course, there is also a need, particularly important, for the financial circle outside the State budget, to be rationally rounded. However, as we say, caution will have to be exercised. I have also presented the main solutions to the law through the presentation of individual elements of autonomy; that is, what legal, organisational, humane autonomy means. The transition period will be particularly important or will be the first step towards setting up public agencies. We believe that the most appropriate first step or first stage will be to test the establishment of a smaller number of public agencies, very selectively, and then to see how this organisational form works in practice. We know this part of it now, of course, because some public agencies, as you know, are already operating on the basis of sectoral laws. I would also like to point out that this status law does not close the possibility for agencies in different areas to regulate themselves differently, by means of sectoral laws, in order to recognise in particular areas a higher degree of autonomy to the public agency, perhaps a direct link to the national assembly and not to the executive branch of the authority. In short, different regional arrangements are also possible. However, the practical importance of this law is also that every area law can refer to this law when it speaks of a public agency in its field and determine the subsidiary application. So, all those issues that this law does not regulate should be subject to the Public Agency Act, so it can be determined. The proposer shall be informed of the views of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. Most of these views are of a more principled nature and are linked to other parts of the reform of the administration and, above all, to constitutional changes in this area. However, some comments are useful, well-founded and will be taken into account by the applicant. The proposer is also aware of the position of the national labour council's parent body, which underlines the need for even greater autonomy of public agencies. During the first and second readings, and of course also taking into account today's debate and today's conclusions of the assembly, the proposer will also examine whether the autonomy of the agencies can be further enhanced or loosened in specific areas: in the field of organisation, in the area of finance, and also in the field of governance - in particular, in the area of the design of the world as a management body or, more specifically, in the case of the creation of an act, it is possible to determine whether the creation act will also allow the world to be shaped by a "bottom up" principle; that is, by appointing, electing or delegating, if you wish, members of the Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I think that only the Committee's report is comprehensive enough to avoid being particularly tired of you, your respectable colleague and colleagues, with the content of the concerns raised in this debate. Perhaps I should focus mainly on the procedural part or the procedural part. As Dr Virant's representative said, the applicant also agrees that the law goes on a regular basis. This also raised some very specific questions. In fact, it would be a lot easier for us to get a whole one. We see that we have a vision of reforming public administration in front of us, and then, of course, you, for example, like this law, system laws mean only one thing, one part. Then some of the regional laws that will be regulators are more specifically, but they mean a piece of stone in the whole mosaic. That is why we have felt that such laws should be carried out on a regular basis, especially because the business definitions of our national council allow for a third to be dealt with - insofar as the second treatment is done in a qualitative manner - what can be dealt with quickly. Now, in particular, I might point out only a question that has not yet been heard today, which is a cultural issue. And it goes like this: Should funds in the field of culture be transformed into agencies? I am sure that the cases that have been exposed will be duly taken into account, or at least it will be explained why they could not be taken into account, so to conclude, I ask my colleagues and colleagues to support the Committee's proposed conclusions. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I have here a written application for Mrs Majde Zupan, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the position of the Nova Slovenije Group on this proposal, which we have on our hands. The government has submitted to us for consideration and adoption a system law to allow for the organisational transformation of the state administration. The ministries should, as has already been said, be excluded from those areas that perform developmental, analytical and professional tasks and are transformed into agencies for which it is desirable to operate outside the influence of daily policy and with a greater degree of autonomy. From a status perspective, legal entities would be legal entities and thus be organisationally and financially independent. However, the law is too far-fetched, as it also does not answer the question of what will happen to existing agencies and other persons of public law. We believe that all provisions relating to agencies should be re-examined in other laws, regardless of the area in which they perform their functions. It is necessary to review their legal status, their way of setting up, their bodies, their way and conditions of appointment and discharge, their financing and so on. The bill would have to be discussed, both professionally and politically, as it is one of the important laws necessary to implement public administration reform in the areas of para-national organisations. In addition, the proposal for a law is linked to the adoption of a new law on administration, which has not yet been introduced into the legislative procedure. The New Slovenia Group expects and wants the public administration to be more user-friendly in order to be more efficient, expedient and less bureaucratic. We believe that the Slovenians deserve a public administration that is close and helpful to people, not an urgent evil that we feel too often today. Therefore, we also want users to have a certain impact on the work of public administration. The proposal for a law is submitted for consideration, and it has been designed by a rapid procedure, because we need to adapt it to the legal order of the European Union. It is because of inconsistencies and because of the view that the proposal for a law should be dealt with together with the law on administration or at least with amendments and amendments to the law, then the New Slovenia Group will not support this proposal. However, if Parliament supports the matter, we expect in the legislative process that we will get answers and material on questions where we are not yet sure about the matter that it has matured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic is next on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, to express great doubts about the way we work. If you have also read a little more precisely the opinion of the State Council, whose role is what it is and because we have it, it is right that sometimes we respect their opinions, especially if we check them, I am actually surprised that this National Assembly has already received a proposal to go through such a law quickly. It's not good luck. I also wonder whether it is right that we have it at first reading if we get an opinion - and I wonder if anyone has examined this opinion of the Council of State - that the text of the law is contradictory. Secondly: that it is not possible to talk about any autonomy of a public agency because it is up to the founder or to give consent to decisions. Thirdly: because we have asked many to consider this law together with a proposal for a law on administration or at least with amendments or amendments to the law on administration. We have no agenda or amendment of the law on administration, no procedure is tabled - a new law on administration, the text of the law is contradictory. In short, we are witnessing some disagreement, we are deciding on something, we have no comparisons, and I reiterate: I agree that the way of life should be adapted to the European Union if the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia wish to become equal members of the European Union. It is only because we have to adapt some legislation to the point that this legislation is as bad as it is to be understood from the report of the Council of State as it is to be understood from the opinion of the committee responsible for internal policy, then I seriously imagine what we are doing and how we are doing. Our view is that Members and Members should require at least minimum harmonisation of the law, even though it is at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you. Anyone else want a word from the other members of Parliament? Mrs. Shirca, please. Liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	The Public Agencies Act, as annexed, is not contradictory. We don't think it's contradictory, but it's true that the trainees were definitely trapped in some -- I'll say -- demand or not two interests, but, of course, two starting points. First of all, it needs to be stressed that the solutions that will bring public agencies will be better, better forms of work organisation and the functioning of services, and we know that these solutions are necessary. But it is certainly true that it would be easier to enforce them if we already had a law on administration. We know that this law is, in effect, just before - it is already in the coordination stage and that it may even be caught - I will say - the treatment or even coincide with the consideration of the law on public agencies, which goes perfectly and correctly into the ordinary procedure. As has already been said, contradictions can be seen in this sense because of this capture in two demands: on the one hand, there was certainly an intention to get as open as possible, I can say even a single form of work to which certain areas of work of the current state administration would have been transferred. It is also true that this systemic solution is not only expected by the European Union, which we know that it generally loves or promotes a more independent and policy-oriented structure. But we know that we expect these solutions ourselves because we are all too caught in rigid, inflexible forms, such as public and other institutions, and ail funds do. In short, on the other hand, the proposaler also met with a desire for greater autonomy and, perhaps even legitimately, concerns arose, particularly those expressed by the State Council, that these autonomys were insufficient or that the influence of civil society, that I did not tell users in them [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Can you please apologize again - let yourself be calm if you can. You can't discuss it like that. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	It is a wide range of interests, as well as forms of agencies - those who have read the text or have dealt with it, you can see that it covers from regulatory, developmental, analytically professional, supervisory forms of action to those who would somehow take over the work that is being done by the state administration. However, since in most cases the supply of agencies from public funds, as well as from the combined systems - for example, a tax that will flow into the integrated budget principle - is certainly the supervision or competence of the government or, as we have heard now, a representative of the government, even a possible national assembly, if so decided, within the Agency, is understandable; surveillance is understandable. At the same time, it is also understandable that users might not have a greater role or influence than they do in the proposal, but that their desire, expressed in the national world, is understandable. In fact, as I say, because of this incomplete treatment of the state administration's functioning, there are certain differences that I do not refer to as disturbing, but I would like to stress them. We have, say, this meeting of the assembly is where we are considering a proposal for a law on telecommunications, which, I will say, will give birth to a telecommunications and broadcasting agency that will blend with the current telecommunications office. This agency will in some way, as proposed in the law that we will now consider - otherwise regulates the functioning of the agency as contained in the law on public agencies. As a result, the telecommunications agency will function as a lex specialis. These things are obviously going to happen in other cases of agencies. Let's say why I'm saying she's different. As an independent independent body, the telecommunications agency will have two professional bodies or two worlds, one for telecommunications, which will regulate in the technical sense of the service and the other for broadcasting, which will be designated by the national assembly, this broadcasting council, and will be a more advisory, supervisory body in terms of regulating the broadcasting area. I repeat, I do not refer to this as a disputed solution, but as a possibility of flexible paths, even though in this case, as I say, they will characterize it as a special law. And if any institution or fund - in the field of culture - is to be transformed into an agency, we have heard that such requirements are something or so - they will not only be satisfied with the solutions it brings and will be designed by public agencies, but also because the final surplus over income can be used or shared in the Agency for the additional work performance of employees or will be used to develop activities, which has now occurred in substantially more rigid and limited forms. Of course, I mention only one advantage. In short, if we take into account the instructions from the Committee on Internal Policy, the Secretariat and also those announced by the Government, which we have already heard today, we believe that this law is worth listening to in a positive sense. If not otherwise, it facilitates the preparation of an integrated law on administration and revises the current agencies, which are largely and very heterogeneously composed and also releases the work of some ministries - not just in terms of the anti-biocratic programme, as has been proposed several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Any other members of the group would like to present their views? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since we have not received written applications for the debate, I limit the individual Member to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My brief discussion will be about the system. I think it is important, when we talk about public agencies, to know all the public functions and public powers that should be regulated by legislation in this area. Slovenia has so far been a relative exception to - if you want - the central European system for regulating public functions, particularly German and French and slightly different from Anglo-Saxon, and if we do so, the Germans, French and others in central Europe have public functions, public powers, including public ownership, normally regulated by one general law. As is the law, say, trade or company law, there is usually a law on public functions or public institutions. In Slovenia, from the transition from the previous to the new system, this matter has remained inconclusive. We have received a law on government and on ministries, within this relatively vague definition of other institutional forms of organisations that did not have legal personality within this sector, but at the same time it is a completely abandoned area of so-called institutions and of course innovative solutions for other forms of organisation - legal personality, if I may say so. I think that this reform, which is currently at the point of the public agencies, in Slovenia is a kind of exit, which I think is not bad, but of course the second best is that the legal personality of public institutions, the public powers transferred from governments, are also properly legalised, are organised. Therefore, I believe that the introduction of the Public Funds Act has been the right direction, that the continuation of public agencies is appropriate and that this process should be completed by a relatively important intervention in the field of institutions. We now have a law on institutions, which was a transformational solution in 1989-1990 so that the SIS could be transformed into something that was closer to the new economic system in Slovenia. And since then, of course, the situation has remained unfinished at this point. As a result, there are many problems in the area of those public powers that we exercise in terms of the institution or the public institution. By the way, Europe does not know this concept. Usually these institutions do not have a legal personality in Europe. These are schools in such a case or in certain cases a hospital. I therefore believe that the legal regulation of the segment from the state administration, which has a systemically and directly enforceable function, to institutions such as funds which have, in particular, a function of public property management, is in a qualitative manner, under public control, through agencies which are primarily regulatory supervisory institutions entrusted with public authority, to institutions of some kind - the Germans have a term of office - that perform the functions that this country has to perform within the framework of public authority or within what it allows for public authority. That is why I think that, in addition to this law, we urgently need to complete this reform, not the law on institutions, but the law on public institutions. But we don't need institutions. Institutions now called institutions may be either companies or companies with limited liability or societies or foundations or something else. This is said; the legal space for their definition is open and allows them to be properly organised. That's why I think the effort put into this marriage is good. I do not agree with the position of the State Council, which I think is inadequate and unfounded. The role of civil society in this segment does not have this role in order for agencies to be independent of the public administration system. They must be independent in the procedure which the law gives them as an authorisation. It is said that the State has delegated certain functions to such a public person by virtue of legal power, and this public person must act independently and independently within the framework of these legal powers. With regard to funding, I agree, in principle, that the transfer of funds through the budget to these agencies does not limit their independence in operation, given how their financial plan is adopted. Why? Because it is also by international classification - in this area the agencies are part of the so-called wider country - the general gouverment to speak English. They usually do, however, if they are established at the level of the country, under the so-called central state - central government or with us, for example, in a narrower country. That is why I think that this link to the state budget or to the public treasury, as such, is appropriate. Given that there are already agencies that have been created in an unorganized way from this point of view, it is said by individual acts, I think that this law - and this will be the most difficult chapter of this law, these are the transitional provisions of the law, as in the Law on Public Funds, where the transitional provisions were the most difficult provisions because of interests and because of the prevailing situation - have also settled matters which are related to those agencies that already exist. For example, supervisory agencies such as securities market agencies, insurance agencies, if I only mention two. However, there are some others that are regulatory in nature, such as telecommunications and energy. In my opinion, they would be subject to the same principle. In general, they must follow regulation in the roof law, which is the law on public agencies, with regard to those basic clauses which have been processed in this law. The purpose of the operation, procedures and so on, and powers shall be governed by a sectoral, substantive law governing the subject matter which, of course, these agencies, as legally autonomous institutions, should also carry out. That's why I support the intent of lawmakers. I also hope that this law will be enforced as soon as possible. I do not see great problems with the law on administration alone, because the law on the administration of these solutions, which are on individual segments of the regulation of the legal status of the institution of public law, is ultimately the law on the administration of these solutions. But I would stop and deal mainly with that part of the public administration that we call it, I would say state administration; that is, I suppose, especially as regards ministries, institutions within ministries, and probably administrative units, or whatever this is called - what is transferred from these functions to a level that is inter-local and central. That is why, of course, I would support what the Secretary of State has said, and I also support the procedure as quickly as possible in the second and third stages of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] No more debaters. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. In fact, it is also the conclusion of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Law on Public Agencies, the first consideration, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law". Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There's 64 in attendance. For 38, for 8. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against was the vote of 8.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We have a debate and a vote on positions. As is known, we are moving on to a debate on the position prepared by the parent working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] No one wants to debate, so I am closing the debate and, of course, we are coming to a decision on the proposal for a position. We're voting, please. Attendance: 66 Members and Members. For 43, against 3 Members. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed position is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. I thank the representatives of the government for the previous item. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. First of all, it's the first hearing. Would a representative of the government like a word, please? Mr. Jenull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The government is proposing to adopt amendments to the Law on Lawyers, in order to bring legal legislation into line with the requirements of the European Union or the requirements of the Association Process. In the field of legal counsel, three directives of the European Union apply, namely the general recognition of diplomas obtained through vocational education and training, to facilitate the performance of a lawyer on a permanent basis in another Member State from where the qualification is obtained and to facilitate the successful exercise of the legal right to the free provision of services. In accordance with these Directives, by amending the law, we allow foreign lawyers who have acquired this right in the Member States of the European Union to carry out their legal activities in three ways from the date of Slovenia's full membership in the European Union: the provision of legal services with registration, with the same rights as lawyers in the Republic of Slovenia; the exercise of a legal profession based on the legal title obtained in the country of origin; and the provision of individual legal services. In addition, we propose some minor amendments and additions that complement the arrangements, so that the European will be comparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur for a report. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. There has been a serious discussion on some of the provisions proposed by the government as proposing amendments to this law, particularly in the part where lawyers coming from abroad and also notaries - some countries or better said countries where they allow it - have made it possible in some way to carry out legal work in Slovenia as well. On the basis of the discussion, the Committee then adopted the amendment with a narrow majority, but the amendment is designed and is before you. So, even here, if I say so, there has been a number of reflections on the procedure itself in the debate. In fact, when some important laws are being corrected and done quickly, something important can quickly be overlooked. This is, of course, intended for all the other amendments proposed by the Committee for adoption by the National Assembly. However, since there is something small, inconsequential at the end, we have also proposed that the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs be empowered to carry out this necessary work in the final edition and, of course, to bring the law into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Janez Podobnik, SLS, took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Since I also participated in the working body as a representative of the parliamentary group, allow me a brief intervention. The Chairman of the Committee took the content of the Committee's discussion well. The Committee's report is also very high-quality and very good in summarising some of the dilemmas that have opened up in the debate itself. Indeed: in the course of the debate alone, we have even wondered for a time whether there should be a reason for the law to be adopted on a regular basis. But according to the government and other professional institutions or associations and chambers, we then decided by a large majority, or I think that even unanimously, we decided on a quick procedure. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. As the Secretary of State has already said, when he reasoned on the reasons or objectives and principles of the law, he mentioned several reasons, namely to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the rules of the European Union and to ensure its readiness. Then also compliance with certain directives, as well as some minor interventions into the law itself, e.g. improving the quality of legal work. Here I would like to draw attention to this danger or duality, which appears to exist in some law under EU law - and when we align it with directives and so on - then we add something else, another issue we want to resolve. And that is the kind of detail that can sometimes hide an important solution. It is therefore very important, too, by the proposaler, that he always distinguishes in his explanation what is required of the directives or what is the area that we have called the alignment of our legal order with the EU, what is the solution of the legal matter and is linked to life in Slovenia. Understandably, everything we do in terms of directives is also good for us, but it is very important for Members when we adopt legislation. Our Group of Members has taken note of some of the provisions of the law. We also took note of the opinion of the secretariat, which warned that the questionable deletion of Article 3 could be. This determines the incompatibilities of the notary and the legal function. We have also tabled an amendment ourselves to draw this article, and unfortunately we have not received support for it. It is true, however, that, on the basis of our discussions, the Government then proposed an amendment that the application of this Article should not take effect until the date of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. We would also like to hear the government's position on the amendment tabled by respectable colleague Zupanov. Indeed, this is a very important amendment, and even on the basis of the government's position, he would then, if necessary, come forward again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. NSI's position, Mrs. Zupanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Respectable. Our New Slovenia Group has several opinions on the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the law on legal representation, and I would like to present them to you. The proposed law, as it is said, falls within the scope of the laws to be adopted in the process of taking over the acquis of the European Union. Our country has committed itself to harmonising the Law on Lawyers by the end of 2000, by laying down laws governing the fulfilment of the requirements of the European Directives, starting with the date of Slovenia's actual accession to the European Union. In addition to aligning with the European acquis, the proposer also wants to improve the quality of his legal work, thereby providing greater protection to consumers and, on the other hand, sanctioning the provision of legal services to persons who do not meet certain conditions. There are already two laws in Article 3 of the proposed novel: the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Notariat. The constitutional separation of the notariat public service from the legal profession applies to us. The law expressly states that it is incompatible with a notary to pursue a lawyer. The applicant proposes deleting the provision on the non-compatibility of a lawyer's profession with a notary profession. Such a provision could be an obstacle to the profession of lawyers from the Member States of the European Union, where the lawyer is incompatible with the notary. By deleting this provision, it is therefore possible to ensure that the law is non-discriminatory for all lawyers in European countries with regard to the possibility of legal profession in Slovenia. Foreign lawyers, who are notaries in their home country at the same time, will therefore not be able to provide notar services in Slovenia. In this regard, however, there is something else to be pointed out. In Slovenia we have a monopoly on notary law and competition in this area would be more than welcome for consumers. The State has granted the notariat a monopoly over certain simple tasks or simple images. And in this regard, we have tabled an amendment. In the work of notaries, several works are not the relationship between the work performed and the payment for that work, which is contrary to the fundamental principles of justice in society. For example, we probably meet him - we meet him many times. We have to pay the citizens a few thousand tolars for the simple certification given by the employee in the reception office. Only a job takes a few minutes and does not require special abilities. It only adds its signature. Then let's not talk about other services for which the consumer has to cut deeply into his pocket, which is a very heavy financial burden for low-income people. It is also interesting that notary services have been reduced twice in recent years, despite annual inflation of 8 - 9 percent. We are confident that tariffs should be further reduced, and at the same time we are wondering how the Minister of Justice could give his consent to such high tariff items. It is also interesting to note another point by the proposer of the proposal, namely that the Slovenian Bar Association, as a housing organisation, finds that in practice there is an increasing frequency of infringements of legal ethics and accounting of services contrary to the legal tariff, consumer legal security and also the professional reputation of lawyers. Again, consumers are the ones on whose shoulders the infringements occur, as services are usually over-accounted for in the interests of consumers and not lawyers. Not to talk then about ethics, but it is necessary to know and respect professional ethics in every profession. We must be aware that moral standards cannot only be learned. They need to be lived. The general problem in Slovenia is that most state and parastatal institutions are not exactly famous for their high legal culture. We are consumers in relation to these institutions at the very beginning in a subordinate position. In many cases, citizens are legally ignorant about their rights and procedures, so we need independent and, above all, highly qualified lawyers. Today it is so complex that it is impossible to expect an average citizen to take part in legal proceedings without professional assistance. The question therefore arises whether in Slovenia is actually taken care of to provide professional legal assistance in an appropriate manner. It is precisely for this reason that the proposed introduction of a mandatory examination of legal ethics and legal tariffs for all new applicants is a matter of law. It is interesting, however, that it is for lawyers to learn the moral code, judges, prosecutors and notaries to be satisfied with the state's legal exam. It would be appropriate for the Bar to consistently implement sanctions for possible infringements and further organise education for its members, including with regard to knowledge of its code and tariff. In addition, the proposal at the appropriate address to pay more attention to legal ethics and legal tariffs in the training of judicial trainees would not be too much. We're in our client's office to strengthen ethics, not just lawyers. And if the bar representing the interests of its members believes that, without the introduction of a mandatory test of knowledge from legal ethics and legal tariff, we cannot expect an improvement in this area, then we support such a proposal. However, the introduction of such examinations should not be an additional obstacle for young lawyers. Here I mean, the price should also be appropriate and accessible. In Slovenia, for six years, the law on state legal examination has been in force, which is some kind of universal legal examination. It requires lawyers to show knowledge from all legal areas. Also in the field of lawyering and a successful state legal examination, it is sufficient to carry out legal, notary, judicial, prosecutorial and other services. We believe that it is the bar that should also ensure that as many lawyers as possible enter the bar, because this is the only guarantee that the quality of legal services will be improved in the long term. So the only cure is competition. Therefore, we are not afraid of the arrival of foreign lawyers in Slovenia. If they offer better services, they'll just pick up better clients. The arrival of foreign lawyers will certainly have more positive than negative consequences. We expect that this will also be an incentive for domestic lawyers to improve their services, to make more effort for their customers and to compete with the solicitors with sound names, otherwise they will have to settle for only minor matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups? Please, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the LDS Group of Members. By signing the European Association Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to ensure the gradual compatibility of its legislation with the legal order of the European Union. The legal regime governing the field of lawyers is not yet in line with this legal order, and therefore the basic purpose of the proposed amendment is to bring the law on legal representation into line with the directives applicable within the European Union in the field of defence. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in this part, we fully support the proposal for a law and we believe that the amendment of the law fully summarises those directives. The new law in a recognizable and non-discriminatory manner, for the first time, allows lawyers from the Member States of the European Union to carry out legal activities in the Republic of Slovenia after the entry of Slovenia into the European Union and also lays down the conditions under which foreign lawyers can carry out this activity. In this part, the parliamentary group will fully support the law. With regard to the amendments tabled, our Group will support those amendments which have received an appropriate majority on the home committee, and I must point out that the position of individual members is not uniform with regard to the proposed amendment to delete Article 5, which will be decided on the basis of arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Are there no more reports of parliamentary groups? [[It's not.]] Thank you. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Jozef Bernik applied for the discussion in writing. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members! I am opening the way in which some of the changes in this law are looking, but I would like to make some general comments on this subject. Lawyers are an extremely important function in a functioning democracy, even though Shakespeare put in some drama "let's kill all the lawyers" in the mouth of the kings. Certainly, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen of my colleagues, and my fellow lawyers, I'm going to make some criticisms here. Law practice in some countries of Europe is, in fact, a very well-functioning cartel, and I think that is also the case with us. It sets tariffs, in fact, prices so to speak, rules of the game, control over the functioning of lawyers and so on. It's kind of self-control that the bar uses. However, this control of self-control has proved to be insufficient elsewhere in the world; we know that the system of tariffs or the prices of legal services is to some extent a welcome fiction and many services have been strictly overrun by these tariffs. And here we immediately ask the question of ethical standards that should apply in practice to all lawyers. Indeed, the law speaks of this, but there is no record of violations of these ethical standards - they are not sanctioned. As I understand it, the subject on ethical standards is not included in our law study. This is quite contrary to the practice of developed countries, for this ethical code or this teaching and the interpretation of various violations are essential for this area as well. Because the older lawyers had no such education, nor did the younger ones, although I hear that the question of business ethics is also being introduced into the judicial exam. For all of us, for all lawyers or not lawyers, lawyers should have a mandatory ethical course every year, because this is a dynamic that is increasing and lawyers who have already been in practice for several years should have such an education. Indeed, it is understandable that as much competition as possible in this area, there will be more conflicts, and more complaints will be made by customers or customers. The question is how to address this area. Like I said, self-control isn't enough. However, I would recommend that we also start thinking about setting up a commission in the future that will have members of the government, lawyers, lawyers and citizens. It is only in this way that the relationship in various premature conflicts can really come to the day and then the proper treatment, because we know - the old Slovenian proverb says: The crow does not rule out the eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. There were no other written submissions to the debate. I limit the debate of other Members and Members who have not applied in writing to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we were doing reform of the Slovenian judiciary, this was done quickly, as we do in this country all and I think it would take a serious analysis of what is all that needs to be changed, to prepare appropriate corrections to the various laws. Therefore, I agree with my forerunner in practically all the things he has mentioned. I may not agree in the implementation work, so how would I approach it. Why? In fact, the law of lawyers isn't the law out there in the clouds, but it's up to some other law. Therefore, even if we follow, for example, the proposal at the meeting to correct in this law the fact that lawyers will also provide these notary services has not been rectified in the Notariat Act. I also agree with the criticisms that have gone my way already across the border of the permitted debate in this room under the law on legal representation regarding the regulation of the notariat itself. Let me remind those who were then in this room, otherwise designed, that Dr. Pučnik asked, in fact, the only one of us, the minister who introduced this law on notariat, whether we are not doing a special caste of extremely rich people in this country. The crocodiles almost cried, that this was not true, and that they were protective mechanisms that would prevent this from happening. As we now see, the protective mechanisms are too weak. I also disagree with what has been said in the debate that greater quality of lawyers will also be of greater quality. For example, if we take the case of Germany. In Germany, there are only 24 lawyers, according to the statement of our President of the Supreme Court, who have a special license to appeal to the highest court. In short, obtaining a special license among lawyers also means a test of knowledge, one proof that someone in some area is successful and so on. I'm sorry, in fact, that we're deleting that article on the basis of an amendment, that they have to test legal ethics. I'll tell you why. Because there's a difference between judges and lawyers. Lawyers actually do a good job if they don't solve any of the disputes. I think you know that joke when your dad handed over his son's business and when he visited him after a month, his son brags that both of his oldest cases have already been solved. He said, father fool, these two cases trained you, and they also helped you to make a comfortable living. Well, that's why I think it's a different approach. This is, therefore, for a comprehensive analysis, the preparation of individual laws, and so, for example, we will probably also be correcting the law on judicial service. Judges have their own code, judges also have procedural provisions where they are specifically bound, how and what to do. It's not possible, so according to the rule, "a deaf assembly of roofs," but that they're all the same. Therefore, I propose that we limit ourselves here to this part in particular, and I also appeal to colleagues and colleagues not to interfere so madly with this law that - I have used the wrong expression - so savagely in this law that we support Mrs Majda Zupanov's amendment. Our debate will be welcomed by the proposer, namely the Government, especially the Secretary of State of Jenul. In fact, we have also considered, on the committee, that once it would be necessary to deal with all these problems, which are in a court of law, which are not just solved through the thumb, we will have a discussion, but properly supported by some analysis, otherwise it will be a chat again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First, I would support the thinking of my colleague Lavrinz and Dr Bernik, in particular on this issue, that a serious analysis of the situation in the judiciary and the judiciary is needed and that the government first, and then when the legislators make a move that will be well thought out. We'll most likely come after a regular procedure for such solutions. But I would like to say that because it was expressed here, the word for notariat. I don't want to be an arbitrator with respect to notar relations: an attorney or a lawyer. I want to make a fair and right decision. I listened very carefully to my colleague Zupanov. But as a matter of fact, I'd like to make the right decision. I'm not rooting for anyone, but the explanation of the amendment says - this is an amendment, which must be clearly stated, by which we change the concept. The concept is clear: the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its article, stipulates that the judiciary as part of the judiciary is an independent and independent service governed by law [[That's what we got.]] ; notariat is a public service governed by law [[That's what we got.]] . Both areas are regulated by the laws of the country or by the system of law, which lays down, inter alia, the conditions for the exercise of a lawyer or a notary. As the Law on Lawyering provides that it is incompatible with the performance of a lawyer’s profession, so does the law on notariat in Article 9 - but today this law is not on the agenda because it cannot be - that it is incompatible with a notary to pursue a lawyer. The fact is, with this law, we close the incompatibilities. Why? If we have fully understood the Secretary of State and the law, for the sake of the European Union, to say the wrong thing, because of the guidelines. Well, if that's the case, so be it. Mrs Zupanova suggests that lawyers perform part of the notary's tasks. I believe that this changes the basic concept. And, of course, this amendment also says: "In Slovenia we have a model of notariat, which results in a real monopoly." In Slovenia we have a model of notariat set by law, and in the law we have decided on the so-called Latin type, for a notariat of the Latin type, this is also a very dominant model in the European Union. The Notariat and the Bar have developed into two independent and mutually independent services as a result of the division of labour in the area of legal services. Next in this amendment, it also states that the result of this monopoly is a high price for notary services. Here I make a mistake and say that the question of the prices of notary services can be a question, and here it is necessary for the department to assess and make a wise decision. This is where I stay critical or open. However, I cannot agree with the following sentence that "in most cases, the high prices of notary services are not in proportion to the work done". This is a very serious criticism of notary work. Here I would like specific cases or whether this is true. If that's true, then something has to be done. I have some acquaintances or contacts with people, and I can say that notaries are very respected people, because notaries have become respected judges, and always only man and person to seal some functions and activities. And if anything is good in Slovenia, then it is that they have been given the opportunity to become notary lawyers, mostly judges who were previously respected personalities where they live. And he would not have agreed to a poor assessment of the functioning of notaries in any way; if it were a concrete case, he would not have accepted flat-rate assessments out of correctness to this institution. However, I expect the Secretary of State to come forward, as the debate on the working body made it clear that the proposal to delete incompatibility does not change the concept. If this does not change the concept, then it is understandable that the government cannot support the content of the amendment as proposed by Mrs Zupanov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Who wants a word? Please. Mrs Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government. In fact, I would have responded to this law myself in the sense that some have warned me about it, either by electors or by people who have used either notary or legal services. And in this respect, of course, I would also like to support the proposal made by the Government that this test of tariff, ethics and knowledge should nevertheless be carried out. For the government itself has written down in its proposal accompanying this law in the parliamentary debate, that the Chamber of Lawyers also finds that there are increasing violations that are supposed to arise from ignorance of the rules. From the point of view of those who use the services of lawyers, it is, of course, unacceptable that those who provide a service do not have the rules associated with this service. And, of course, on scabs, otherwise you can write consumers, you can write consumers, I would say users of these services - lawyers. So that, of course, what is proposed at this point in terms of the parent working body, this is the deletion of this, personally I cannot support, even because it has very much warned people that these services are expensive. Now, I will not let myself go into how much and how expensive they are, but I would say that in this bill, which states that it is fully in line with European law, I may be missing a provision in terms of "pro bono" so that lawyers can impose or allow certain services to be done free of charge, free of charge. When I found out whether that was possible or not, of course, it was possible under the code. However, it is not in the law of this provision, which I would have thought would be at least further - I agree with my colleague Lavrinsk - that the system of justice and the whole area requires a broader treatment, some in-depth treatment, so I have not proposed an amendment in this regard. But it seems to me that we should continue to keep an eye on this in the law. But I do have a question for the government representative. The government has written down a very important warning, and I am interested in how it will then rescue it. She wrote that in the wake of the latest amendment to criminal law in 1994, a criminal offence of curiosity was released from criminal law. Under the Law on Lawyers, no black practice or legal profession is sanctioned in contravention of the law. It's not. If I have been able to read this proposal correctly, there is no such thing in this proposal. And so - to read the next sentence written by the government - "...that is why it would be appropriate, in particular at a time when competition and the provision of services also by foreign lawyers in Slovenia would increase, it would be appropriate to sanction certain conducts and offences". Yeah, I agree, but I don't agree with that tone. So when foreign lawyers arrive, they will have to be punished, now they do not have to be sanctioned, these provisions are not, if I understand correctly, and at the same time I ask the government representative what will be done in the field of criminal law in relation to this cumbersome writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	In one part, I would like to replicate to my colleague Simšič, in the part where the amendment was also touched, whose first signed proposal I am alone with my colleague and my colleague and relates to the legal tariff test. The legal rate does not set the law, but is determined by the bar itself. I agree with a lot of things, which have been said here, that the subject of the debate can be the level of legal fees, especially if we take into account that part of the population that can't even afford legal services. However, by testing the legal tariff knowledge that can change, we cannot, of course, address this problem. In particular, if the law proposes that those who are supposed to cause problems, when they find that there are many violations in this area, and in the same breath we write in the law - of course taking into account the rights acquired and so on - so that those who are violating this today do not carry out this test, it seems to me to be somewhat controversial if not ridiculous. In fact, we are introducing a condition, a new condition for obtaining a legal profession in a certain sphere from employees or professions in the judiciary. And in this part, I don't think that's going to solve this problem. Last but not least, the Law on Lawyers and the Bar and the Statutes of the Bar sets out clearly which are the worst violations when it comes to the abuse of this legal tariff if I am limited; I am not talking about ethics. And a worse breach of the lawyer's employment obligation is when he charges or charges a party a higher legal rate than that laid down in the tariff work if he fails to agree in advance with the client. This means that we will solve this problem only by increasing the supervision of those who violate it. However, I do not imagine anyone who is in the judiciary or who meets with the law for maybe 15 years, but then decides to go to law practice, and we will send him as a schoolgirl to the bar for a test of the knowledge of the legal tariff that can be changed, in accordance with the decision of the bodies of the bar, every year. Tell me who has a special test in this country to learn what has to be charged under a certain rule! However, if I turn to administrative officials, public servants who have to respect the administrative tax law, let me turn around - not least, we can go so far as to introduce a special test for traders, such as the price list in their shop. I think that's funny. And in defense of all those who are now in law schools who will want to pursue a law profession, it seems to me that this is an additional condition. Neither judges nor notaries, as mentioned above, have special tests of knowledge of their ethics and of their tariffs. And each sphere of this profession has its own tariffs. So I also agree with what Mr Podobnik said. In this part, we are talking about harmonising the law with the directives and something has fallen. But it fell next to the proposal of the bar. I wanted to explain my amendment to the second reading, and I've taken this opportunity now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I would only ask Members and Members to discuss this in the amendments. This is, at present, a general debate and I ask you to make another statement in the context of the general debate. Yes, Mr. Lavrinc, then Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I'd rather, I don't know, not a replica, but a supplement. In a way, you're both right. So, I think, too, as Mrs Simšičov thinks, after that old Slovenian proverb: "Better sparrow in hand than pigeon in the roof. What's this all about? For because, in my opinion, it is a genuine sin for us to have better lawyers, even better - well, it is a better expression - it is that, for example, this legal exam for all is the same, regardless of whether it will then be a notary, whether it will be a judge or a lawyer. And I'm sure it should be made up of two parts. One is the general one where, in fact, everyone learns everything, and this is the other part, for example, one that should be directed in the way that Mr Bernick suggested that this should be done at the time of the study. Let me say one more thing, with us, at least when I was studying, we didn't even have language, but one of the important skills to say that is -- at least for those who perform public speaking and these are indisputably lawyers on the one hand, and on the other hand, prosecutors. That is why, in my opinion, this gesture by the Bar Association to try to maintain some degree of knowledge within its borders, including by preventing or remedying in some way this weakness of ours, for example when someone from a completely different sphere comes there, this legal exam has been given to him, as a condition, to enter their society, to set this knowledge of legal rules, ethics and tariffs, because the tariff is only one part in this indent that the Government has proposed. But it is not - but I agree that we will not solve all the problems, not with this, but with the other amendments. But as for the amendments themselves, I calculated somehow that it doesn't matter, whether we solve these trilemes in this general discussion or then we put the amendments back on hold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Well, I expect then not to repeat the debate there, but there is now a general debate under the rules of procedure. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I will also take a little part in this debate, which has been put forward so far. I'm not a specialist in this field, but I've got a lot of people working on it in the family, so things are clear to me. It seems to me that in this law on changes and additions to the law on lawyering, there was no need to maintain that distinction, that a lawyer should do legal work, and that he should be doing notary business on the inside, because I can't imagine a man wearing half an hour's clothing, and then he'd turn around, give himself a lawyer's gown, and once he'd represent public interest, and another time he'd represent the client's interest. These interests are being fought here, as one would say - on the matter of the person concerned who solves these problems, as well as the client who hires such a person, perhaps for two people, that I am not even talking about any unfair competition here. On the other hand, I'd kind of like to compare my lawyer to a doctor. In fact, the lawyer is a lawyer who helps his client to get some results or sees a solution to the problem when he is looking for a legal way to solve his problems. And it seems more than obvious to me that it was a long time ago, because when colleague Anderlič led the KVIAZ, it was because of market interests that a lot of lawyers filled the legal types. Some then also failed there and went back to their original jobs and it is questionable if a person who has long been engaged in an activity then goes straight to the next activity, and if only those people who control this space – surely one of these bodies is also a lawyer’s chamber – they point out that there are problems. And I can also say from the cases that I myself, as the President of the Council of a public institution, have been such that, when charged by lawyers in the representation of workers in various disputes, these things were also such that the bar ruled, when we then put them into consideration, that they were not charged in accordance with the legal tariff. That is why I would say that knowledge is almost no harm to anyone and if those who control a particular area are proposing some additional education for people, so that I, of course, will, when this is here, also support and will not support what some others have suggested that all this additional education should be abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to ask or point out a dilemma. In fact, Article 4 of the proposed diction of the second paragraph of Article 23 provides for the prohibition of the opening of a branch of the law firm in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also so far so that legal offices cannot - as I am informed - have branches in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this is not the case in the countries of the European Union. Legal offices may have branches, multiple branches. And now, with this regulation in the Republic of Slovenia, we are essentially closing down lawyers from the countries of the European Union, including the establishment of branches, several branches. However, this is in a way likely to be discriminatory, as ours will currently be able to open branches in other countries of the European Union. And given the morning debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, where we have opened a debate on the requirements of the European Union, on the necessity of amending the Constitution and preserving the conditions of reciprocity in the area of free movement of capital; but I wonder here whether even this, a law firm like, say, an economic company or not, falls not even in this case, but whether or not it will come with entry into the European Union to demand that this be eliminated. How is this in line with the requirements of the European Union? And I want to hear why this is necessary, what the argument is that it is. In fact, I am also surprised at why it is not possible for us to have large law firms open offices in different places because this would bring our services closer to our clients. And if this is the case, if I correctly explain how Slovenia will enter full membership, or sooner, or whether we will not change the law immediately after the establishment, in the process of negotiations with the European Union, there will be inconsistencies with the acquis of the European Union and that we will have to change this dictatorship and this will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members? [[No one else.]] Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to answer a few questions? Mr. Beumann. Can I just draw attention to Rule 183 of the Rules of Procedure - in the general debate we are talking about the principles and objectives of the legislative proposal. If it is in this context, please, in the context of the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	So now I'm risking breaking the rules of procedure after this explanation. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State about the sense of imposing a fine for advertising the activities of lawyers, because I am really interested in where the cause is actually a drastic punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members? We can thus hold a general debate and it could be very good for the Secretary of State to answer some of the questions raised in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. In this part of the general debate, I would like to try to answer questions relating to the context of the amendments and to supplement the law on legal representation in the whole of the issue raised in the debate. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Podobnik on his question that the purpose of the government is not to change in any way the current concept of the legal system and the notary; nor can it, under constitutional provisions separating both services, be one public service, and the other is a self-employed profession within the framework of justice. As part of the relationship between the lawyer and the notary and within both professions, a number of issues have been raised, including "for bona" representation, conditions for entering the profession, access to individual courts, permanent education, disciplinary responsibility, notary and legal tariffs and access of young lawyers to all judicial professions. None of these questions were intended by the proposer to resolve this bill because it is based solely on a request for harmonisation with the European Union. All these issues, however, the proposaler is aware of and will be subject to legislative changes that are being prepared. With regard to the two issues, I would only like to say in general. With regard to tariffs, the Ministry’s powers are limited because the legal regime is such that the tariff is proposed by a notary or a lawyer’s chamber, the Ministry gives only its consent. A reduction cannot be achieved if the reduction is not proposed by both professions. With regard to disciplinary responsibility, which has been pointed out, I would say that it is regulated, namely that the law refers to the statute and such a solution has not been constitutionally disputed. With regard to free entry into the profession, as Mr Vukko pointed out, this problem is a problem, but even more so than when entering the legal profession, it is open to entry into all legal professions because of the limitations on the possibility of obtaining trainee status. The Government is also aware of this issue and will be subject to examination and any amendment to the provisions on State legal examination and on traineeship. With regard to the specific issue in this work - on the question of Mrs Simšič's Ambassador. The illegal writing was decriminalized along with some other crimes, which were then not determined to be offences and there is a legal void. There was an introductory law on the law on criminal proceedings, which was not adopted, and this issue is not settled. One part of the legal profession is regulated by this law, in new provisions which prescribe fines for offences in this area, is what is called legal writing. This relates to the question of Commissioner Beumann for inadmissible advertising; the reason is that the law prohibits the advertising of legal activity and the applicant considers that the breach of this rule may be linked to the disclosure of personal data by presenting cases in which a lawyer would like to prove to be good, quality and obtain customers so badly that it is necessary to sanction them in the manner proposed. With regard to the opening of branches, as Mr Jerovšek has pointed out, I must say that the reason for the current prohibition in the concept of Slovenian law, which is historically such that a lawyer is actually carried out on a permanent basis and as a personal service: a personal lawyer to a particular client. We did not have the same kind of lawyering as we did outside America, where it is a major law firm that is generally impersonal and employs hundreds or even thousands of partners, associate members and lawyers. The concept of the Chamber was always - and the proposer listened to it - that such a development of the bar would be allowed even in the future, but we must allow what the directives require. Therefore, according to the concept of this law, the practice of foreign lawyers is not considered to be a branch but is considered to be a permanent and permanent profession here. The Bar Association has been asked by the Committee at Mr Lavrinc - explicitly how it is with branches abroad, and the representative said they are not interested in opening such branches. Otherwise, since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, all these changes, almost all changes, will come into force. That's what I'd say. The European Union Directive prohibits the establishment of branches in the home country, i.e. Article 11 of the Directive, No. 78, so there is no problem that the legal provisions on accession to the European Union should therefore be amended again. And the rest may be the case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you. If you don't mind, I didn't want to interrupt you earlier. In this National Assembly, it is customary for government representatives to stand by when speaking to Members. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate and move on to - second reading, to debate and to decide on the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We can vote on this. Please! There are 68 Members and Members present. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the amendment review, which I am drawing attention here to two works. One of the materials that we have received today is the introduction of amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on lawyering, rapid procedure, groups of Members or Members. Mrs. Majda Shirca is written there in round if you look. This is where we will talk mainly about the new article. This is a debate that we had with lawyers and lawyers yesterday, which is said to be a follow-up to both conclusions. Then I would also like to draw your attention to the material - the review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on lawyering, date 20.3.2001. Then we'll continue with that. First, I'm putting an amendment to the debate for the new A1. Article 1 The candidates were previously appointed. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since there is no debate, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. Let's vote, please. There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 5. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 2. Amendment to Article 2, proposed by Ms Majde Zupan from New Slovenia. Who wants to discuss this article? We've done something. Please, Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. As I mentioned earlier, I would like to present this amendment. The amendment was written from practice. In the parliamentary offices, we are facing these problems and I think it is right that if we do not support it today, we should think about it in the future. Let me read it. Explanation. In Slovenia we have a model of notariat, which results in a real monopoly. The result is the high prices of notary services, which in most cases are not in proportion to the work done, the relatively poor coverage of the territory with service providers and the stagnating quality of services. The price of most notary services inhibits legal traffic and often threatens the legal and social security of the socially weak inhabitants of Slovenia. The proposed amendment will significantly increase the number of service providers currently held exclusively for notaries. It should also be taken into account that there are many municipalities in Slovenia that do not have a notary in their area. Therefore, the adoption of the amendment would bring the people of less developed areas closer to most of the services now being provided in larger cities. At the same time, competition by lawyers will force notaries to take permanent care of raising the quality of their services. It is clear, however, that this is the matter of the matter of the Notariat Act and then we refer to the amendments below. Well, let's get to it. Explanation. In Article 2, at the end of the first paragraph, the following text shall be added before the dot: 'and it shall consist of public documents on legal affairs, declarations of will or on facts from which rights are derived under conditions and to the extent laid down for a lawyer in the Notariat Act'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for the floor. I have already passed in the general debate that this is too wild an intervention in this law. I think it looks about like someone who's got a toothache going to orthopedic. In fact, if we have to go to the Notariat Act, then let's go to the Notariat Act. However, we cannot agree with those desires that we will write in the Law on Lawyers that they too can work and thus break the complex concept of the regulation so far. I'm going to say so uncontrolledly, unpreparedly, but these things really don't work. And it surprises me, because from the debate, including a member of New Slovenia, Dr. Bernik, I understood that it is a valid thought, and only then for some activity. In this case, I will say: without any analysis, without any serious consideration to break down the system that we actually have, that is, in my opinion, not serious. Well, and I kindly ask everyone who doesn't give my word, but you give something to the Secretary of State, who has also clarified these matters precisely that you don't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I myself agree with Mr Lavrinc's objection to this amendment, but I would add. In fact: look; for the first time, the concept would be broken. Secondly, we will not eliminate the monopoly in this way, nor will we lower notar services. And look, the thing is, I think the problem is next. It is probably also necessary to determine how tariffs should be developed first. I think that these tariffs are general, whether in the field of lawyering or not. And they're too wide. And in this marriage, we certainly can't solve it. And I think it is also necessary to approach the creation of a new Notary Tariff Act in some way. I do not know exactly how this is regulated in the field of lawyering, but it is indeed a serious problem, which Mrs Simšič has previously pointed out in the debate. But I think the problem is that there is no control over the determination: either notary or lawyer tariffs. In fact, there is a clear range of whether it is a simple process or whether it is a significantly more complex and complex procedure for carrying out a particular task. And I think that's the problem. In this case, however, if we accept this amendment in some way, we will break the concept on one side of the independence of the lawyer, on the other side of the notariat. In addition, we will not eliminate the monopoly or lower tariff prices absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beatenchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to inform the assembly that it is currently discussing an amendment which is technically not properly tabled. For he wants to amend Article 2 of the basic law. But we have to deal with changes and additions. And then this is essentially an amendment to the 1st article you have under consideration because Article 1 amends Article 2 of the basic law. There's only so much to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Who else wants a word? Any other Members and Members? No, no, no. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only like to confirm what the Member has just said about the notary tariff. However, I must inform the National Assembly that, to the extent that it is not yet known from the means of public information, the Notary Chamber has proposed a tariff reduction and that discussions have taken place with the Ministry of Justice and that it is agreed, in principle, that the Chamber at its assembly will confirm this tariff reduction at the end of this month and then the Ministry will give its consent to this reduction. So this problem is partially solved as far as the current tariff is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Mr Secretary of State, from your mouth to God's ears, but it won't be like that - in my opinion. Why? Because there is a difference between notaries in the center, for example with notaries in Ljubljana. I remember that we made these excesses, so to speak, an extraordinary amount of money when one notary earned more than three presidents in this country, together net, what was left of it after he paid his income. So, in a month, it's an absurd thing to do. If now, if we are going to do or if they are going to do something to solve this problem in a linear way, it's kind of incorrect. The market for such services is in Ljubljana for example 90 and in all other parts of Slovenia 10. It is not possible to compare the notary from, I do not know whether they have it in Cerknica or not, but, for example, from Cerknica and from Ljubljana. That is why I think that this discussion will for the first time have to be based again on some revenue analysis, because, after all, all taxpayers, are one serious thorough reflection and also some ranking of areas. This is one weight, what it means to be notary in Ljubljana and what it means to be notary, for example, even in Kamnik, where purchasing power is weak and so on. I don't think it's such a small problem that it could be solved from today to tomorrow. However, I am sure that the Secretary of State will make every effort to convey our thoughts and initiatives to the Notary Chamber when it decides on these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you. I'm warning you again. Notary tariff is not the subject of discussion. It is only indirect and I ask that we do not continue the debate in this direction. We are discussing the amendment and the article tabled by Mrs Zupanov, and please, if we can remain in this context. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Well, I didn't mean to come by, but I think the situation has come this far by itself. Indeed, what we have just heard in the end, and I am grateful for this thinking, which is true, and we all know that it does not matter in Ljubljana or in the countryside, but in this context this amendment solves this particular problem. I'm not getting into this. I didn't say anything or support this amendment or not. However, just as we have come to the debate now, this is, in fact, the case that we have just heard is being resolved by this amendment. If someone doesn't like it or doesn't like it, that's the other thing. I don't go into how anyone will define it either. I'm not going to tell myself how I'm going to define myself either, but I'm going to say that this debate has called for a solution in this amendment. That's a fact, and we can't get past it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I would like to support myself that this amendment is exactly what it is. Mr Lavrinc said somehow that there must be a high rate of these services so that those who work in Cerknica can survive and earn. At the same time, the one who is in Ljubljana, where the fallout is huge, deserves so much and so much more. He mentioned three times as much as the President of the State. With this amendment, it would therefore be for these matters to be resolved that, where the case for notary is not so large, a lawyer could carry out these matters, but that notary would not be necessary and that would certainly reduce the tariff system as a result of this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs Simšičeva, then sir, then Mr Lavrinc. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I would also like to join those who say that, in the Law on Lawyers, Amendments and Supplements, we cannot solve the things laid down in the Notariat Act. And I actually understand the proposal and the contribution and also the debate of Mrs Majda Zupanova, who herself, if you have listened carefully, said in the debate, even if this is not accepted, because I think she herself knows very well that this does not somehow belong to this law, but that this should be a thorough journey to the ministry further, as will be the case for further changes. And I admit that I understand her debate as much as I do. And at the same time, of course, I say that no matter what I've been discussing, it's all there is to it. But I don't think we can solve a kindergarten law or a high school law. Maybe it's not exactly the right comparison, but we're here somewhere because things are, like, connected in justice or in education and education. Such a solution is, of course, difficult to support, especially in terms of the Secretariat's warning that the article is not even correctly located; therefore, it should either change the forecast sentence or probably not put such an article to the vote at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	So, I don't think this is how this problem can be solved and it's about mixing jurisdiction. In my opinion, the only correct solution would be that in the area of Ljubljana, where these notaries' earnings were truly enormous due to a large number of cases, they were systematised or registered and set up several notary cities. There's no mixing, I'll say, apples and pears, but that's the only way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you. I'm not asking for tariffs if I can. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I'd like to replicate Mrs. Simsichev. The purpose of this supplement was to correct perfectly and the very statement of Zupanov that it would probably not be accepted does not go in this direction that the proposal itself is not right. But given that we have such a voting machine that everything that comes from this side is not to be supported because it is already in principle on the wrong side. That's how much I'd add to it. With regard to these price comments. I also have to touch the notariat's prices. Of course, it just shows that notariat is not well placed. In particular, given the way candidates flock for notariat, we have seen this in the past if tariffs were flattened, there would not be such a rush.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We're back on tariff. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Now I've got to go. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues. The path to hell is pressed with good intentions, says an old proverb, so I would appeal to you once more. And to you, Madam Applicant, this amendment. Form it in the form of a decision, and let it be proposed to the government - so we suggest to the government, of course, after we adopt the law without this amendment, that a proposal be prepared for amendments to the Notariat Act. I really don't belong in there! And that's what you have to say again, because, I'll say, the thing is stuck together in some kind of force, in some sort of nipple. I suggest you form a decision and we support it. It's not this side or her side.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you. Anyone else? I don't see Mr. Anderlich anymore. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Procedurally. Before deciding on this amendment, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I request an hour's rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	Excuse me, did I hear you correctly for an hour?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	One hour, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	Yes, then the rest is at 1 p.m., it is said that this morning's part of the meeting is over and we continue at 2.30 p.m. First, we'll continue with this point and then it's time for the Veteran Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u80	Once again, I ask Members of Parliament and Members to place their cards, because we will determine the conclusion! We continue the adjourned session and determine the presence! 67 present. The National Assembly is concluded and can continue its work. Please, procedurally, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I am making a procedural proposal with regard to our intention to enter the European Union and I believe that, given that we have negotiating points ahead of us in relation to the movement of capital at some stage, when all this effort should be well coordinated, that the results will be appropriate, but I have the impression that, in view of the foreign policy committee debated, we have not yet reached these conditions so that our negotiating team for the upcoming meetings, if I say so, is equipped with appropriate decisions with partners in Brussels. I believe that we are at the most demanding stage of our approach and that we must not make mistakes on this path. Since I do not see sufficient attention to this issue and the great difference between the parliamentary groups, I propose that we conclude today's work early or take a break to discuss this issue with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, who do not yet have an epilogue on the Foreign Policy Committee for once. But it is very important what this epilogue will be, which will then be represented by our negotiating group in Brussels. I propose that all Members learn well about this matter, because I see from the outside that the behavior about what is now relatively weak, and that we do not then open the debate later when something is past, I suggest that we take this time today, because as usual it is still in a hurry. I'm not gonna say why, but he's in a hurry again. I suggest we take an hour off on this issue to prepare thoroughly for things to be done as they should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	As I understand it, the proposal is to conclude the meeting an hour earlier and to meet or discuss the problem referred to immediately after the assembly of the parliamentary group. Is that a suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	Some parliamentary groups have already dealt with this and do not need time for this purpose, but I think that the leaders of the parliamentary groups need time to arrange or harmonise these matters in the spirit of working together. It is also possible for Members to get to know this matter accurately, through the key people who are leading the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	Do I understand correctly that you are suggesting that this meeting be concluded an hour earlier?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	So, 5:00. I'm putting the motion to a vote. So, the proposal is that the meeting of the assembly be concluded at 5 p.m. Twenty-eight, twenty-six. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	Procedurally. I'm sorry, President. I would ask if we could repeat the vote, given that the key did not "hold" me when I voted against it, and you can see in the statement that I was registered, but I did not vote. I am therefore procedurally asking for a re-voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Good thing we're not going to complicate this, we're going to repeat the vote. First, I am putting to the vote a motion to repeat the vote. Who's in? 54 for, 6 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it we're going to repeat the vote. We're voting. 75 present, 31 to 35. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. One more procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Look, if we go like this, I find that I'm wrong about the vote, and I ask you to repeat the vote, and then we can work until tonight.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	If we're going to complicate this, we're just going to vote again. Are you asking us to do this again? [[No, no, ……]] So it was just a comment. Thank you very much. We have to decide how to proceed. This is because it was announced this morning that we will be considering the veterinary law, but it is not yet complete, and it is also not the finished item that we have had in consideration, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on legal representation. In my opinion, we should continue until the end of this item on the agenda, which is to say, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on lawyering, and when this is over, we will continue with the law which was announced this morning. Are there any comments on my interpretation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday it was announced that today's afternoon session of the National Assembly would begin with the Veterinary Act. I agree with this, Mr Vice-President, that after the conclusion of this law, which we have discussed in the morning, we should start with the veterinary law. If that's the case, then I agree with that, or else I insist on that deal from yesterday, or the announcement that was yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'll make sure we do what we're told. So we continue with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on legal representation. The LDS task force requested one-hour leave. Please, if they can express their views, if they want to. [[They don't want to.]] That's why we're dealing with this, so we're dealing with Article 1. [[...]] I've been given a little training on how to proceed with this procedure. We are discussing the amendment of Majde Zupan to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? The debate has already been concluded and we will vote. We're voting. 75 Members and Members present. For 15, against 33. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the whole article. I'm at 76. 37 for, 13 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 3. The proposal is the Slovenian People's Party + SKD. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Sponik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. As I announced in the debate earlier, our Group tabled this amendment. She also followed the Secretariat's warning. This is about the issue of Article 21 of the current law, which speaks of non-compatibilities. Point 3 states that it is incompatible with the performance of a lawyer’s profession to perform a notariat. The Government proposes that this provision be deleted. In our view, however, it would be wise to keep the non-compatibilities clause in the law. We also drew attention to the constitutional separation of the notariat and the legal profession. This also stems from the significant differences between the functions of these legal services. As has already been said in the debate, notaries have public powers, while the work of lawyers includes legal advice, representation and defence of parties before courts and other state bodies, the drawing up of documents and the representation of parties in their legal relations. We therefore assess that the reasons for the State assembly to support the decision that the law still contains a provision on non-compatibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you. Does the government want a word? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	Good-bye! Just for a little while. This is not about any conceptual change if we delete, as proposed by the government, this third point. It is simply a matter of the fact that such incompatibilities are already defined in the Notariat Act, so that it is not necessary for us to say so on this site, so we have proposed deletion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	I'll support this amendment for a statement of logic. In fact, if, like I'm reading it here, the Notary Act does not say that it's forbidden to do this and that, but it says that if you're not, then it's incompatible that I'm something else, that is, a lawyer. But it doesn't say anywhere that if I'm a lawyer, I'm in another marriage, so I can stay out of it. If it was a conjunction - believe me, that's true - then this one would really hold. Because I'm reading this in the dissension, so if I'm on the inside, then I'm not allowed to be a lawyer, but it doesn't say anywhere, if I'm a lawyer, then I can't be a notary. For this reason, it seems to me that we will not miss a single thing if we reintroduce this guardian in this law once again and that this guardian in this law remains the same as it is. Therefore, it seems wise to support the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Mr. Wolf, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. We talked about this issue in broad terms on the committee. It is a matter of incompatibilities between the lawyer and the notary or the notary and the legal function of the law on notariat. If we do not delete this, it means that we would prevent the exercise of legal activity by those foreign lawyers, from those countries of the European Union or countries within those countries that know double registration. In such a case, they would be in breach of a directive which provides that a non-discriminatory way should be allowed to carry out a legal activity. In particular, there would be a problem, at that point, a lawyer would not be able to register this activity because the law on legal representation would still state that the lawyer is incompatible with the notary. Of course, this provision only applies when we become full members. The Committee has made clear that this does not mean that we are eliminating incompatibility at this time, it is said that lawyers could provide notary services. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Member Lavrinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	I almost quit, except in that part, I'd fix my buddy Wolf when he said, "if we don't delete it." No, no, if we delete it, we'll do it. I therefore propose that you define yourself as a parent working body that has not supported this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Member Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll support this amendment myself. I think that Slovenian legislation must take care of Slovenian legal arrangements, not that we are already going to climb abroad in advance. I think it's imperative that we accept this amendment. If foreigners want to work with us, why should foreigners be better than Slovenians? We will limit Slovenians to the law of lawyers or limit them to other laws, but we will give in to foreigners. I am certainly not in favour of this; if anyone wants to come to us, he will register only with one of his activities, not with everything possible. The Italians are known for being able to register for anything under their legislation, on the one hand, for lawyers, for notaries, for shopkeepers and snake tamers, and for what I know. But now we're going to let this happen so that they can do things with us that our people can't?Oh, my God! I think it's cagey, and this amendment needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Yeah, "ignorantia inuris nocturnal", not knowing the law hurts. I'm sorry there's such a thing. Therefore, at this moment, I appeal to the government representatives to give a slightly more fiery and precise indication of what 'catch' is. This is about - so what was now said is that someone as a foreigner will come to us and register both activities, this is nonsense! No way! But we do have a law on notariat that tells us exactly how someone can get to the Notary profession. That's one. My friend Wolf said it nicely - and if you'd listened to him, there couldn't have been such a discussion. It is only those, i.e. for the first time, foreign lawyers, some, who can be in their countries - as explained on the committee - also notaries. And just so that these people who have in their countries and countries - these are very few - it is also important to say - that these people are allowed to carry out a legal profession in Slovenia and thus sufficient to actually require changes to the law on lawyering in general, it is necessary to do so. As far as Slovenia is concerned, Slovenia lies as a whole in the European Union and is therefore adapting its legal order to the European Union. It's not about anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you. I'll allow myself first to give my word to the minister to explain things.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	Mr. Chairman, it's a replica before.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Well, all right. A deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u109	It will be very short, if Mr Lavrinc is in Latin, I will say in Slovenian, a lack of intelligence, it hurts even more.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u110	There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u111	Your Honor! In fact, I would just like to repeat what Member Wolf has said. I would have said that by mistake in the initial justification for objecting to this amendment. This may, in fact, be the reason why it would have been known to be non-European if the old provision remained, so we follow the Government's proposal. So that's what this is all about. No one will be in Slovenia, even if we go to reject this amendment, if we follow the government, they will not be able to carry out both activities. That's perfectly clear. However, it will not be in difficulty, if the State of Slovenia tries here under one or the other conditions, or in one or another form, to pursue the profession of a lawyer from one country, which is also registered as a notary in its own country. At that time, however, we might find ourselves in difficulty in the sense that this law is in conformity with the rules of the European Union. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Member of Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u113	Mr. Minister, but then I understand that this law discriminates against Slovenian lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u114	Ambassador Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u115	I have a replica of Mr. Jelinčič. Granted, a lack of intelligence is even more damaging. That is why I would remind Mr Jelinčič of his feat when we adopted a law on companies in these premises and wrote under his ideal leadership that foreign nationals cannot be directors in our companies, as we, of course, had to correct it very soon, because it was not compatible with the European legal order, so to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you. Here you go. A deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Well, Mr Lavrinc, the characteristic of me and also the Slovenian national parties is that they care for Slovenian citizens and citizens, not for Europe and for all those who think they will cut your bread in time and will. With regard to Mr Lavrinc's intelligence, I am also reminded of one matter, the law on Members and the law on retirement, where under his command we have adopted terrible laws on retirement, of course with the assistance or guidance of colleagues from DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much. A little out of context is the whole thing. I propose to honourable Members and Members that they should limit themselves to the agenda but not explain some of the older matters. Kebrich Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u119	A short replica. Although the chairman has already reminded his colleague Jelinčič, I believe that he is taking advantage of every opportunity to show how he is opposed to DeSUS because he is guilty that DeSUS has received more votes than the national party. Thank you. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u120	Once again, I ask the honourable Members not to engage in such a debate. Mr Partlič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u121	I know Mr Lavrinc and Mr Jelinčič well, and I consider myself a friend of both. And since I know them so well, I assure you completely serious that their minds are very quality and very high. And if you compete in this, because of this capacity, there will be no end of the session. So I would suggest you stop this competition, who's smarter, because they're both very smart.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u122	Mr. Jelinčič wants another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm replicating Mr. Partlich, of course. In fact, Mr Partljič, I think you will deserve a replica from Mr Kebrich because you did not mention him in this regard, but he will give Mr Kebrich a replica in due course. Thank you. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u125	When skipping sparks, you could put a dot on a Latin saying that uses both adjectives and a good one. He says, "Este bonus, salt senum poste eseperitis" or "be at least good if you can't be smart." [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u126	Well, I think we've completed these various talks and we're going to focus on the agenda. Please, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The purpose of our parliamentary group was extremely serious when we proposed this amendment, even though the debate went on in a slightly different way. The most substantive discussion was discussed by Comrade Vukko and he also listed some of the reasons that could be detrimental to us, i.e. against this amendment. It would be very important for me to ask or to tell which are those European EU Member States in which it is possible for the notary to also serve as a lawyer, so that both functions are compatible. I don't know if we can talk about plural, maybe double. It is known that only in two German federal countries. Therefore, this information is important because this is referred to as the main argument why it is therefore necessary to delete this Article on incompatibility. This information is very important to us. He's standing here, and our amendment is falling. My explicit question on the Committee has never been clearly stated in which European countries, in what way. What's the status of the notaries there? Are notaries there also performing their work obligations on the basis of a concession or something else? We have received quite a bit of information on this subject, and we have then assessed that, despite the government's proposal for a solution to this decision to enter into force only with the entry into force of the EU, we have retained this amendment. Finally, the magus. Bizjak comes from our party, but we did not want to cause him any problems, but we have tabled an amendment out of responsibility and we are confident that we will make the right decision after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. 76 Members and Members present. 34 for, against 25. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 25.]] The amendment was adopted and deleted in Article 3. We have an amendment to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? Here you go. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you, Chairman. I've already explained at first reading, in fact, the main reasons. I would only point out once again, for the first time, that this article does not refer to the harmonisation of the law on legal representation with the directives of the European Union. Secondly, we are assessing that we are adding a new condition for obtaining the right to a lawyer's profession and asking the question of the equivalence of the treatment of these professions in the field of the judiciary if we compare this with judges, notaries, prosecutors, etc. Thirdly, by testing the content covered by this indent, we will not solve the problem of incorrect charging of legal fees, infringements of legal ethics and improving and knowledge of legal rules, since the legal rules include, as far as I know, the law on lawyering, the statute of the bar and the ethics itself. Fourthly, all those young students who have to wait patiently to be given the opportunity to pursue a legal profession, to acquire this profession, we send them to new trials, while those who, according to the Chamber of Lawyers, have been given the opportunity to do so leave them completely alone with the transitional provision and do not send them to these trials. Maybe that's all. We are not opposed to further education, but in this case it is not an additional education of lawyers, but an additional condition, additional red tape, which prevents a person from becoming a lawyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. There's someone else who wants to discuss it. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As with the working body, I do not now intend to support this amendment by Mr Vukko and the co-signatory, although Mr Vukko and those who submit that this amendment or that the amendment to this article is not related to compliance with European legislation. Why do I intend to vote against it? The pre-graduate education of knowledge lawyers required to carry out a legal profession is also not included in the Single State Legal Examination test. These skills are not defined and covered as specific knowledge in that examination. Therefore, it seems to me that by getting to know the rules governing lawyers, lawyers' ethics and possibly any other knowledge, however, when entering a particular profession that requires special knowledge, it is worth supporting such a form of examination and thus ensuring that, I do not say, it is also to protect those who seek the assistance of lawyers in reaching or entering a judicial path that they do not know themselves and that lawyers are necessarily required to ensure that this service they receive is not only done in a qualitative manner but also in accordance with the tariffs that exist for legal services. I do not imagine that any citizen who needs these services would also know what the rules are and what the tariffs are for this. Even less, I believe that even if he found out something like this, he would have protested too much. As I say, I intend to vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u133	Mr President, I would just like to say for a moment why the proposaler opposes this and the amendments which he has made to him. First of all, it is because of European lawyers, i.e. lawyers from other countries of the European Union, that it is important to introduce such an examination because these lawyers will not carry out a legal examination in that country. Non-discrimination requires that the same thing be introduced for our future lawyers, which is not too much in itself. Some of the reasons have already been said. I think it is right for a lawyer candidate to present himself with his knowledge, not the entire legal order, but with the rules on lawyering, ethics and tariffs, in order to verify at least that basic one, whether he has taken this profession seriously after this salary, which is an independent profession and is such a nature that, of course, there is no direct control over its implementation. Poor implementation, in particular in these three ways, can cause real problems for many individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Please. Wolf Dushan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, these arguments also speak in part for the proposed ones, as set out in the proposal for a law. However, I do not think that we are meeting for the first time with the lawyer in Slovenia. If the tension of this law were, the one now mentioned would be indicated in the explanation in the assessment of the situation. The explanation of the proposal clearly sets out who proposed and who notes. Solicitor's office found out there was a violation. There was no talk of compliance with the directives and so on. Once again, I would like to point out that the bar, for me, seems to me to be more about putting a law firm in some kind of capacity, and that we will pass on a function to an institution that does everything: educates, proposes, supervises and punishes. This is a concentration of some functions, which I also find to be very dangerous, that in one institution all these individual parts, which I mentioned earlier, come together: from monitoring, education, to checking and punishing those who do not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Maybe.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u137	President, thank you so much for your word. Neither will I vote for this amendment for the next reason. When I graduated from high school, I was named Professor of Mathematics. I went to class, I was an intern for a while, and at the end of it I was working, it's called a professional exam, which included also knowledge of the law in the area that I represented and other things. When someone finishes college, he gets the name "graduate." The university graduate lawyer then follows a certain practice and carries out a judicial examination. With this judicial examination, it may then be possible, if he is duly authorised by the national assembly, to be a judge or to carry out any other business. But if he's a lawyer, he still has to go to a lawyer's internship, a lawyer's intern, and when he's done that, he's got a lawyer's room with no background, or whatever, so he can call a lawyer and do these things. It seems to me that in such small demands that are listed here in the law to further carry out the test of knowledge, and this from the tariff, I think there should be no fear that you would not do so, from the lawyer's ethics and from that third thing that you mentioned a little earlier. It seems to me that this is one thing that would give us quality lawyers who would represent us, not that it could happen, and it is right for the bar to have a lot of, lots of cases of complaints when lawyers charged services beyond what legal ethics require. I don't believe this thing was conscious in most cases. But if it was, then it's somewhere else. And if the bar does so itself, and what the minister has said, it would only be good for the people we trust to represent us before the courts or before other disputes anywhere else, to impose an additional little test by this law. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you. Member Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment. We're a little bit here, I think we've mixed up some things. We're talking about tariff. If what is supposed to be in this proposal is true, then every time the tariff changes, all lawyers should be tested, which, of course, would be completely pointless. It can happen that, say, a high-level lawyer, a judge, I don't know what, after 20 years of very demanding legal work, he asks to be admitted to the bar and will be sent to a knowledge test. I'm not saying that lawyers don't require some special skills, but it's probably more related to another matter that has been discussed among lawyers for a long time as to what the exams should be. There are different ideas, about three parts, etc., that would and will, if they would, solve these issues as well. As regards the misuse of taxes, this is, of course, sanctioned and prohibited. Whether or not someone takes the exam or doesn't make the exams out of these cabs, it's totally irrelevant. Probably the person who mischarges taxes doesn't charge because he doesn't know how these fees are charged, because it's very simple, like all the other fees, he writes on some paper, what's used for and how. Therefore, one does not need to have additional expertise, and I feel that this is also a partial mistrust. In the final stage, we can also go to the school system and college, etc. That is why I think that it is absolutely unnecessary and that it is probably only going in the direction of closing an act and that I will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Moge's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u141	I'd object to an emissary's colleague. It seems to me that his argument on terribly torn legs, when he says when the tariff changes, would then, when we introduce this exam, have to retest the knowledge of the tariff. Then all the judges, whenever they change any law, should do so again. I don't think the argument about why such an amendment should be supported in this way will hold up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u142	Mr. Wolf has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u143	Maybe there's another argument for accepting this amendment. All of us are probably concerned about our citizens and, yes, this has been heard many times today, but we were talking about tariffs, and they're too high, etc. Are lawyers represented before the courts on the basis of legal rules or on the basis of regulations which constitute a mandatory component of a professional state legal examination? In all cases, it is not a matter of law that does not say what a bond contract must be like, what a lawsuit, what a criminal, predictive procedure each individual can do. That's not what the law on lawyering is about. I really don't! All these lawyers operate and represent their clients on the basis of those laws or areas that they have acquired during their schooling, and then at a state judicial examination, before the judicial exam, they demonstrate knowledge from these areas. And it's important that they master that and that there represent the interests of the parties so that they can always be given a hat down. Not on the basis of the law. But I don't know anyone in this lawyer's competition who's going to do a lawyer's exam without reading the law on lawyering. Please! It's like getting on the road and not reading the road safety law, so you don't know which way you're gonna drive. I think that competition will also do its part and that those who do not know the rules that will be poorly represented by the parties, and not least, will charge the customers tariffs, in violation of the rules adopted, that people themselves will put them on the verge and that they will stop this activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you. Someone else wants a word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u145	I allow myself to have these arguments, but without wanting to prolong the debate, let me say something. By the time we get to the road, we may be thoroughly questioned, but we may already know all about cars and all that. It's similar here. This relationship between a lawyer and a client is just some confidential relationship that has some special features. I agree that such lawyers who do not act in accordance with the rules on legal representation and with legal ethics would eventually go to robbery. By then, however, so many and so many parties would have experienced their own procedures, not only disappointment, but probably even life traumas, because people simply trust anyone who has a board with a lawyer's label. And this provision should help to make all those with such a trust board worthwhile.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you. I conclude the debate and move to a vote, Article 5, the first amendment. I must point out that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to Article 6, Article 13, Article 17, Article 18, Article 19, Article 3. If the amendment is not adopted, the vote on these amendments is irrelevant. We're voting. 77 present. 33 for, 20 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 5 as a whole. 76 present, 42 in, 6 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that Article 5 has been adopted. We are moving on to the bound amendments to Article 6, first of all Article 6. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. 73 present, 22 in, 9 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We move on to Article 13, second amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 70 present, 35 for, 9 versus. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We move on to the next related article, the amendment to Article 17. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 70 present, 23 for, 10 versus. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the next link, the amendment to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 69 present, 30 for, 11 versus. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We move on to Article 19, the third amendment. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Danica Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I do not believe that there are many options, but, however, because these amendments are connected and because I have advocated from the outset the view that it would be good for the law to be adopted in the form proposed by the Government, I propose and encourage those Members and Members who have thought similarly that we are voting at least against this Article, and then that compliance will be somewhat disrupted and we will be able to table amendments and try to oppose Mr Vukko's position. I will therefore vote against this amendment on my own, so that we may try to adopt a solution that we have been discussing here for quite a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] So we're voting on the amendment, article 19, third amendment. 67 present, 32 for, 17 versus. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're going back to Article 13, the first amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. A little patience, please. Article 13, first amendment. 65 present, 34 for, none against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 13 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 66 present, 39 for, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 13 has been adopted. We are moving on to a new Article 13a. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 68 present, 37 for, one against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 14. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 68 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We vote on Article 14 as a whole. Article 1 Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 68 present, 37 for, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 16. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? I am also putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Members, Beumann Richard, which we have received on the bench. The word is Beumann Richard.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. This amendment seeks to delete Article 71b, which imposes sanctions for infringement of the prohibition on the advertising of legal activities. I have already asked the Secretary of State in the morning why it is in fact forbidden to advertise in law. His answer did not convince me, so I decided, of course, to submit this amendment together with my cosigners. I think that attorneyship is really part of the judiciary, some special service, an independent, special importance. At the same time, it is a free profession. Lawyers, of course, work in the market, like everyone else. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to prohibit advertising at all, but even less I think it is appropriate to sanction this. I therefore suggest that you once again support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Member Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I oppose this amendment by a group of Members. Look, I think this is such a sensitive area for citizens. It's a human river that says good treasure is just bragging. I think that the possibility of advertising here could actually be great, in a way a negative trend that citizens in some way have an objective opportunity without any bias to choose their legal representative. That's why I think this amendment is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you. Member Mogo has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u153	I'm going to try to explain a little more graphically why I'm not going to support this amendment myself. He who heals the body is a doctor. Anyone who helps treat legal matters is a lawyer. Anyone who helps the soul heal, well, forgive the word, but he's a priest or maybe something else. Well, I'm saying, there's something else I didn't let go. Well, I'm saying I'm gonna be a painter. It seems to me that these profiles, doctors, lawyers, and that if not something else, are at least distasteful for advertising to appear in the media, whether audiovisual or newspapers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u154	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. So if we were to adopt this amendment, which, of course, I object to, because the proposed text is going in the opposite direction, then we would leave the law to prohibit advertising. The amendment does not remove the prohibition from the law itself. This ban has so far had no sanctions. So, if we were to decide to go into the release of advertising, then it would probably be consistent to lift the ban. However, that would not be appropriate. A number of arguments have already been made, including comparatively legal ones, such arrangements are such that such advertising is not admissible. Therefore, by this article, which the Member wishes to abolish, we are merely trying to sanction a ban that already exists, simply so that the prohibitions do not hang in the air, that the law is somehow perfect. The prohibition is also subject to sanctions if anyone does not respect this prohibition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you. Member Beumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u157	Of course, it is also possible to think this way, but look, the billmaker is talking about illegal advertising. If you were consistent, then you should state permitted forms of advertising. At least that. Not to mention that I think the punishment of 500 thousand is very, very high, compared to some other essential penalties, I will also say morally questionable acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go. Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, of course, that I will oppose this amendment. For the sake of all that we have discussed here today, it is, of course, totally pointless to delete criminal sanctions and allow them, because this debate is, of course, intended to allow and ensure the advertising of a lawyer's profession. Before that, however, we have heard explanations as to why this is not good, why it was considered at the time of the initial adoption of the law that this provision was introduced into the law, and of course it makes no sense. I think it's overly liberal or liberal to delete a criminal provision, but the prohibition to leave and essentially state lawyers, please, it's not about anyone and whoever you are, it's about lawyers, it's about advertising their profession, it's against the law, because we're going to delete it generously, even though the government is proposing it in this case. I myself will support the proposal made by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the first amendment to Article 16. We're voting. 67 Members and Members present. Twenty-eight, nine against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on the second amendment, the amendment of the Group of Members, Beumann Richard. We're voting. 67 Members. 16 for, versus 32. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment was not accepted. We still vote on Article 16 as a whole. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 67 present. 42 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] Article 16 was adopted. We're moving on to Article 19. We have two more amendments under number one and number two. Anybody want to talk? Please, the likeness of John.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Allow me to briefly present the contents of the amendment to Article 19. Article 19 speaks of when the law enters into force. However, it has an exception for certain articles to apply only from the date of accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. In our Group of Members, we propose to exclude Article 4 from the Government's proposal. So that Article 4 would apply immediately. What is the content of Article 4? With the amendment of Article 4 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyering, the current restriction that a Slovenian lawyer cannot have a branch is limited only to the Republic of Slovenia. For the law in force says that a lawyer cannot have a branch of a law firm. The Secretary of State explained earlier that this was the concept of law and explained why it was so. The amendment of the law therefore binds this restriction only to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the proposed amendment opens the possibility for Slovenian lawyers to open their office or branch anywhere abroad, in accordance with the legislation of the host country. Article 19 renders this solution to the proposal until Slovenia becomes a full member of the European Union. This means, of course, that Slovenian lawyers who, after this time, cannot open branches in Slovenia or abroad, could open branches abroad, in the European Union or elsewhere. And here is also the emphasis "wherever" is made on the occasion when Slovenia enters the European Union. In the debate on the Committee, I highlighted this 'where else', even in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Macedonia. In our view, such a solution would constitute an unnecessary delay in the possibility for Slovenian lawyers to open branches abroad. Of course, as a matter of fact, under the conditions in force in the host country. But it is true that I was surprised here, that the bar itself opposed such a solution. I didn't understand why. I'm the one who assessed it as non-ambitious. Why not allow Slovenian lawyers to also open their office in Croatia, but not only in the European Union, I say anywhere else. That's why we proposed an amendment, as recorded in our paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u163	A replica of the last conversation, Mr. Sponik. We accept jurisdiction for Slovenian space. Of course, what our lawyers will do around the world is not relevant m7. Rather, they will have to follow the laws they come into in order to establish either a branch or something. That's why I think it's redundancies.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you very much. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u165	It's a misunderstanding. Indeed, it is precisely the fact that the proposed release of the possibility of opening branches abroad is not limited to the countries of the European Union on its own, why it is therefore necessary to limit this provision to the effect that this provision enters into force when we enter the European Union. It's illogical here. We propose that this provision enters into force immediately so that our lawyers can immediately have a lawyer's office abroad, if they so wish, in accordance with the legislation in these countries. But as it is said, the attorney general, as the secretary of state said, objected to such a solution. Unusual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Ambassador Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment, because it makes sense, is one of the few amendments that will bring this law a little closer to Slovenian interests. Nor do I understand why the government is so afraid that Slovenian lawyers would be able to work abroad. On the other hand, it has wide open doors to all foreign lawyers in Slovenia. Once again, we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u168	Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the first amendment to Article 19. We're voting. 63 present, 39 for, one up. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. Present 65. For 19, against 15. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 19 as a whole. We're voting. 66 present. 36 to 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Article 19 is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. 66 sent and Members present. For 40, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Present 66, 38 for, against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. A larger number of amendments have been adopted and authorised qualified applicants have been asked to table amendments, if that is what they want. Anyone want to table an amendment or an amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We may have voted too quickly before, when we voted on the first amendment to Article 19, we also voted to place a comma and number 3 in Article 19 for number 2. And this is the article that we deleted earlier. Therefore, our Group of Members will table an amendment to delete number three.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group forecasting to table an amendment? In this case, I will have to interrupt this agenda item so that written amendments can be tabled. I suggest we proceed with this agenda item tomorrow, when the meeting begins at 10 a.m. Until then, of course, qualified applicants have the opportunity to propose amendments. Does the National Assembly agree with that? I am putting to the vote or I am hearing because only one parliamentary group has announced that the amendment will be tabled immediately, we will take a few minutes. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u171	Members and Members of Parliament are requested to occupy their seats. We recognize the presence in the hall! [[66 present.]] The assembly is adjourned and can proceed with the work. We have received the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party + SKD to Article 19. It reads: In Article 19, the number 3 is deleted. Anybody want to talk? Please, John the Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u172	Mr. Vice President, just for a moment. As I said earlier, since the State Assembly, in the context of the swift second reading procedure, had deleted Article 3 from the second reading, the amendment of the Committee under Article 1 to 19, where the number 3 was also written, namely Article 3, was essentially necessary for the editorial correction to be deleted in Article 19(3). And that's what our amendment did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u173	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting. 64 Members present and Members present. 39 for, against 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment to Article 19 was adopted. Someone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] Since we have ended our vote on the amendments, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, pursuant to Rule 198, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present. For 45, against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] The law was passed. With this, I interrupt this point, I'm sorry, we still have an additional decision by the Internal Policy Committee. It reads: The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs is authorised to carry out an appropriate drafting of all references to related articles and other necessary language corrections in the final edition. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 70 present. For 45, against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] The proposal was adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. I thank all of you for taking part in this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's a defensive proposal for a Veteranist Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We'll wait a few more moments for a government representative to come. Please, procedurally, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u174	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. For a few days, we've been trying to figure out where the fundamentals of marriage are. As far as I'm concerned, there's a lot more. I do not believe that the debate on the law can be held today, so I suggest that it is better to bring the open issues together first and then start, not end part of the debate, the general debate, and then we have a second pause. I therefore propose that we do not discuss this point until harmonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you. It's a procedural proposal. I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. Attending 70, 30 to 16. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 16.]] The procedural proposal has been adopted. Another procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I ask my colleague whether or not I ask the Vice-President if you can ask the fellow Member, what if this coordination does not take place? Then what do we do? I think there are all the conditions for us to decide the law. We discussed the law on the committee. Indeed, one issue is still unresolved and perhaps some other issues will be raised at the plenary session and will also need to be addressed. That is why I propose, Mr Vice-President and distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that we begin the debate. We have all procedural options, and also on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we have decided to draw up a secretariat for the third reading, and I think all the conditions are given. If we have a second hearing, it may be the third hearing next week, Comrade Potsch. I don't think this proposal is correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I regret to note, of course, that a decision has already been adopted in this respect and, of course, this next procedural proposal simply cannot be put to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u178	Mr. Vice President! You have promised me that there will be a debate and I do not think it is appropriate that you put to the vote the proposal of colleague Potræ.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u179	Of course we can have a discussion about this, only you know that any procedural proposal must be put to the vote. Most of them have made the decision they've decided to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u180	Now it's a question of correctness or not. Look, Mr. Kremberger! Representatives of the sending groups are now sitting in government premises with some government representatives coordinating the text, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And that's why and that's why it hasn't been coordinated yet. [[...]] I know the Minister is here, and he can make an introduction, but it is necessary to prepare the appropriate amendments for a second reading in order to be in the third. We had an agreement to meet today, and that was not possible because there were other obligations that were governmental and we agreed on them together. There is no intentional delay, but it is to deal with the law, in my opinion - to see if colleagues and colleagues from individual parliamentary groups coordinate here and are not here. So they're still working on coordination now. That's why I'm in favour of setting a deadline, and it's said to be Tuesday at 10:00, and by then we'll definitely be able to do it. But I would not like to give any qualifications to the law now, because this will come later when we discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u181	Members and Members present would only ask that we no longer discuss. The procedural decision has been adopted and the law will come on the agenda when the coordination is complete. I expect this to happen as soon as possible. I'd like to ask again, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think that we could see my debate as a new procedural proposal so that we can have a first hearing. But that's true, as my friend Potts said, that they're still sitting, so we sat for four months. There are some questions that we will also have to resolve here, unfortunately or fortunately, in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u183	Well, I regret to interrupt this debate in some way, because the procedural proposal was, it was voted as it was voted. I kept my promise, we put it on the agenda, but the procedure is procedure. As a result, we will have to move on to the next item in the agenda. However, I agree that this law should be put on the agenda as soon as possible. Ambassador Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u184	Procedurally. Mr Vice President, I would like to warn you that we are in violation of the rules of procedure. It clearly states that there is no debate on the procedural proposal. We have voted and should not allow further clarification. Anyone who makes a procedural proposal shall have the right to explain it and shall then be voted on. Please respect this, because otherwise we're just stalling, wasting our time and violating what we've accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u185	Of course, I thank you very much for this and I conclude this debate. We're moving to Please, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I note that due to the total disharmony of the coalition, the work of the National Assembly is seriously hampered and the reputation of Parliament is suffered. That is why I propose that the coalition sit at the conclaves, with all the cardinals and patriarchs in the background, and finally agree on what they want, how they will rule [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u187	Wait a minute! That's not a procedural question, which is what you're explaining now, and I'm gonna have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u188	I have proposed a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u189	It's abuse!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u190	and to determine at their conclaves who commands, who cleans shoes, and so on, and not to look at it before this assembly. [[...]] Sit down and then do not interfere with the National Assembly! I suggest they leave immediately and come up with a proposal on how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u191	Such discussions are also an obstacle to work. But thank you very much, though. We're moving to PORTRAITS OF THE DAY’S PERIOD, 6 / 15 POINT OF THE DAY ORDER OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BREAKDOWN LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Secretary of State Hinko Jenull.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u192	Dear Members and Members. The government proposes to amend and supplement the Act on Offences following a reduced procedure. In very short, changes are necessary because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has found that Article 202 of the Offences Act does not comply with the Constitution because it does not allow judicial protection in the event that a foreign penalty is imposed for the termination of the driving licence. The Constitutional Court has pointed out that it is possible to achieve equal treatment before the law in two ways: either that the judicial protection is extended to the said foreign penalty or that the judicial protection is fully removed in the infringement proceedings. The Supreme Court’s position was to adopt the latter decision, i.e. that judicial protection as a special form of exceptional remedy should be removed in the Act on Offences. Accordingly, we propose to delete the provisions on judicial protection and accordingly propose a transitional regime for those cases in which such requests have been made and, in the light of the requirements for the protection of the legality left in the law, in cases where the case where such requests are intended to be made in advance has been dealt with with with the requirements for judicial protection. In addition, we propose, following a reduced procedure, that the powers of the Senate for offences be increased to amend the decision at a second stage, which is in line with the solutions also in force in the criminal procedure. In addition, we propose that the law on proceedings before a judge for offences explicitly apply the principle of a lawful judge, which means that the cases must be assigned to work in such a way that the award of the case to a particular judge is outside the influence of any person and is left to a certain key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The Committee supports the proposed changes in the short term. He also drafted some amendments, which are attached to the report. The amendments were designed on the basis of warnings from our secretariat for legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? The word has been given to Gaspari, Ambassador Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I would like to take this opportunity because this law is on the agenda, namely the law on offences, and ask the government representatives whether they have in mind any more general change in the system in this area. The practice of the last ten years has shown that, given the European experience and comparability, Slovenian practice and experience are not appropriate. In many cases, in particular, when the inspection authorities carry out their task, this division of functions between the inspection bodies and the perpetrators of the offences is totally inappropriate, hindering and stopping the work. I can say this in the case of the tax, foreign exchange and certain other inspections. In a sense, it would be in my systemic sense to transfer the powers set out in this Title to appropriate inspections and to reduce the role, or even perhaps, I do not know, to abolish the Institute of Judges for Offences. Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the government's opinion on this, in writing or orally, I don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u197	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u198	Mr. Chairman! All I can say is that, of course, there is a whole new text of the Offences Act in preparation, because we are aware that the current text that has been supplemented so many times does not meet all the expectations. However, in order to comply with the Constitutional Court decision, we have also made a preliminary point of view with this amendment, which, in fact, follows the Constitutional Court's decision and which removes in advance what is already in the Constitutional Court's proceedings. The new text, and the new law, to a large extent, or these warnings that have been given here, will be subject to consideration in the preparation of this new law. So I hope that in due course, and certainly this year, we will come to the house with a new law on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss this anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. For 38, against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a report on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences, of 13.2.2001. We have two amendments. Members, please take into account the Committee's report. I shall make an amendment to Article 1 and Article 1 for consideration. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 65 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present, for 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 1 was adopted. I shall put Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 6. Present 65, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting. Present 63, 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] Article 6 was adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 64 present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. At 63, at 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Is it possible that a qualified proposer would table an amendment? Articles 1 and 6 are open. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does anyone want to discuss the whole law? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Since the law is mutually coordinated, we are voting on the law as a whole. Who's behind the law? We will have to wait for the technical service to see what the vote is. We will have to vote again. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiatives, Quick Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We'll wait a few more moments for government representatives to come. I got a message that the government will be here in five minutes, which is why I'm taking a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u200	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask if we can continue the meeting. Colleagues and colleagues, I would ask if you could take your seats in the Chamber of the National Assembly, because it is obvious that cards are more than a Member and Members and it is not possible to establish a conclusion. I'd like to ask if we can find out if there's a presence! 49 present. This is said to be a conclusion and we can proceed. We stayed with the government representative. During this time, Mr Minister has joined us and I invite him to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u201	Your Honor! The basic idea behind the amendment presented to the Referendum Act is to address some obvious shortcomings in the regulation of this institution in our country, as the profession has determined, as the Constitutional Court has also found with a well-known decision, to prevent obstacles in the legislative process from somehow normalising the institution in a manner known to them in the comparable right order, particularly where the referendum is a more well-established form, in Bavaria, Switzerland. Therefore, the government initially submitted a proposal that included, in addition to the solutions that you now have in the present form, the abolition of the previous legislative referendum and its replacement by a proper legislative referendum following the example of the above-mentioned Bavarian or Swiss regime. It turned out in later discussions that this was a demanding project. That's what the expert warned us about. The government has formed a special expert group, which is also working and systematically trying to amend this regulation. The contention of this attempt to replace the previous legislative referendum with the right referendum has also been highlighted by the Government's legislative service, in particular in terms of constitutional dispute, which means that this project has proved to be linked to previous constitutional changes. Thus, on the basis of the amendments to these amendments, which the government has subsequently tabled, today before you a proposal for actually two important changes that will, however, eliminate the jamming in this area. The first group of amendments refers to a legislative initiative where the threshold for signatures from now on is 200 to 1000, with some details of what this initiative should look like. The second group of amendments refers to a more detailed definition of the conditions for proposing to the Constitutional Court in its decision-making, to an assessment of the merits of the referendum initiative. For more details, see the deadlines for these two fundamental amendments. The rest is, of course, an open issue of compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, and the question is also raised so much in the section of the uniformly criticised previous referendum and its replacement with the right one. This is a question that awaits a more extensive amendment to the referendum law, following constitutional changes. The group I mentioned earlier, experts, continues to work, but the success of some more systematic innovation and the alignment of the referendum institute with the standards in force in the modern world is linked to previous constitutional changes. Thus, this time's innovation is simply, as I would say, aimed at eliminating what we call sticking sticks in a parliamentary bicycle to harmonise the fundamental shortcomings that have also been detected by the recent practice of a number of referendum initiatives, but of course, we commit ourselves to a comprehensive innovation, in parallel with constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u203	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee has considered this bill after the government has actually changed its position and has already tabled amendments, i.e. amendments that remove all doubts about constitutional dispute. Therefore, the debate was not as hot as it would have been. Nevertheless, a debate on the proposed law has been held in every three successive stages, especially because it does not answer all the questions raised in full. Finally, the Committee identified itself by supporting all the proposed amendments by the Government. I note that he was unable to identify himself to an amendment that arrived and was tabled on 1.3.2001, which is Mrs Majde Zupan's amendment, and did not support the amendment proposed by the Democratic Party of Retired Members' Group. So I propose that we follow these changes only in the first part, because I am joining the Minister's finding that the events of the last days are exactly the same - and this is the re-establishment of the referendum initiative, which is now linked to only 200 signatures - prevent the procedure which the Committee has supported from being followed, this is a quick procedure, to be completed, and we will have to put an end to the matter after the first hearing, that is, after the general debate, in my opinion. Well, that would be good enough for today's introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I also ask the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u205	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. A respected choir! There is nothing to add to the written opinion of the secretariat, which you have already received, except that its main concerns with the Government's amendment have been removed. However, I would also like to inform the assembly of the situation created with regard to the appropriate submission of the initiative, supported by 200 signatures, in respect of which the President of the National Assembly has set a deadline for collecting signatures starting on Monday. In this regard, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 17, in such a case, the State Assembly may not begin the third examination of the draft law before the expiry of the deadline referred to therein. In this regard, however, it would also point to the fact that the amendment in the third reading is extremely limited, so that it may have to be taken into account in practical terms and decide how the assembly will deal with where we really believe that there are no concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much. From this, we might conclude that it is reasonable today to have a first hearing and then a second and a third later. I think it is logical that we do so and that there is no need to vote on this matter, because we have here article 17 of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative, which in fact defines these things in advance and would be irrelevant. Thank you for explaining. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats supports the proposal to accede to the amendments and amendments to the Law on the Referendum and on Human Initiative. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is the legislator. I think it is right after the years of the implementation of the current referendum law that it is possible to see and assess whether all the solutions that are in force allow the National Assembly to exercise its role as legislator in sufficient quality content. This does not mean that we are asking any question about people's initiative and referendum, but we believe that these two institutions, like each other, must be used responsibly and properly. If the law allows for any abuse, any institution, including the Institute of Referendum or the People's Initiative, then it is only right that the National Assembly discusses it and sees whether changes and amendments to the law are needed. We are convinced that the experience so far, as well as the warnings from comparable European legislation, show that the regulation of the referendum and the people's initiative has not only produced positive results but has also raised many questions in the implementation. That is why we believe that it is right to change the law. Unfortunately, there was no willingness in the drafting of the law or sufficient unity in the assessment of what could be changed in the light of the current constitutional arrangements, so the draft law, including the amendments proposed by the Government, covers, in the opinion of our Group, the narrowest possible content. However, this scope is certainly such that it shows what to think as to whether a large legislative procedure is at all prudent and necessary. Any further reduction in this scope would raise questions about the necessary amendments and amendments to the law at all. We believe that increasing the number of signatures, as a condition for an initiative to be taken by the National Assembly, from 200 to 1000, is the minimum necessary extent. Not to prevent the initiative, but because the difference between the necessary signatures for the initiative is such that 40,000 signatures are required by citizens and citizens given in a much more demanding way through administrative units and registration, so large that the initiative can take place at an inadequate number of initiatives that many but difficult to collect the necessary signatures for the proposal. This practically means that those who give the initiative can also approach them irresponsibly without any consequences. The consequences are borne by the State as a whole because the legislative body cannot carry out its legislative function at least the time in which the signatures are collected. We have had cases where, on the basis of the signature initiative, 60 days have been collected and, in the end, it has not been officially published, how many have been collected and we have informally learned that only a few thousand have been collected, which is to say ten times less than it would have been necessary for the procedure to be initiated. I think that the current case that put us in a position in which the National Assembly can hold a debate on the referendum law at first reading alone further points to the need to amend the law. The candidates of the referendum, led by the country party Stajerska in Maribor, needed, I do not want to assess why, but this is the fact that 5 attempts have been made to submit an amended proposal for content and supported by 200 and more signatures. From 26.1., 1.3.,.7.3,12.3. and 19.3., I would say, week after week, they tabled proposals which in the first two cases were substantively disputed and later the number of valid signatures was missing, although there was an increasing number of signatures on the declared fields. I think that this particular case also shows more than obvious that it is necessary to tighten the number of signatures. If we were ready, our Group would be pleased to cooperate between those two-thirds of MEPs and Members, who would possibly increase the number to 2,000, as experts have suggested, because they said that this would be an appropriate ratio between the initiative and the necessary number, which is also around 5% in comparable European countries for the initiative from a later 100, to the extent that they must be gathered together. Finally, I should like to say that, after the deadline for collecting signatures, the procedure for second and third readings continues at an accelerated pace, which is one of the priority issues that we would put to the national assembly. Let us also say that the combined list of Social Democrats, as a parliamentary group and as a party, will act in public against gathering - to gather - to gather the necessary signatures. We believe that the gathering of signatures for this fact, from 200 to 1,000, to increasing the required number for the initiative, only indicates that the parties want to give unserious initiatives. Example: Styria's country party is an example - I hope to say so - of such unserious initiatives, otherwise they would not be collected five times by content and by number of signatures; but I also have data on the number of support that this party received at the last national elections, which is not significantly greater than the number of signatures collected. I think we need to make such a serious institution, such as a referendum, where it has to decide with full responsibility on very important social, legislative issues, prepare and deal with matters differently, but not as I would say, the fragility or the desire of anyone to make it difficult for the National Assembly to normally carry out its legislative function. I agree on the other issues with the Minister, who has pointed out that they will need to be prepared and dealt with when the debate on constitutional changes will also take place. Personally, I am sorry that she is an expert, I would say, every time she had any thought of any single point, and that it was not possible because of the political sensitivity of this issue, that no one would tell the coalition that they wanted to bring this institution out of the world, could achieve anything more, especially because we will remain on the pile of unresolved issues that practice has shown so far. One is certainly the previous referendum and its value, another is the question of how to determine the results of parallel referendums, which have triggered so many and so many debates in the current practice, also related to the obligation or means to implement decisions taken at the referendum by the legislative body of the national assembly. We can only hope that this minimum correction of up to a thousand, I hope, maybe more signatures gathered, a correction giving the National Assembly a few more options to assess whether the questions raised at the referendum are constitutionally correct, and that they are judged by the Constitutional Court, given the opportunity to see these most controversial issues in the following year, the two would not be present again in public and that they would not be more than enforceable, in fact have been funded by such an important institution as the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you. This was the position of the United Nations Group of Members. The following is the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I'm going to be very brief, because it's also a short change. The New Slovenia Group supports the proposal of the law. We believe that the increased number of signatories to the referendum initiative from the current two hundred thousand signatories does not lower the standard of direct democracy, but rather eliminates potential abuses. We are pleased, however, that the government has decided and has withdrawn the amendment and amendment of the law, which envisaged the abolition of the previous referendum and its replacement by the so-called Swiss-German legislative referendum, because it could be constitutionally disputed and such a change would require a transparent and reasoned democratic debate on the whole legislative procedure. The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment that we would like to ensure that the collection of signatures is not particularly difficult and we suggest that you accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Vukko, on behalf of the LDS Group, entered the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u211	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have taken the LDS Group's initial proposal to complement the law on referendum and human initiative seriously from the outset. At the outset, we drew attention to the position of the Secretariat of the National Parliament for Law and Legal Affairs, as well as to the position of the Government's Office for Legislation, which noted that the proposed novelties could be constitutionally controversial. It was pointed out that the proposal to abolish the previous referendum without adequate replacement would significantly affect the restriction of the constitutional right of direct enforcement of citizens in the conduct of public affairs, and the introduction of a new institute, the so-called legislative referendum on human initiative, would also constitute an intervention in the legislative function of the National Assembly. We have, of course, welcomed the government's decision to amend the original proposal and to withdraw the so-called Swiss-German model, so we fully support the amendments of the government, as the proposed amendment, taking into account the amendments, does not limit or reduce the use of the institution of direct democracy. However, at least according to our assessment, and thus, of course, we share the views of the coalition partners, as has been said, will achieve a reduction in the abuse of this institution, particularly in order to impede the legislative part of the National Assembly. In the LDS Group, we think it is particularly important that the legal profession on this issue is also unified, which in the past was quite the opposite of the position of individual eminent lawyers in Slovenia. We are also aware that the proposed amendment does not address all the legal and political issues arising from the referendum, and therefore we believe that it is necessary to approach the more radical changes to this law in the future and to bring the institution of direct democracy closer to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the amendment of the law be adopted together with the amendments of the Government and the amendments that have received support from the Committee on Internal Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS+SKD, Mr Janez Podobnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with Mrs Bitenchev's warning or advice, it is understandable that a different debate should be started. In the parliamentary group, we support the initiation of a procedure to amend the law on referendum and human initiative. And if we are formalists, the conclusion of this procedure will be clear, I think it's out there in the middle of May. Today, the first debate would take place in the framework of a rapid procedure. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that in the presentation of the government or Drnovšek, a special programme of the government was given to all Members and Members, which is also essentially the entire coalition treaty of the government coalition. In our parliamentary group, we have always been convinced that issues such as constitutional change, amendment of the law on referendum and human initiative, change of the rules of procedure, perhaps amendment of the law on parliamentary inquiry, that is to say those laws or other acts that need a greater majority than just the ordinary ones, are therefore areas beyond the responsibility of only a coalition. I would like to start my short act by stressing that this document states that the coalition will be trying to obtain these changes in the amendment of the referendum law and of the people's initiative. invite also opposition parliamentary parties to these changes. That seems very important to me, and that's what this document says. And a second time. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative was passed in 1994. I am still well aware of the extensive discussions and, above all, the professional work of a group of experts who helped the then national assembly team prepare the law. The fact is, however, that time has shown that some solutions have been misplaced, especially some institutions. The following year, 1995, the first year when the Constitutional Court reached out to this very important law with a decision, and it also repealed the 10th Article of the Act, which it provided, was interesting, perhaps we had already forgotten where the legislative referendum could not be declared. Therefore, this provision has been repealed. It has been said that laws adopted under a rapid procedure require the extraordinary needs of the State, the interests of defence or of natural disasters, laws directly dependent on the implementation of the adopted national budget, and laws adopted for the implementation of ratified international treaties. I also recall that most of the experts who participated in the preparation of this law in 1994 and the year before, are all established experts in the field of constitutional law and other legal issues, and some of them are again in the government group that will now prepare or in the expert group that is preparing comprehensive changes to the law. It is understandable that, within the framework of human and professional potentials, a nation of two million can do as much as it can. Why am I bringing this up? Because at the time the question of 200 necessary signatures, although it is true that the proposal was a little higher at first and we have reduced this number in the debates, then the question was not raised that it meant blocking or inserting sticks into the parliamentary cycle, but at that time all Members and Members were primarily based in terms of favouring and supporting the institution of the referendum. Practice is what it is. That is why our SLS+SKD Group supports the decision of the Slovenian People's Party to establish and propose amendments to the referendum law with some urgent issues. Our view is that the increase in the number of signatures needed to submit the initiative and the more precise regulation of cases where the National Assembly may request the Constitutional Court to assess whether the referendum could have counter-constitutional consequences, that first framework for these changes. We are aware, however, that every intervention in marriage is serious, responsible and, above all, professionally challenging and certainly requires a great deal of commitment. We do not underestimate the Institute, i.e. the number of signatures needed to submit the initiative. Perhaps it is precisely the fact that our debate is now accompanied by the current adopted initiative of some smaller political actors - colleague Potrč would only add so much to the fact that it is not only the List for Maribor, but also for some others, well, we have officially been written down by the List for Maribor, the Voice of Women of Slovenia, the Party of Slovenian Nationals and the Party of Equal Countries, that is with the date of 19.3.2001 [[reading the position of the Secretariat]] . Well, it's not a topic, it's a direct topic, but of course it's linked to that decision. In fact, it may be symptomatic or significant that our decision is therefore linked to the legal possibility that a group of 200 citizens and citizens with signatures should take the initiative to collect signatures for the previous referendum. On this issue, I have the following position, which I have always advocated in discussions with my colleagues in the coalition or with anyone. If the institute is valid and has a legal basis, then we must not or should not attack those who enforce it. But if there are elements here to say that someone is abusing this institute, let's be honest about the fact that he's being abused, but we're not blaming the institute itself. So the leap from 200 to 1,000 is not a small leap if we know the political culture in Slovenia and if we are aware of what frameworks and time capabilities it is necessary for a group of citizens and citizens to collect such signatures. Notwithstanding this position, as we say, our parliamentary group supports the government's amendment to the law to raise the number of signatures needed to submit the initiative. The debate on the working body itself has also raised some other conceptual issues that the expert group will face. As it appears, it has already been consolidated that the Constitution needs to be amended in order to make major changes to the law that is necessary. I'd like to draw your attention to one more fact. On the other hand, the report of the working body, the Internal Policy Committee, states: "There is no doubt that the issue of the outcome of the previous legislative referendum remains at the forefront." Those colleagues and colleagues who have been Members and Members of Parliament for the past four years will remember how blasphemous it has been to use this text on this site, but it has now been written down - "there is no doubt that the question remains at the forefront of the outcome of the previous legislative referendum". If the previous mandate had focused many hours of political energy on other subjects, but not on this issue, I would have done much good for this country. However, with the help of experts, this mandate has the opportunity to resolve this issue, not in this attempt, but in the next. Our parliamentary group, including the experts we are overpowering, will participate actively in this experiment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Kebrich will speak on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are aware of the responsibility when adopting the amendment proposal and supplementing this proposed law. We believe that we respect and must respect the people's initiative, because we are Members of all citizens and who among us would not listen to these specific proposals, the initiatives given by the people's initiative and given by the referendum. However, we believe that the way to make a certain change so far is to collect only 200 signatures, without any identification, I don't want to water down, or declassify anything, but we are aware of how the signatures have been collected so far, that sometimes the prescribed number has been collected, even more than 200, and in fact the actual signatures have not been 200. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary and necessary and beneficial to increase this number, especially to know what, who, and why it is signed. That's not possible until now. With this transition proposal, people who sign either will know at least what they are signing and why they are going to do it. But we think that the number 1,000 is the right number. If we assume that the electoral proponents are a million 700 or something more, that this is barely a good half percent, but not an excuse number 200, it represents barely, say, a good 3 forts or four. We believe that that is why, and we have even suggested that it is necessary and correct that a person who signs something and will now know what he signs to sign the title of the proposal should also be identified. So far it has been possible, and to some extent, if we do not accept any identification here, even in the future it is possible. I go to one stand or one list, I sign in my own name, but because I know the birth and other data of the residence of sons, daughters, sons, sons, grandchildren who already have electoral rights, I go there and give their information, I make a "cargo" downstairs and it's valid for that. We believe that when we go anywhere, we should have an identification document with us, because that's what the laws tell us, and if anything happens to us that we can immediately identify after this document, if it's an accident, it's possible to inform relatives. For this reason, I believe that everyone has a driver's license or passport, which is equally valid if he has a photograph. In our Group of Members, we will support the amendment or proposal of these amendments, but because I have asked you, in my words, to give your vote on our amendment to Article 2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports of yes. [[...]] Please. On behalf of the SMS. Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. The SMS Group will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which sets the limits for signatures from 200 to 1000, because we believe that this does not reduce the direct participation of citizens in the exercise of power, but only encourages the introduction of initiatives that are not sufficiently thought-out or numerically supported. Believe me, if the signature collectors collect you for a national important thing, the number 1000 won't be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Anyone else from the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Since there are no written applications, I limit the debate of an individual Member to 5 minutes. So I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Jerovšek. If you'll join us, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u219	The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on referendum and human initiative, as we now have on the table, is said by the amendments of the government, somehow the first ray of hope is that in Slovenia there is a chance that no constitutional solution will be trampled. We know that the first version of the law provided for the adoption of an anti-constitutional solution. If I am not mistaken, this has even led to criticism from the government's legislative service. It appears that because they have demanded from there that the Constitution be respected, that the limits to which the law may be amended, that the officer responsible for the duties of the law enforcement service has been replaced or that the service has received another chief, which is not a good sign for that country. The insistence on constitutionality should also be in this coalition, which is so strong, the principle and the threshold beyond which it should not be melted. As I have already said, I welcome the fact that at last the little bit of reason has prevailed, that the law has drawn closer and aligned itself with constitutional norms. I am not saying that everything about the referendum and the people's initiative in this country is perfectly resolved, but I advocate a procedure and legislative solutions that will always be in accordance with the Constitution. The beating of a constitution that was supposed to have catastrophic consequences. The draft of this law is a working basis on which, in the framework of the current constitutional solutions, I believe, it can be built on. I think he's matured in this form to be treated differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Who wants the word forward? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since my forerunner actually didn't understand what he was going to say about this law, it would be best if he said it again. In view of what human rights change has to do with the law itself, what we are dealing with here or, if I am even more precise, with the general debate on the law on the referendum, the amendments to the law on the referendum and the human initiative. I didn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you. The replica looks like it. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u223	Yes, if Mr Lavrinc, my colleague Lavrinc is pulling my tongue, of course I have to answer him. I hope that I am not mistaken that, in the first version of this bill, the Secretary-General said that the Government needed such a legislative service to support the decisions of the Supreme Coalition, it is said that this essence, which sits here and in the government, does not contradict, although it is what the Law Service gives, in accordance with the Constitution, the Secretary-General and others wanted to enforce some law that would be, after the taste of the government coalition or at least, the work of the government coalition. I think this has something to do with talking about the general debate. It is also necessary to say this in the general debate before the Slovenian public that there has been a temporary break at this point or, hopefully, a lasting one, that those ideas have not been implemented, that I think the Secretary-General of the Government, in which he has actually declared himself king of the sun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that a new person has come into this story, in short, two people are already performing, I still do not understand what his discussion has to do with the content of the law that we are considering. So let me be forgiven.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr Lavrinc, but there is no need under the rules of procedure for a Member to understand another Member. [[Laugh.]] I would point out once again that, under Rule 183 of the Rules of Procedure, we are talking in the general debate about the principles and objectives of the legislative proposal, so I would ask the debaters to stick to the rules of procedure. Please, who wants a word? Any more replicas? But the replica has to be about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u227	Yeah, yeah. With regard to the understanding of my colleague Lavrinz, I believe that with regard to understanding it is so that he is probably a lot of people called and few chosen. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you. I would ask if we could stop this way of debate because it makes no sense. Please, who wants another word? Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. In my debate, I would like to briefly rephrase my colleague Jerovška. Actually, I'm going to discuss the content. It was said that there had been a break, that constitutional categories had been taken into account. That's true. I didn't exactly understand you, Comrade Jerovšek, did you say it was part of essence? [[...]] So, colleagues in the LDS have 34 votes - a lot, but to change such a law too little, other votes are needed. Along with my colleagues in the coalition, when I sat in some of the talks, I noticed the following: indeed, there was an attempt to find a corrective way to delete the preliminary referendum and all the obligations of the national assembly with it by amending the law on the referendum and the human initiative, and that this institution would replace itself with a classic legislative referendum, a binding human initiative. These solutions have been prepared. When such a government legislature and, in particular, the Secretariat of the National Assembly, in a broad opinion, stated that such solutions could be contrary to the Constitution, we decided, together in this case, to propose to the Government that the amendments proposed only those solutions that are fully in line with the Constitution to form an expert group that prepares, following a regular procedure, a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. That's the way it was, and that's the way it was.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you. Who wants another word, please? Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I think it's good that there's been a change in the law on referendum and human initiative. Otherwise, what a change this will be, it will only be possible to see the government's forecast when, according to professional differences, the government prepares a comprehensive amendment to this law. So, the whole concept of this law. So it's only from these solutions that it's actually hard to see. But I think it's important for one principled reason. There was something about today's talk about respect for the people's initiative. There was a talk about collecting signatures. More, I'll say, in terms of mockery, czech, not 200 signatures or as much as they got in the election, and so on. I would like to recall the collection of signatures and, of course, we are also convinced that the number of 200 or 1000 or something in between is not a problem, if it is true matter, to get these signatures to begin collecting signatures for the referendum, in which case 40,000 signatures. Of course, it is not a problem at all if the matter is one that affects and interests the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to recall, and at least I would like to recall, that this will no longer happen when the people's initiative gathers 40,000 or more signatures to be joined by so-called qualified candidates, as in 1995, they even competed in minutes to submit a proposal for a referendum material, i.e. an election law, between the National Assembly, 30 Members and the Council of State. It was for a few minutes of difference and a fog which is covered by a special law on the implementation of a referendum, which the Constitutional Court has further stated if a referendum is to be carried out under such a law, such a case will be unconstitutional. Then the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was clearly known to be respected in the rule of law, not only did the will of the people and the people's initiative not respect the outcome of the referendum, that the Constitutional Court's decision was not respected, I hope that there will be no open door to all these anomalies when we speak of the rule of law in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it will no longer be possible to do so. But this is the only way we can talk about it when we get a full proposal to amend the referendum law and the people's initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you. Who wants a word, please? Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u233	Yes, thank you so much for this address that my speaker, Mr Puksic, had. For I was already afraid that we would not get another lesson from accounting and knowledge of the problem. I will tell myself that the goals and purpose of this law that we are adopting today or that is being debated in the first reading are very clear. And that is, to prevent the chicaneously working institute, which is happening just these days and has happened a few days ago. The referendum is therefore a form of direct democracy, which is used exceptionally and not as it has been used in recent times and is also an opportunity at this very moment. Otherwise, it is better not to talk about the things that Mr Pukšič is talking about again. In fact, I'm sure I won't be able to understand them again. I've been listening to this for years, and I haven't been able to understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u234	Mr. Puksich, please. Is that a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u235	While I hope that there is no misunderstanding or that Mr Lavrinc only understood me, if not, I will, of course, repeat this part. I said there's no problem between this or 200 or 1000 of these previous signatures or anything. We are serious about the approach to amending or obtaining legislation through a human initiative and, of course, through a referendum. However, I hope he understood that some of the institutions that were considered qualified candidates were not and had no serious intention of investing at the time and, of course, exploiting the Law on Human Initiative and the Referendum. I don't know if he was involved at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u236	Thank you. There's no more debate. Thank you. I note that no one wants to discuss any more and that I am also concluding the general debate. We are moving to Previously said that the first debate will take place today, so that the general debate is concluded and, of course, this point. [[...]] We continue with the proposal for a maritime code. I would like to remind you that this point was interrupted at the 3rd meeting on 28 February. The consideration of the bill was therefore initiated at the 3rd meeting, by which we suspended it in the examination of the 31st article of this Act, to which the three amendments were tabled. Now I am just trying to refresh your memory The debate on Article 31 has been concluded. We've already accepted the first amendment. It's on page 7 of the amendment review. That leaves us with a vote on the second amendment at this point. I welcome the representatives of the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope you've found yourself in this short time and found some material. So once again, so that there will be no misunderstanding, Article 31, the debate on Article 31 has been concluded, the vote on the first amendment has been taken. And now we are voting on the second amendment to Article 31. However, the debate has already been concluded, so that no further discussion can be held. So we are voting on the second amendment to Article 31. Let's vote please. 58 present. It's 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Then there is the third amendment to Article 31. It's on page 8. Oh, sorry, since we have adopted the previous amendment, the second amendment, the third amendment to Article 31 is irrelevant and therefore we do not vote on it. We are voting on Article 31 as a whole. So I'm saying just in case we get to know each other. We are voting on the 31st section of the law as a whole. Let's vote please. Of the 64 present, 39 were in favour and 10 were in favour. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that Article 31 with the amendments has been fully adopted. We're moving on to the new 31st. I am opening a debate on this Article. Who wants to talk about the new Article 31? I do not see any interest in the debate, so I conclude it. We are moving to a vote on the new Article 31st. Let's vote, please! Of the 65 present, 37 voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we voted on the new paragraph 31st. We're moving on to a new 31-b. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Sponik, follow him, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you very much. From the material of 21.2.2001 — is this a material, a review of the amendments, February 21st? - it's not clear what the government is like, but it would be good to hear it. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u238	Excuse me, Mr Podobnik, I would like to ask Members and Members if they can calm down so much - Mr Pucko, if possible - so that Mr Podobnik can tell us what this is about. Please, Mr. Squirrel, if you can repeat it. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you very much. You have previously found, Mr Vice-President, that sometimes it is difficult to acclimatize in a few moments to completely new matter, but it is difficult for Members to work and we are obliged to do so. I think we're taking on some very important stuff, and I'm asking you not to take me as a pain in the ass. I would like to have the government's position on the amendments tabled. Do we have a mischeck of the amendments? Were we informed on the additional text? Would you be so kind, Mr Vice-President, as to express the Government's position on an individual amendment if it wasn't too much?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u240	Thank you. Let me warn you first. The material has a marking - firstly, a review of the amendments to the proposal for a maritime code, rapid procedure, Ljubljana, 21.2.2001. The material is, I hope, the same as you, Mr Podobnik. This moment I received an answer to your question, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendments of Aurelia Yuri, Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to the proposal for a maritime code [[EPA 118-72]] "Quick procedure." The Secretary-General shall be signed. Are you satisfied with your answer, Mr. Podobnik? Thank you. So, a new 31-b article. Mr. Sok? [[He doesn't want to.]] Good. Anyone else? There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on a new Article 31b. Let's vote please. Of the 34 present, 24.5 voted against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the new Article 31b has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 33. We have two amendments here. Both amendments are off-limits. If the first one is adopted, then the second one is not up to date. First amendment first. I'm opening a debate on the first amendment. In fact, they can both because they rule each other out. Does anyone want a word on Article 33? Mr. Aurelio Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just so that we can continue to clarify the matter once again so that we do not get involved in unnecessary issues. The amendments drafted by the Committee are later than the amendments of the government and are agreed with the government. I would therefore like to remind the Chairman of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and his call for the Committee's amendments to be supported, as well as the relevant government amendments, if the amendment itself of the Committee does not destroy my 15 amendments, to the extent that they have been tabled, has been subject to coordination with the Government and the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. Last time there was a complication because there was no official position of the government towards these amendments. The next day, the government identified itself and wrote that list. The matter is now fully coordinated and I would ask you to follow the amendments I have tabled, which have a sign of support from the government and amendments to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 33 and, of course, the amendments tabled? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We will first vote on the first amendment to Article 33. We're voting please. Of the 65 present, 41.3 votes. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. This makes the second meaningless and, of course, we do not vote on it. We will now vote on Article 33 in full. We are voting on Article 33 as a whole. Of the 65 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 33 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 35. Even in this case, if I may warn you, two amendments, I'm sorry, just one amendment. [[...]] Yeah, that's right. Only one amendment where, as you can see, the word "yacht" is replaced by "ships" if, for the sake of clarity, I specifically say it. Who wants to discuss Article 35? [[Nobody.]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 35. We're voting. Of the 65 present, 42 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] So the amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 35 as a whole. We're voting. Of the 64 present, 37 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] This is how Article 35 was adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 36. We have two amendments here. However, if we look at the first remark, if we adopt the first amendment, the amendment of the government to this article, i.e. the second amendment, would become irrelevant in such a case. I am opening the debate on Article 36 and, of course, on the amendments as well. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 36. We're moving to the vote. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 36. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the first amendment has been adopted and, therefore, the second amendment is irrelevant. Therefore, we can move to a full vote on Article 36. Let's vote, please. Of the 66 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to section 38 of the Act. We have two amendments here. I am opening the debate on Article 38 and the amendments tabled. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 38 and move on to the vote. We will first vote on the first amendment to Article 38. Let's vote, please. Of the 66 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 38 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 38. Let's vote, please. Of the 66 present, 25 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 38 has been adopted. We are voting on Article 38 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 66 present, 38 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 38 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 40. Article 40 has one amendment. I am opening the debate on Article 40 and the amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I note that there is no debate, I conclude it and we move on to a vote on the amendment to Article 40. Let's vote, please. Of the 66 present, 38 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 40 as a whole. Let's vote please. Of the 66 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 40 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 41. If you look at page 11 where this article is article 41, we have two amendments to this article, which, like in a few cases already today, is a footnote: if the first amendment is adopted, the second is irrelevant. I am opening the debate on Article 41. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. I just want to warn you that these two amendments are exactly the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u244	So if they're the same, then we'll just be -- now I can't see if they're the same, but the government representatives are here and they'll tell us what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. If you allow me, the first amendment to Article 41 in the first sentence reads as follows: 'In the first paragraph, the third indent is added, which reads: 'Frequent maintenance of safety facilities for navigation and waterways.''. Then the next paragraph, which says, "A new third paragraph shall be added, which shall read:...," and this second paragraph shall be indeed the same as the next amendment. It's just this first part that's different.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you. Who wants another word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 41 and move on to a vote. First, we vote on the first amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 65 present, 39 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 41 has been adopted and therefore the second amendment is irrelevant. This way we can vote on the 41st Article of the Law in its entirety. Let's vote, please! Of the 66 present, 39 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Article 41 has been fully adopted. We move on to article 42, where there is only one amendment. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the amendment to Article 42. Let's vote, please! Of the 66 in favour of the vote, 42, 2 were against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 42 as a whole. Of the 66 present, 29. There was one against him. I take it that paragraph 42 has been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, it's 6:00 p.m., so I'm breaking this point. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we continue with this agenda item, and then in order of course. At the same time, I would like to inform the members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy that the meeting of this Committee is immediately continuing in the large lounge on the first floor. Thank you very much.
