ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members! Please take your seats. Once again, I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Dear Members and Members! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Bojan Kontic, mag. Zoran Gračner for the afternoon part of the session, Andrej Gerenčer for the afternoon part of the session, Jože Tanko, Roman Jakič for the beginning of the session, Leopold Kremjar from 16:00 p.m. on, Jožef Špindler from 11.00 p.m. on, Janez Podobnik for the beginning and for the afternoon part of the session, Andrej Fabjan, mag. Janez Kramberger, Dorian Marshič, Mario Gasparini, mag. Janez Petty Officer. I ask Members and Members to insert cards because we will determine the presence in the Chamber. We're picking up the presence in the hall! I find there are 56 Members and Members present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them very much. Today's continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the closed 14th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on free legal assistance. Then we will move on to the remaining points in order. I give my word to Mr. Gerencher. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. On behalf of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, I propose to the National Assembly that today, at 2.30 p.m., we begin the first examination of the Road Transport Act. Here's the thing. We should have adopted this law by the end of last year. At least this was promised in Brussels, although they wrote a second date in the programme. They then announced that this law was to be adopted by the end of April, which was not to be done, and that the delegation was to arrive in Slovenia at the end of this month or at the beginning of June and should report on how far we are in preparation for the conclusion of Chapter 9 for the European Union. The government is asking for a first hearing today to be concluded so that the representative of the European Union can be told that the National Assembly has completed or has completed its first reading and that by the end of this half-year, the law will also be adopted. In this respect, I would ask, Mr Vice-President, if this procedural proposal were to be accepted with understanding and also made clear by the Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u4	Before making a decision, I would like to take a 10-minute recess on behalf of the group to see if this law is really ready for this point so that we can continue with it at 2.30 p.m. And of course also for some other things to see what can be done today and tomorrow, with all the proposals that rained yesterday, and as I know, there are others today and they are urgent and that we do it all together. I suggest you suggest to the president that we meet in 10 minutes and really do this. Because otherwise, we may not be able to do anything until the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u5	The president has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u6	I suggest we get the colleges together. At that point, let me just say one thing. When the college has repeatedly consulted on how to draw up a final proposal for the agenda and ask the government about the priorities of law-making, at least I have come to realize that the only way to force the government that is proposing most of the laws is to give priority to things to begin with, to deal with the points in order. We can make exceptions today, but if we want to force the government, the majority of the laws' proponent, to tell us which are the priorities and priorities, then we have to stick to the agenda. This is good because of order in the house as a result of the government's responsibility to tell each month which laws are necessary for the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. So I understand there's a brief college meeting coming up. I'm taking 15 minutes off. We'll continue the meeting at 10:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, please let us take our seats. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Please place your cards. 62 Members and Members are present. So the assembly can continue the work. The President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the college, we agreed unanimously on the order of treatment of the points at today's and tomorrow's meeting. We'll finish the 14th agenda, continue with the 15th and 18th. If there is any time left, we will proceed with the points on the agenda. I'm sure we'll start tomorrow at 10 a.m. with 27th and 28th. However, it is up to the activities of the Infrastructure Committee whether we will consider paragraph 6 tomorrow. Secondly, I think it will be a bit more orderly because at the next meeting of the National Assembly we will be much more in line with the adopted agenda. This will also force the government, as the proponent of most laws, to tell the national assembly before the adoption of the agenda which laws are essential, and we will put them first in the debate. Those laws, which will not be dealt with, will be transferred to the next meeting. This will safeguard some order in the National Assembly and, last but not least, the responsibility and reputation of this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much. We'll continue with 14. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THAT'S WITH FREE LEGAL ASSISTANCE LEGAL LEGISLATION LEGAL ASSISTANCE, OTHER READING . As I have already announced, we are considering amendments in the second reading. First, we consider the 31st article, where we have three amendments. Please take into account the review of 23.5.2001. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to the vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There's 61, 38 for, no one against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. Attending 73, 37 for, no one against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We vote on the third amendment. There's 63, 35 for, no one against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. 63 Members and Members present, for 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We move on to the 32nd paragraph, where we have three amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendments. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present for 33, against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present, 40 for, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We vote on the third amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 35, against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on Article 32 as a whole. 61 Members and Members present, 37 for, against none. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We move on to Article 33, where we have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the first amendment. 62 Members and Members present, for 39, against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. 62 Members and Members present, for 38, against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on Article 33 as a whole. 62 Members and Members present, 35 for, against none. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 33 has been adopted. We move on to Article 34 with two amendments. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm concluding. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 34's in, no one's in. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. 62 Members and Members are present. 35's in, no one's in. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 34 as a whole! 62 Members and Members are present. 37's in, no one's in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 34 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 37. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting on the first amendment. 62 Members and Members are present. 36 is in, 1 is in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 37 as a whole. 62 Members and Members are present. 31 is in, against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 39. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting on the first amendment. 62 Members and Members are present. Thirty-three's in, no one's in. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Article 39 as a whole. We're voting! 62 Members and Members are present. 36's in, no one's in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 41. An amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting on the amendment. There are 62 Members and Members present for 33, against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 41 as a whole. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, for 38, for 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] The article was adopted. We're moving on to Article 42. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude and vote on the amendment. There are 62 Members and Members present, for 34, for 1. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 42 as a whole. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 27, for 1. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against one.]] The article was adopted. We move on to Article 43, two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude and vote on the first amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present, 33 to 1. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present for 33, against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on the whole article. There are 60 Members present, for 32, for 1. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against one.]] The Article was fully adopted. We move on to Article 47, one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude and vote on the amendment. 61 Members and Members are present, 32 for, against none. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on Article 47 as a whole. 61 Members and Members are present. 27's in, no one's in. [[The vote was 27.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 47 has been adopted. We move on to Article 52, one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the amendment. 61 Members and Members are present. 34's in, no one's in. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. 61 Members and Members are present. 31 is in, against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 53. First, the amendment to the amendment. Second time, amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting on an amendment to the amendment. 61 Members and Members are present. 31 is in, against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on amendment number two. 61 Members and Members are present. 31 is in, against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. 61 Members and Members are present. 31 is in, against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 53 has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, for 32, against no one. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the title of the law. 61 Members and Members present, for 37, against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. This brings us to the third reading of the bill. I note that a number of amendments have been tabled, so please qualified applicants if they wish to table an amendment in the third reading. I'm correcting myself - the amendments were adopted in a second reading. [[They don't want to.]] I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's how we ended this part. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? We find that it is not, so we are moving on to a decision on the law as a whole. We are voting on the whole law. 61 Members and Members present, 38 for, against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Service, Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a representative of the government, Secretary of State Hinko Jenull, a word? [[He does.]] Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u11	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The characteristics of the Slovenian judiciary are not only large backlogs that reach 533,000 cases, of which about 180,000 are more important cases, but the characteristic of the Slovenian judiciary is also the uneven distribution of these backlogs across the courts. Another feature of the Slovenian judiciary is the large number of judges per capita compared to many European countries. However, the third feature, which relates to judicial legislation, is the very limited mobility of judges in terms of transfers between courts. Restricted mobility, which is now, according to the Court's own assessment, more limited than required by the protection of the judge's independence. When the mutual assistance projects of one court appeared to the other to remedy the backlogs, such assistance was only one of the elements or components of other programmes, which included other measures at the time, it was found that such aid could not be implemented to a greater extent precisely because of the legal arrangements mentioned above. It has also been found that, because there is no legal basis, it is not possible for judges wishing to participate in these projects to allocate the funds made possible by the amended Article 60 of the Law on Courts and this year's budget of approximately 50 million tolars. With the proposed amendments, the Government wishes to make it possible to implement programmes to remedy delays in the courts in the part where these delays will be eliminated by mutual assistance, so that the judge of one court will be allocated to another court. It therefore proposes to amend the provisions of Article 69 of the Law on Judicial Service, following a rapid procedure, in order to extend the possibility of assigning a judge to another court, irrespective of the level of the court at which the judge works, of course, but always only in the case of a judge's consent. To extend the forms of such allocation regarding time, which now, under the proposed law, allows the judge to work in part in his own court and partly in another court, thus reducing the effect that an increase in the backlog in his home court would result. The Government further proposes to regulate the way files are allocated in such cases, so that it is absolutely clear that the principle of a legal judge must also apply in these cases. Finally, the Government proposes to pay the statutory allowance to the judges involved in the abolition of the arrears. This is considered appropriate because these judges voluntarily waive their constitutional and legal right to inviolability and take over work on older outstanding cases, generally more difficult, as a rule with greater burdens on the changing working environment and the work area. This project, which we want to support by law - this is a project called Hercules - is also mentioned in some of the documents that we have submitted to the European Union in terms of efforts to ensure political conditions for accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Please! The Chairman of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u13	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! As explained in the opening presentation by the Secretary of State, it is in fact a matter of amendment to one article itself. However, I must say that the Committee has dedicated this amendment to a three-fold debate. All together, I kind of calculated it over my thumb, and the debate on these changes lasted six hours. Which means that we have been thoroughly taught about the matter, and we have debated it. Besides, I think we've come up with a better proposal than originally planned. I must say that the committee was told by the proposer that the government had first considered a broader amendment to the Law on Judicial Service, which, according to the Council of Justice and the Slovenian Judicial Society, was not appropriate. Therefore, they decided to withdraw this law and replace it by amending the law in just one point. And that's the part where we're supposed to give the legal basis for the Hercules programme. The proposed solution, as originally proposed, has come under criticism, both by our secretariat, the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Council, as well as by the criticism of the Council of Justice and, of course, by the criticism of the judiciary. To all three criticisms and, of course, to these, the criticisms of Members and Members of the Committee also joined, it was common that the constitutional correctness of the solution proposed was questioned. This was because the Council of Justice was supposed to set out the criteria by which we would distribute, so to speak, this supplement, which should have gone to the judges because they had decided to help in other courts. As the matter went as I said, then the motioner was under the weight of our arguments and the weight of the arguments of the judicial council, the judiciary, our secretariat changed this provision and even somehow we found that he added some quality supplement because he demanded or this supplement to be checked in some way the funds used and, of course, also the results of this programme. The debates that have been taking place in all three of the continuations, so to speak, of these points on the Committee, have raised the issue of the responsibility of the judiciary for these lags. Opinions were expressed and I think they have received the necessary majority support that this cannot be the only step towards overcoming these judicial setbacks, not because the reasons are probably different. It can't just be a reason to secure some reallocations with a little more money and thus come to a reduction of these judicial backlogs, which they are reading to us, and this must be said frankly, even in Brussels. At the end of, in fact, when we arrived together, the question of the different interpretations of this new amendment by the Government was raised, whether, when this supplement was to be determined, it should also take into account working time, in short, whether this supplement should go to the full salary that a judge receives or only to the salary that goes with all the allowances, but without an increased percentage for the working time. And because the general discussion was focused in this direction, so that it would in some way be unacceptable, because this is not done in other spheres of public life, so in other parts of the public service does not do so, we have drafted an amendment. The Committee also adopted an additional decision resulting from the discussions that this should be the first step and that the additional decision, very simply stated, should be that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court should set up a joint expert group to examine and prepare an analysis of the reasons for the delay and to examine the material and procedural rules that can be used chicaneously and, of course, to postpone the hearings and to accumulate cases in the courts. Therefore, on behalf of the members of the Committee, I propose that you now support the proposed version of the amended law, together with the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The following have already been signed up: Dušan Vukko, LDS, Majda Zupan, Nova Slovenija, Rudolf Petan, Social Democrats Slovenia, Miran Potrč, United List of Social Democrats, and Sašo Peca, Slovenian National Party. The others can still sign up. The word is Dusan Vukko, LDS representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u15	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In the process of the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, the issue of judicial backlogs has proved to be among the major obstacles. We are in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and will continue to support all those projects and programmes that will contribute to reducing judicial backlogs and thus enable the exercise of constitutional rights, the right to a trial within a reasonable time. Based on this fundamental definition or objective pursued in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will also support the proposed amendment to the Judicial Service Act. In the LDS Group, we are aware of the seriousness and scope of the problem of judicial backlog. We estimate that there are more causes for judicial backlogs and that they are both objective and subjective. Eliminating the causes takes time, so we can't go blind to take our flights overnight. The proposed amendment and supplementation of the Judicial Service Act does not address the causes of judicial backlogs, but attempts, only rationally and effectively, to remedy the consequences, are said to be backlogs. The new law is just a fraction of the mosaic that we will have to work forward to build. Members and Members of the LDS Group have endeavoured from the outset to adopt and enforce the amendments to the law as soon as possible, drawing attention to the secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters, as well as to the views of the Judicial Council and the society of Slovenian judges. Our warnings, which were sent in order to eliminate marital non-compliance and to clarify the legal definition, were misunderstood, since the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is against the operationalization of the Hercules project. The latter has been demonstrated by the submission of amendments to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with which the government or the Ministry of the Interior has accepted our comments and warnings. Members and Members of the LDS Group will support the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to the Government's amendment to Article 1 as well as the proposal for an additional decision proposed by the competent committee to the State Assembly for admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Majda Zupan, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Government Representative, House of Respect! I would like to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the Law amending the Law on the Judicial Service, which in its original version contains only three articles. We adopt the law quickly, which is understandable for at least two reasons. Firstly, a major obstacle to Slovenia's integration into the European Union is the issue of judicial backlog. At the end of 2000, 533,000 outstanding cases remained. However, legal backlogs, where land and enforcement are not counted, are estimated at around 93,000 according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. All of this affects the provision of the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time. And a second time. Although it is true that the backlogs have been declining for the third year, the fact remains that natural and legal persons in Slovenia still lack effective judicial protection due to complex and, in particular, long-term proceedings. This is because the backlog comes from 1994 to 1997 and the result is a necessary but incorrect reform. With the proposed amendments, the proposer seeks to achieve a more rational, faster and more efficient judiciary and, in particular, to resolve judicial backlogs in such a way as to adapt the internal organisation and functioning of the judiciary to the greater and more difficult needs of citizens and other entities for judicial protection, and to the more effective work of the judges, while fully maintaining the constitutional principle of the division of power The debate between Members of the Home Committee, despite the short changes proposed, was temperamental, at times hot, which shows that Members are aware of the more serious problems and that we do not want to repeat mistakes from the past, when there was a great time period in which the adoption of the Law on the Judiciary and the Law on the Judicial Service was accompanied by a number of major errors due to the desire to adapt the judiciary to modern, democratic principles as soon as possible. To a large extent, however, the principle of a rational, swift and effective judiciary was neglected. The fact is that citizens and citizens are critical to the judiciary and that the signing of the petitions to which we witness the withdrawal of a permanent term of office to judges is not surprising. In particular, a great deal of controversy has been raised over whether this programme for the correction of arrears, as the applicant calls it, includes the Hercules project and what will be the reward for the judges involved. The amendment of the law is intended to allow for the temporary redeployment of judges, in particular a higher level to a lower court, some would exclusively resolve backlogs. The proposer considers that some 20 judges would be involved in the work of the compensation programme, which must be further rewarded for this work. Part of the programme for the correction of backlogs is therefore the Hercules project, for which 50 million are earmarked in the 2001 budget. In doing so, there has been a lot of deliberation on the part of the proposed amendments to the law, and in the case of Members, fear that the Hercules project does not solve the problem of judicial backlogs, but is only about raising the salaries of judges, especially since the pay system is completely broken within the judiciary, and that there is a great difference between judges. It is clear to us that this project will not be able to solve all the backlogs completely, but we are confident that the Slovenian judiciary will have to achieve greater efficiency, especially since we are at the top of the ranking by number of judges per population. It will also be necessary to take legislation in the field of substantive and procedural law back into conflict and to seek further solutions. The Ombudsman also notes in his 2000 report that the biggest problem is still lagging behind, as despite the efforts of the courts they are still dealing with a large number of outstanding cases. Moreover, it notes that the backlog is also due to the work of judges, since some judges are too busy and their decision-making is too poor. The Hercules project, named after the hero of Greek mythology, is synonymous with something enormous and powerful, so it is only a fraction of the lag program and after all has become a tiny and rickety little one. He doesn't seem to have a lot of enthusiasm for the judges. We can hope that it will not happen like the hero in the story, when there was a lot of jealousy around him at the beginning, and the last thing left was smoke and ashes on the burning ground. Nevertheless, courage prevailed in the story. And despite all the concerns we have regarding these changes, Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Rudolf Petan, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the situation of the judiciary as an independent branch of government - that this area is not regulated, that it is critical in some segments. I would mention only one area, this is the area of labour legislation that requires very rapid action, because the search for justice in this area with a time component, when time is running, can be meaningless, the company can also go bankrupt, and all of this is essentially in vain. There are big backlogs, things are getting old, suspects have or are getting time to flee the country, and the trend of backlogs is substantially, I say, not improving significantly and is not shrinking. In the process of integrating our country into the European Union, this particular area is becoming a stumbling block, and there has been some progress in closing the areas and the source or cause of criticism at home and at the European Union. The situation is not critical because of Europe, but mainly because of us. The judicial branch is a segment of the government of our country or a service for our citizens or a service for our taxpayers. The problem of backlogs has been lingering for years and things that should have received a judicial epilogue are obsolete. That is, of course, unacceptable. However, judicial protection within a reasonable time is a fundamental human right. The proposal before us, called Hercules, is probably one of the possible. There are no other proposals at this time. In the SDS, we believe that we may be able to find a different way to remedy judicial backlogs, perhaps even a better one, perhaps a different approach. However, this is the only proposal currently before us, which is in the form of marriage, and that is why we support it in the Group of Members. In support of this law, statistics on sentences handed down or punishments are also used, or we are looking at these numbers in any way. In fact, the numbers are quite interesting. In 1991, about 10,000 judgments were handed down, about 4,000 in 1996, and 6,000 in 1999. So, on the basis of this statistics, we can ask ourselves whether Slovenians from 1991 to 1996 have become more than twice as decent as we were to break more than twice the laws, or whether we were two and a half times less delinquent than in 1991. Then again from 1996 to 1999, whether we became more delinquent again, more problematic, whether we really broke the laws for half the time or there is something else. The question is whether the number of penalties imposed depends on money or on anything else. We wouldn't go into analysis of this, the data is eloquent enough. Everyone can ask their own question, they can look from their point of view. But it is the same for all of us that all of this says that we must act and do so immediately. Therefore, in the SDS, we support this proposal, as well as any possible changes that would go towards reducing judicial backlogs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by Miran Potrč on behalf of the group of Members of the Joint List.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! According to the opinion of fellow Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the proposed law is a significant case that shows the difficulty of the situation in which this national assembly is held many times. Why? It is generally known that delays in the judiciary are extremely large, although they are gradually decreasing slightly, but the pace of falling back in recent years is such that it would take a decade or more to reach the normal time frame for dealing with judicial cases. For this reason, there is also an understandable criticism of the public, extremely large and with a finger also points to MPs and MPs of the National Assembly, let us or let us not give or give, when we will or will not settle certain matters. Another feature that I would like to mention is the fact that we are touching the third branches of power in this area, the judiciary for which we all want to be stable, that it is independent, that it is professional, that it works exclusively and only by law, that it does not receive very frequent changes. Since whatever is happening in this area has a negative rather than a positive impact, which is what we find today also with the reforms that we have carried out and which were before this national assembly - I have participated with them - the Member of Parliament was placed in a very similar manner today. We're not happy, but we have to accept that something will be done. Third, our position. There's no way we can make our own laws. We are the prisoners of the proposals we have. We can improve them a little bit or less, in the end, before we accept them - especially if they are put in quickly - in some social climate or not. I would like to say that, according to the belief of the United List of Social Democrats, this law is the one which must be adopted in a proper manner, taking into account these criteria and the difficult situation, not in the belief that it is good or that it is ideal or that it solves the problems of falling behind in the justice system. However, if we did not accept it and would not contribute to at least some minority, for example, correcting it, we would be justified by the judges and the judiciary, by the public and perhaps by anyone else accused of not helping to solve one of the very important problems of the enforcement of the rule of law, that is the effective legal protection of citizens and citizens. Why, I would say, I think we have arguments for such a thought, which means support, but at the same time it is very - I am not hiding anything - very critical to the way in which the law was prepared and to solve problems in full. We believe that, even in this law - I hope to say so - the explanations of the law we have received are the reasons for the adoption of the law - the Ministry and the third branch of government, which I know here must be involved, have not presented the fundamental problems and have not taken advantage of the opportunity to make clear where the fundamental problems are, to clearly assess the measures already taken, because many have been taken and some have given at least initial results, because otherwise the trend of increasing backlogs would continue to grow, but no, it has stopped and has stopped slowly for the last two years despite all the decline, nor has it clearly foreseen the new other serious systemic measures that would be necessary, but not only those that are not in fact systemic, but it is just some kind of extinguishing of fire. The explanation we received here from the proponents was very egregious. It went from the assumption that this is actually the case and that we must accept it, because it is known to everyone that no one will be able to ask any question to accept the resolution of judicial backlogs, which are such a major problem. Why do I hope to claim that this is possible, I would say, a critical assessment of the situation? See, the government, the Ministry of Justice has prepared, last September, I say, a sufficiently corrective, concrete review of the problems of resolution of judicial backlogs, as well as concrete proposals for measures that would be necessary to resolve systemic backlogs. Among these measures, the preparation also includes an amendment to the Judicial Service Act, which is intended to simplify and facilitate the deployment and allocation of judges among others. Today, the Secretary of State has said that this law is necessary because we have not sufficiently addressed the issue of simplified, facilitated, more rational distribution and allocation of judges in the Judicial Service Act, I can say that any reallocation in the event that the fate of individual courts is so very different that the pace of the resolution of judicial cases is so uneven, Dacx must be intervened in this way. Instead of going into the immediate preparation of this or at least a clear warning of when it will be made on 9 March, on the basis of an agreement between the third branch of government - I explicitly stress, I do not blame only the Ministry - and the ministries have come up with a proposal that, through, I would say, solves this problem in one way or another. I think that it is bad that this indicates that there is sufficient readiness for a comprehensive assessment and for a sufficiently correct and thorough action in this area there is nowhere to be found and why - I do not hope to give it to myself, or else I give it to myself - it means too little willingness to look at my own problems and also to organise myself within the judicial branch of the government to deal with these problems more effectively. They are also probably aware in this branch of power that every intervention in it is for the one who wants to be corrected, very difficult and responsible, and in this way some status quo is retained, which is not the best. I think it is possible to get arguments for a critical assessment in the fact that the original government's material has not provided sufficient clarity as to what the objectives are and what we will achieve with them. It was not until on the basis of the petty or the demands of us, Members and Members of the home labour force, it was later found that it would likely be possible to use these envisaged means to redeploy around 20 judges, that it could be counted that each of these 200 more difficult judicial files in the course of one year would be possible to expect that this would be an annual circus of 4,000 cases, that the focus is mainly on the economic judiciary, because there are large backlogs, and that this would be an important contribution to the correction of backlogs at least in the economic courts and in the courts in Ljubljana, where it is the largest. We didn't know that before. We've been getting all this information for a while that it might be five judges, so we don't know exactly, or anything like that. I mean, it's a task that needs to be approached in another way. Third. The Ministry and the third branch of power, the judiciary, irrespective of the reasons on which the stand is to blame, have not drawn up coordinated solutions in doing so, but it was a discussion whether it was right to make the law require that the Council of Justice determine any additional remuneration, or whether it should be the content of the law. Even at this point, things have not turned out to be well - prepared. Finally, I say, by working in the home work body with the readiness of all, and sometimes even with any misunderstanding, we have managed to achieve that at least we know what the clear objective of this law is, what we can expect from it, and on this basis we will also be able to control whether it will really produce these effects, and demand that a concrete programme be drawn up. I myself expect this programme to be submitted as soon as possible, because practically in the Ministry, Mr Jenull, there is this programme, and it is right that we too will get it, and that in due time the system solutions that will in due course make for unnecessary resolution as envisaged in this project will allow a gradual, in a few years, resolution of backlogs and a normal time to resolve cases before the courts and exercise the right to the judicial protection of our citizens and citizens. In the parliamentary group, we expect that this will be done in due course, that we will be more involved with the reform of the system of judicial law, the law on judicial service, and also procedural laws and more, to resolve these issues, that justice as a third branch of government will be more involved in this and that we will be more involved in this way, but not through some solutions that may be offered to the public in general, but that, in my opinion, are not systematically appropriate, we will find the way in which, in due course of the night, several years, because that is certainly not possible, such a system and the extent of work that will also lead to the timely resolution or the reasonableness of the resolution of judicial disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Saša Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u23	Your Honors are here! Unlike the government representative and his introductory explanation, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that the only denominator of the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia is inefficiency. This inefficiency is the only thing the judiciary is guilty of, and the Slovenian government is to blame. The blame is on the Slovenian government in that form or at the moment when it offers to the national assembly, let's say, "bluff" laws. One of these laws, which is somehow praised by everyone today, and you say is a mandatory necessity, will not be drawn to itself by anything that could not be done without this law in this country. I will not talk in general about the judiciary, I will not delay and I will not waste your precious time, but I would like to refer to these three articles, which we are considering today, which are intended to promote the Hercules programme - a programme of a beautiful name, a programme that will have no effects, as, unfortunately, there is no effect on any programme emanating from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended only to throw sand in the eyes of this national assembly and - which is worse - to the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. Okay, that's the policy you've chosen. I sincerely hope it will be short-term. But if I go back to the changes and additions to the law. If a citizen, a customer of any kind, fails to settle any service, such as his or her debt, he or she is punished for it. However, the Slovenian government wants to tell us by law that we will only reward the judiciary for its lag because it is ineffective. And he's trying in a way, let's say, called Hercules, just filling himself up with so much of the judges' salary to do better. Because they're late. A common citizen pays interest. He's paying for his time. No! No! But the Slovenian government has decided that we will start segmenting this society of 2 million Slovenians. We warned you about that a while ago. And a saying or a river that comes from ancient Greece is good enough to bring about democracy through the bourgeoisie; hence, somehow people are starting to disintegrate. This is the stage in which we are in Slovenia today, where the Slovenian government is legally trying to create the multiplicity of this country, which will be based solely on a material basis. Later on for bourgeoisie, dear ladies and gentlemen, who accept, support this law, a dictatorship will come. It all turns around later. These are normal processes, but abnormal processes within as short a time as they are in our country. We will not support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian National Party because we think it is a shame. To reward those who are late, to reward those who do not meet their obligations, please, if this is a measure by which you think, say, to increase the efficiency of the Slovenian judiciary, you are wrong. We have prepared an amendment in the Slovenian National Party. An amendment that is contrary to certain acts in our country. We don't believe he'll be accepted. However, we have opened up a new chapter on constitutional changes. I sincerely hope that at least some Members will support us in these changes. This is to destroy or destroy the life - style of judges. This is currently the most protected species - let's say in nicknames, once again, in the nicknames "lives" in our country. If we want to make the Slovenian judiciary effective in our country, we must not encourage delays, which we are now doing. No! No! For inefficiency, it must be punishable. Such a penalty as is paid by a national of that State or by a national of the Republic of Slovenia, unless he simply fines the taxes prescribed by that same Government. In the Slovenian National Party, we object to the selection of citizens, and even more so to the treatment of laws, on behalf only and on behalf of the nominee, that is to say that there is some work to be done in this country. Such is the purpose of this, except that time is running out and that it is tried through influential and leading media to present this government as something good. Sorry, gentlemen, in our opinion, you picked the wrong cards. We won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you. The text is by Peter Levič on behalf of the SMS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This law, the law on judicial service, is passed in a swift manner. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that it is justified because this is one of the few exceptions to the flood of laws that we adopt in a fast procedure. In the Young Slovenia Party, we also believe that we can agree on this law. This law provides a solution to the pressing issue of judicial backlogs, and this is most important. It's less important who's going to set the reward for the job. Here we would suggest or agree that the first solution is that the law lays down criteria for rewards to exceed the expected scope of work. So don't let the Council of Justice decide a case that doesn't have any substantive support in marriage. As I have already mentioned, it seems important to us that, in particular, we are actively involved in the resolution of the problems in the judiciary, particularly the backlogs. We hope and we are sure that the Hercules project will work. We also hope that this project will not stop. In our view, it is necessary to visit the measures and to follow foreign models and to appoint a list of judges for swift interventions or flying brigades of judges, as they are done in the Netherlands, for example. However, as regards the award of judges who will try to solve the accumulated judicial backlogs, we believe that it will be necessary to think carefully about the criteria for rewards, since in our view we must pursue not only the quality of legal work but also quality. We are aware that Slovenia can get quite a repugnant promotion in the European Court of Human Rights due to delays in the judiciary and elsewhere. The first cases are already before the said court. That is why we will support the law in the Young Slovenia Party without any doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you. Does he wish to present his opinion to any other parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Roman Jakič applied in writing. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group, it has already been said, but of course there is something for us in the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, but if I may speak for myself, I am the one who in some way opposes this law, and I, of course, have wished for one part of the excruciating debate already on the working body where I hosted as a substitute Member, but with the strict intention of actually discussing the proposed law on judicial service or the additions of this law. See, the Ombudsman in his report makes a very large chapter II essentially a reference to judicial proceedings and, of course, tells us all that we already know in this National Assembly - that the Slovenian Courts in 2000 have concluded with 533.225 outstanding cases; that the Court statistics say that this reduction is 5.5% compared to the previous year; that the State is taking various measures, including that we have adopted in this National Assembly a comprehensive amendment to the Law of the Courts, which was intended to speed up judicial proceedings and to ensure better control when the party considers that the Court does not take the case for a long time. I must say that in this project, I also see the decision of this national assembly to amend the legislation when we were actually able to ensure an out-of-court settlement in this country, which in some ways has also burdened the courts. My personal view is that it is too small for people to understand all these games and all these fighting between us because they are waiting and waiting, and of course this hand is really unreasonable. Likewise, most people do not understand that the legal arrangements for disciplinary responsibility and disciplinary proceedings against a judge are poorly regulated. Of course, I am aware of the problem that from the point of view of the representative of the legislative body, I am interfering with the independence of the authorities when I discuss this. However, I do not want Members and Members not to discuss the law that has been tabled precisely because someone would think that we are interfering with the judiciary and that this is wrong. I think that the debate must be broad and that pure wine must be poured above all. Personally, I must say that I was misled at the outset, because from the very beginning, this law has been presented to me as essential for the legal arrangements for assigning judges to other courts. This is how I was originally presented, if that is the reason why judges were unable to go through Slovenia and solve judicial backlogs, and that is why this change took place. After a detailed reading of this, I have found that the already existing Article 69 of the Judicial Service Act allows judges to be assigned, to perform judicial service in other courts, where this is necessary because of the exceptional increase in the work of that court or for other reasons which have caused an exceptional backlog in the work of that court. So the argument that some of those who advocated this law fell out of my hands. The argument of award. Then we were hostages of the budget. The hostages of the 50 million we have provided in the budget for the Hercules project. This was an argument, since the funds are provided, but now they need to be used. However, we will use them in such a way that, of course, we will increase wages to stimulate, I will not say that we will stimulate judges to assist other judges in removing the backlog. Another awkward argument, and we wanted to be held hostage by the MPs, was the West's argument. The European Union expects us to make up for the backlog. I couldn't agree more. The backlogs are a problem, the numbers show 533,000 and some outstanding issues. But this marriage, in my personal opinion, doesn't solve it. Of course, this law saves something else. I pulled the parallels on my mother's work body with the schoolchildren. It's just a memory or a reminder to all of you when we're talking about some stimulation. Let me tell you the ratio, the comparison of wages between the two segments. The judge of the District Court, the lowest salary, of course education and all is the same - 5 years of work, name of mentor, legal exam, university high education and so on. The judge of the District Court, his lowest salary is 383,399, the lowest professor 232,000. The highest salary of the District Court Judge 578,000, the highest salary of Professor 331,000. We're talking about pay comparisons. I think that's gross pay. Sure. He's paying gross. Comparison of wages on 1.1.2001. The starting point of pay is 48,317. [[The feedback from the bench.]] I'm sorry. I'll provide you with a gross salary. [[...]] I want to tell you that I do not understand in the debate we have in this country, that there are now some new models looking for ways to stimulate or increase wage policy. The third argument, which was related to the European Union, was, and this has been used very shamefully, even though Western Europe knows the struggle against backlogs in the way of Hercules, among other things - listen now, the dictatorship was - among other things, Italy and the Netherlands are taking such a project. The diction is misleading again. Only Italy and the Netherlands have such a project. The important difference is that in Italy there are retired judges and they get the prize of the writing they save, my dears. And here we are saying that the judge who decides is going to be the judge-general who decides to get a 20% higher salary. A judge in Italy, a retired judge in Italy, takes the case in such a way that he knows when he closes his story with the file, he will get 250 thousand lire - 250 thousand lire - money for the file he made. So, of course, this argument fell to me. I have to say that I was very angry - this has also been seen from that debate on the parental body - because I had the feeling that someone as an MEP has me as a fool to sell me the story of Hekules, some big thing that we invented together in the context of the EU, and that now whoever raises a voice against this amendment of this law will oppose the Hercules project or the compensation project. Of course, I'm protesting it here too. I believe that the government and the ministry have much more or other instruments available to save these backlogs. Thinking in the direction of an Italian model does not occur to anyone, it is said, to call. It is clear that legislation needs to be adapted. Nor does it occur to anyone at the Ministry to submit to the procedure an amendment to the Administrative Procedure Act, where all of us plus all the judicial branches of government, and especially the people waiting, do not understand that there are five instances of administrative proceedings. Why don't you draw a parallel with Europe here and see that there is no country in Europe where there would be five instances of administrative proceedings. She's not here! Look, it's about employment. The Ombudsman on page 35 says: "At the end of November 2000, only 52 of the 66 systematic courts were held in the District Court in Ljubljana. Since there were five judges on maternity leave, actual employment was less than 70%. ” Then someone should answer why this industry is holding up the young frame to come. Volunteers, volunteers, those who conscientiously renounce payment, volunteers wait for entry between five and seven years. However, those who want to be paid as trainees wait for up to ten years in this country to become trainees, to have the opportunity to become judges and to help resolve issues related to backlogs. Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not come with a solution that in some way would try to encourage the greatest possible employment, not the greatest employment, but at least to complement the vacancies that the courts have? And, of course, now I'm done. Once again, I say that by adopting this law, we are not dealing with the issue of remedying judicial backlogs. My personal opinion is - and here I risk what I have done, risking the wrath of the judicial branch of power - I believe that this law saves the material position of judges, and of course in the spirit of seeking a general consensus around the law, if you want, on the ratio of wages in the public sector is wrong and not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u28	Please, replica, Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Otherwise, this will not be a critical replica of Mr Jakič's performance, but an extremely positive criticism. All I can say is, finally! Finally, you have somehow come to realize that in the judicial system as an independent branch of government, everything has not been in order for a long time. Of course, I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Pečet, and all the others who have spoken critically about this subject. Indeed, I myself, for example, have spoken several times about these matters in the previous mandate and, among other things, have taken a last resort, where I have stated that I will not vote in favour of the approval of judges with a permanent mandate or will not confirm them at all until the key issues in this sector are resolved. Of course, then my colleague Lavrinc has been very critical of me if this is not a suitable measure. I am aware of this, but it was some measure in some of my difficulties, some force, when I simply saw that I could have a different effect on the matter; I wanted to point out the unregulated things in this area. At that time, it was also clear to me that the judicial branch of power was entirely independent and that no one should be involved in its work. I have already said what is absolutely clear, and it must be clear to us all that we, as Members and Parliament, should not interfere with their acts or their judgments as such, in the process of their work. But who will tell them how they will do and what they will do or at least how they will do, according to which principles, by which rules; this is certainly the task of Parliament and of governments to prepare appropriate solutions in this area. In short, thank you, my fellow Members, for starting to think this way, and I hope that, on the basis of such common thinking, there will be some kind of common consensus in this National Assembly. I'm sure I'll support all the clever suggestions you'll make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you. That wasn't exactly the replica. The texts have the following Members: Maximilian Lavrinc, Alojz Sok, by being, of course, limited to five minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. I would start more for a joke than for real - a permanent term should be abolished for judges and salaries reduced and, of course, thrown completely under the influence of the Presidents of the courts, and he was given the appropriate powers to do so. Then what's it gonna be? Then it will be so that the judges will judge the matters they want - no, the ones they will be asked to judge. I will now tell you a few cases where, for example, my colleague's ruling, then the Member's, then the director of a firm, has already been judged - one year and a half before it was decided, for example, on a completely identical case - a slander case, done with the press - in my case. Then it would be like, for example, in the case of a complaint or a complaint by the prosecutor, the former prosecutor, Mr Ribnik, who has been waiting for four years in the Supreme Court, while it has already been judged - or, say, Mr Tevž - while the same Supreme Court has already ruled in the case of Türk, exactly the same circumstances. Gentlemen, these things need to be kept in mind, cold blood and above all, which I resent all the time, a systemic approach - I must say it was not even when we went on to reform the judiciary in 1994. Sam, I'm gonna say, I'd say that about that point. It is right to hear the whole voice, so also - not so, but especially such thoughts as they have now been heard, say, from Mr Jakic's debate and from Mr Kelemina's debate. Let me read a letter to the President of the Supreme Court and then, of course, to the President of the National Assembly, in which he points to madness - literally to a judicial madness - when a judge, more out of those places, east, for consideration, where the amount of 16,700 tolars is required, five is called for and two more field visits to be added. Well, this is certainly not the quality work of a judge. I know of a case where the judge, for talking to the defendant, please, who is currently in custody, has spent more than 10,000 tolars. For example, the same judge wrote poems to one of the accused. This does not indisputably come or appear to be unlike the judges. What's going on? Have we ever had a case of a bad work judge exposed to some more serious criticism or, for example, put on the road, as it would have been elsewhere? This doesn't happen of course. Therefore, I personally believe that until we reach the system that needs to be done, as we have suggested there, in that conclusion, based on some serious analysis that will cause some movement within the judicial branch of power, until then - in my opinion - we cannot reach quality solutions. It has to be admitted that backlogs are being saved. That's right. However, I fear that the backlogs are falling more due to the pressure of the public, because of the various initiatives to end the permanent mandate and because of the criticisms faced by the judicial branch of power rather than due to good organisational receptions or the like. Look, this National Assembly is getting court statistics. It's the fifth month. It's the last day. We don't have court statistics yet. This would be a good basis for a more serious discussion, for example with some other amendments to the Judicial Service Act. In my opinion, the amendment to this law is urgently needed. I'll say one more thing about the judges' salaries. The pay of good judges is bad. So rock me! But in fact, the wages of good judges are bad. Because compared to notaries, compared to lawyers, they are averages, actually. Just like we're averages, I don't know what kind of directors in big companies. But the poor judges' wages are too high. Too high! It would be interesting, say, to see how much time he spends and works as an average Slovenian judge in his job. I'm sure you'd take, not just all the sick ones, which is an understandable human reason, the obstetrics - the same. We also talked about a certain birthrate in this national assembly. But also education that runs during working hours. In Italy, for example, they run on Saturdays. Even coffees and other backlogs, which, in my opinion, no one registers, would find that these ladies and ladies, although they are working slowly, are not all, and I would stress that they will not be misunderstood, could do much more with their knowledge, which they are now conveying.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u32	Please, if you'll just finish it slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u33	I'm sorry, I overheard this scream. I forgot to check in. I'll finish. Otherwise, I'll be able to pick up some kind of replica. Why is it not considered to increase the number of professional workers? Why is there a relationship between us, that is, one professional worker and a number of judges? There are more experts abroad than one judge. Why is it not thought - in what Mr Jakič has said, I am thinking in this direction: we cannot change the constitution in order to employ retired judges additionally, but we could work as professional colleagues. In short, ways, in my opinion, for correcting the "way out" from these pressures, is certainly more. That should be enough for now. Otherwise, I may still be using the replica to add what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you. Does Ambassador Anton Partlich want to replicate or debate? [[He's not here.]] The word is Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will give Mr Lavrinc a chance to replicate, and I will tell him that madness is not only happening there, in the eastern part of Slovenia; if you ask people there, they will say that the most crazy happens in the central part of Slovenia, namely, they will show to Parliament. So I kind of understood in his implementation that there's crazy out there. So, as far as this law is concerned, our parliamentary group has said that this law will support, and I am not personally sure that this increase in the salaries of judges will also solve this acute problem in Slovenia. See if you look at the Ombudsman's report, which has already been mentioned today, in this report, it says: more judges are needed for faster justice. So if we really want to solve this case, then by increasing the reward, we will not be able to do it, but we simply have to hire more judges. In this regard, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, the representative of the Government, a question before I decide, so I will ask him a question in the end. See, the Ombudsman notes that 5,33,225 cases were pending in 2000, i.e. more than half a million pending cases, and it says here that it will take several years to resolve such a backlog. I will refer to the case in the field of labour law. Look, one of the workers who worked in a congregation waited 11 years for her right. The procedure was simple: she lost her job and for eleven years it took the trial to win in the final instance - the case before the Supreme Court - confirmed that first decision by the Court of First Instance. And the thing is, it's showing up through two big problems. First, imagine how this mother could have survived her family for eleven years without a job. And then, after eleven years, when she got this right, from the budget, of course, by the taxpayers, it went to her, I think somewhere about 25 million dollars for all that she didn't get paid in those years. The fact is that the right that is deferred is essentially denied. Well, that's an undeniable fact. I would now like to ask the Secretary when we are discussing this increase in salaries for judges, but the government still has data on the number of judges per population, given the ratio in the European Union; it is said that the average in the European Union is. I'm interested in another piece of information. What is the nature of the cases in relation to the average in the European Union - if the government has these data? Because I want to know if we really have so few judges per population. And secondly, whether the Slovenians are really complaining so much that the fate of these matters is so great. For if so, then there is something wrong: whether our rights have been violated so many times or we will have to do some research and agree that we have such a mentality that we like to argue. I would really like to have a vote before we vote to serve us with these two informations, if you have them, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Do any other Members want to discuss it? Please. Just make it a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u37	Yeah. In fact, a replica of the addition of this issue that colleague Sok has now raised. I would ask if the government would make this comparison with England in particular. England and Slovenia, because I've been tracking this information for years. I think he is very interesting and I would like to introduce him again to all Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Anton Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u39	Fortunately, we're at the end, because, as usual, I'm not going to say anything of any weight to the law. But there are things that I think must be said. With this law, I kind of feel like we're going after a Slovenian saying that "the devil eats even more nails." Maybe we think we can solve something with this. In principle - I wouldn't go down in such detail - would be entirely in the position of colleague Roman Jakić. But I have come to my attention because I fear that these delays, which we now want to solve, are truly certain and even Lavrinch's arguments, after all, are not worth hearing. And don't take them for real. But, delays, of course, in justice -- ugly stuff, everybody talked about it. But we are late in the whole country of Slovenia. We will live with this, we can happen to stimulate doctors - those who are not in private practice - to reject the backlogs in health care, because I know that people for acute or life-threatening things are assigned to them to come in one year or a few months. The delays are in the state administration. I am bitter even now writing against the fact that there must be 100 people pressing me to intervene somewhere. They even think that something can be achieved in court to get there first - because you have other cases. Now I must have ten pressures to tell the Minister of Health that they should answer for the concessions. Things that have been there for two years. Maybe that's the third minister who hasn't answered. And I'm sure this one is very active. I also see that the same moment appears in three, four places. I'm sure he's active there, too. But there are delays they've come to terms with, and they just don't answer. Or it's the arrogance of power. I wouldn't keep mentioning it. Such cases could be accepted by us not responding to the fact that there are still many of them in our various industries. And that seems like a serious threat to a country that at the age of ten finds one so far behind. If in various areas, then ergo here and then we decided to resolve in this way; neither stimulating nor talking about anything. But since I was a primary school teacher, of course I can't imagine that I would give those students who don't do their homework to pick them out and tell them to control others who don't work, so I'll give them candy, because then I'll just make sure that no one does those tasks anymore, and that it would go well. I would also agree with a lady who spoke a little poetically or satirically about the very name Hercules. I think if he didn't just live in a myth - of course he lived in a myth - but also in a myth he is now turning gravely like one fan. You know he cleaned Auggie's stables and something else. And we use it to stimulate 20 judges to make some backlogs This has nothing to do with Hercules, I'm sure, no connection. [[...]] But we might need to get dirty - which I don't mean justice or people - but those purchases that need to be cleaned are similar to what needs to be cleaned in some way. So I point out that it is not only justice that this is one tragic habit that we have either carried partly from other places, or that we are accustomed to in another regime, that no one was responsible for it, and it is simply that we are rarely answered in a timely manner. And from here it's just a consequence, because this mentality is deep inside us. Perhaps we could contribute to these setbacks even if many politicians did not complain of insults to honor when they wanted to, because they experienced so much suffering that they would die if they did not get 20 million. This has nothing to do with my colleague Lavrinc. But even if I make a joke, there's probably so many of these lawsuits. In short, I don't think the project is doomed to success. I will not vote against if, however, some people think that by doing something small to help, it is certainly not a systemic solution. But perhaps we will have to start thinking and giving news to the law on judicial service, because it seems to me that - let's say, I agree with Max that we will now say that we will withdraw life mandates, permanent mandates. What are we gonna do about it tomorrow? But it seems to me the first thing we should do is make sure that those who have large backlogs can't sit on these piles for the rest of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Patch, are you replicating? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u41	As a rule, I believe that each individual to his own limit is resourceful and, if I am, to Mr Partlich! [[...]] Mr Partljič, colleague Tone, correctly notes that delays are in all areas of development in our society and in all areas of life. But I think it's a completely wrong approach, and this national assembly could say no once and for all. That we look globally and - this law makes it possible - stimulates delays. The National Assembly with this law, which is here today, stimulates delays - the former work of judges and gives them essentially guidance on how to work in the future if they want to improve their material position. Indeed, the solution is in the amendment, which is likely to be disputed by many, in that the mandate of the judges elected to the judicial service lasts 8 years, with the work of the judge being checked every 2 years. In short, there will be a moment in the performance of this function, where accounts need to be placed, where efficiency needs to be demonstrated and where results need to be shown. Do not stimulate, say, delays and inefficiency! Today, the National Assembly should adopt a decision, in our opinion, which would touch on the mandate of judges and which touches on the verification of work. This, in our view, would stimulate and reduce delays within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia. Certainly not with the proposal that the National Assembly is facing today. And if that's what we all want, we have to reject this law today. We must show that we do not agree with the bluff offered to us by the competent ministry or the government of the Republic of Slovenia at this time, but let us leave who forms it. We have to throw down the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u42	Member Blaža Kavčič are you replicating or discussing?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u43	I'm in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u44	It's a debate. Then please, first, Maximilian Lavrinz, who replicates.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u45	Yes, thank you for your word. It's not like that, Mr. Pache. This law does not provide for stimulation for those who have caused these setbacks or, so to speak, for sloths. Nor is it entirely so that we can now talk about the judiciary in general, since we have courts where it works better and where it works worse. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court is one of those cases where we could "call out": "Casar is naked," as someone said yesterday, or "The blacksmith's mare is bare." Here are two, actually; the award or this allowance to a judge who will switch positions, so they also go to smaller, lower courts - that's the first. These people will be top experts, they'll show "know" and in this way, I'll say, they'll also create some standards. For example, if a capable judge makes 200 files or even 300 files a year, it will be a standard. All the others sitting around there, in that court, and for example, doing only 70 or 80, will be forced to admit: first, that they are incompetent and also, I think, the world of justice itself will have some criteria to care for and complete in such cases when it comes to determining proceedings, i.e. for proceedings against judges. I'm sure this Hercules program also has a positive charge in one piece. Unfortunately, he also has a severe negative. This, however, has been pointed out by colleagues about salaries and system failures and the principle itself. But, otherwise, I think - well, this could be done by judges if the will was in the judicial branch of power, of course, even without these supplements; that is what needs to be said. But: it's not stimulation for lazy people, it's for those who show how to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Member Blaž Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Like earlier, colleague Jakič, I would like to express my own concern about this bill, which stems from well-intentioned concern. I wish that the problem that the legislator wants to solve is solved, but I am forced by the comparison that our judicial system has health problems: for example, there is a reasonable suspicion that it is a leg fracture and that the legislator is dealing with the problem with more pedicure measures. In particular, I am concerned about the following - and I would also like to clarify the thinking of the Secretary of State. That assumption seems a little hard to buy. We say: we will solve the problem by engaging judges from one court with stimulating measures in another court. In fact, this would mean that in Slovenia we should have courts which have incompletely occupied judges. What courts are these? If this is not the case, if we do not have a free trial in Slovenia, then certain busy courts will be further rejected in their work by taking away judges who will go to work for a 20% higher salary to another court. However, their absence will, of course, result in additional backlogs. Does it say: do we have a list of open courts in Slovenia that may derogate from judges? If we don't have this list, if there aren't any judges available, I wonder what the purely logical basis of the Hercules project is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Perhaps the proposal for amendments to this law is an attempt to move towards a more rapid elimination of a truly enormous number of judicial backlogs. Of course, we can try, maybe it's also one of the directions that might just give us a chance to get a reduction in the judicial backlog in our country, but I doubt it. At least it is good that, in some way with the amendment of the committee, it is stipulated that the award is laid down in law and that this is not left to the Council of Justice. The fact is, crows don't turn off their eyes. I think that this is also one of the enchanted stories of the autonomous branch of power, and I think that there should be a lot of adjustments to this work in the future. I am convinced that in some way there should be a thorough debate on the function of a permanent mandate, not to abolish it, but rather to discuss how long the term of office in the judiciary can be achieved with a permanent mandate. In fact, I am sure that in this sense it is also necessary to obtain data from comparable European countries, when and how a permanent mandate is granted as one of the originalities of the acquisition of a single branch of power. It is probably true, however, that in the process of remedying backlogs, it should be a priority to address backlogs, as they are so-called infringements of labour law. Indeed, I am convinced that it is unacceptable that cases of 10 years of waiting for the rights of certain individuals who have lost their jobs are taking place. And there's no excuse for that. And I think, from the point of view of the Constitution, where we say that Slovenia is a legal and social state, I think that this is one of the most problematic points in the backlogs of the courts. Perhaps, though, we should also ask ourselves whether we may not look needlessly for our way in the courts. I think there is also a question of the role of out-of-court settlement, which is not yet regulated by law. In fact, all the advice, such as that of older people, has often been that it is necessary to deal with judges as few times as possible. And I think this should probably be one of the starting points. In fact, many times this is also from an individual, and some are also ensnared by the fact that they must always seek justice in a court of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you. Replicating Member Maximilian Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Now it's going to look like the entire national assembly has gone down like a coup to the judicial branch of power. And I'm up against something here, and I'm up against it. But things, I'll say, really aren't that simple. I agree with all the concerns, for example, about how they will take judges from some courts and put them in other courts, if there is already a backlog. Of course, they won't take judges in such courts. But between equal high courts, there are significant differences in the number of backlogs. You've got Ljubljana drowning in behind. And you have, I don't know, some other court that's pretty current in business, even European comparable. I'm not gonna tell you who he is. The second is that a permanent mandate is defined in the Constitution. We know that. How to reach a permanent term of office is governed by law. That's why we also said, there in that decision, even I was here discussing that the law on judicial service should be amended. Thirdly, the judges are being evaluated, and even from this assessment is progress, I'll say in pronouns, depending. These things are probably gonna have to be wiped out. At the same time you have to give Look, I'll tell you the case, so I'll show you what I'm trying to say. [[...]] If a lawyer, who is sufficiently cunning, is competent enough, respected enough and infamous in power, one who comes on behalf of the accused on the idea that the procedure may be delayed a little longer, proposes the appointment of a judge and the proceedings are under way. A lawyer in the meantime, I'm talking about a specific case, but he went skiing. In other countries it does not occur to them because there is an immediate need for a deposit to be lodged, and this deposit remains there in the country where the claim was unfounded. In short, with all kinds of receptions, things have to be prepared to be shorter. We can't just change the constitution now, say there will be no more permanent term, we will have, I don't know, every eight years, and every two years they will be assessed and so on. All that is discussed is better than any suggestion to the Secretary of State that a group, that is, an expert group, should not be just judges in it, God forbid! - let them also be retired, I will say, because they can speak unburdenedly to you, not only to the Supreme Court, which must start sweeping quickly before its own threshold - so that this expert group faces such issues, fights, does some analysis, even in cases - it is necessary to determine why this is happening. For example, here I fully agree with Mr Sok that there are crazy backlogs in the labour and social courts. Of course, we also have legislation from the South! That's where the judges are hunting, so it's only up to a high-quality judge to expect him to solve the case quickly. There's also some of our guilt, in short, it's not just black, it's not just white, it's nowhere! So, I'm going to say, take this more than a contribution to everybody wanting things to move together.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Member Valentin Pohorec will discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I would like to ask a question on which court in Slovenia there is no judicial backlog in order to transfer judges to another court from this court. I don't know about this information and I'd like an answer. Or will it not happen that, for example, the Judge from Ptuj will be transferred to Maribor to save backlogs there and from Maribor to Ptuj, because there are also backlogs on Ptuj, and both will receive 20% higher income. Whether that is not possible or not, we will still be in a greater disassociation with other branches of our public services, our other experts in the field of education, education, culture, where they already find that the imbalance in wages with judges is so great, and we will raise new questions and new demands for wage changes, after changing collective agreements or even getting threats to sentences. I believe that the reasons for these backlogs are in judicial proceedings, that something needs to be changed here; that there are, in particular, lawyers in this game who, of course, serve from this. I know the case when the lawyers, the defendant's advocates and the defendants agreed, "Today I'm putting it off, in a month you're putting it off," and that's how it goes forever and it drags on for six, seven years. An example that could be solved with all the evidence that exists! Or is it often that lawyers don't judge rather than judges? They often write about how the judgment should be heard, and many times judges follow it. I believe that it is imperative to make a full analysis, a comprehensive, thorough analysis of our judicial system, and then to come with amendments to all those laws, even if there is a need to amend the permanent mandate in order to resolve the matter. I don't know if this law will solve all the problems that exist in this area. I became after this debate, especially after Mr Roman Jakič's debate, which I am fully associated with, as well as others, a skeptic and I am thinking that I would not support the law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you. Member Gabriel Ivan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u55	Dear colleagues and colleagues! With this proposal before us, the judiciary is under the eye and the criticism of the public. One of us consulted a few different judges, tried to get a look at both sides of the medal or had a chance to hear both sides of the bell, and he was able to generate a certain opinion. Basic criticism falls mainly on the salaries of the court. And if I have this right in front of me, I think this Hercules program is an easy way to solve their salaries. That is why I will not vote for this programme at all. We believe that the judges are, indeed, a special branch of government limited to their salaries in that their function is not compatible with any other functions that give a profit, constitute a profitable activity and provide certain additional earnings. Therefore, these functional supplements also have incompatibility with their function. On the other hand, many who compare themselves with them have many opportunities for additional earnings, but they want basically the same income or salary as we call it today. I don't think judges with this system as it is have the right motivation. If it is, my question is whether it's enough. On the other hand, adequate stimulation should be expressed in material form. We believe that if I give a case that I've been thinking about, is a good judge who signs, I speak in an index, compared to 50 debates, and solves 10 in that month, or better is the one who signs 30 debates, and solves 15. These are the dilemmas that gave me the idea that there's something, I'll say, drastically wrong in our court. However, I do not believe that this proposal solves these basic problems. We know that a certain motivation and stimulation is only when they have, under the terms, a standard of how many matters are to be solved monthly. Those who get rid of more of them can gain certain positive points that benefit from the opportunity for their advancement. Others, who are more likely to say again under the terms 'in the shadow', are a little more relaxed and are not specifically sanctioned because they do not know the sanctions, at least in material terms. On the other hand, stimulation is so modest that it is not really worth mentioning. Therefore, I do not think that such a proposal as it is before us is acceptable and I will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Please. Member shall have the floor [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] It's a debate. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. When I listen to this debate, I must say that I am a little surprised by some individuals, but I would not like to replicate them. I am surprised that many, which is also part of the government coalition, do not support the government proposal here. Although it is a disputed financial means that would be not only symbolically significant and some other way of solving this problem. I'm saying it's a little different. It is necessary to put ourselves in the light of those who have elected us to this Parliament and who are seeking justice in the courts. They've been looking for justice for 5 to 10 years and because of the backlogs, they don't get to the right one. I have already discussed this on my own committee. We in this Chamber today will not solve this problem with this project. But we're going to help a lot of people who are waiting for justice. One way or another. In the previous term, I recall that there has been a lot of controversy at the expense of amending the Law on Regular Courts, where we as coalition partners have sought to give greater powers to the Presidents of the Courts. Why the Presidents of the Court? Today, the President of the Court has no right, he has no influence to ask the judge what he's doing all day. It's not like I'd have a look at the material matter that the judge has. The Presidents of the Courts should have rights and also an insight into what a judge does during working hours. As far as the judges' salaries are concerned, Mr. Kebrich. According to some other civil servants, they are quite well paid. It is true, though, that if someone works extra hard, he must also be rewarded financially. And this project will impose additional work on certain judges outside the regular working time. And that's what they have to pay for. I also ask the Government and only the Government to prepare thoroughly in this area, in particular to amend the legislation in the process. Without legislation in the process, we will not reduce the backlog in the court. And without a thorough amendment of the Law on Regular Courts, neither in the courts nor in the courts. These two laws are the basis for reducing backlogs in the courts. It is unacceptable that in ordinary civil actions, people can sue after 10 years and that the court at first instance does not decide in certain cases, because every possibility, procedural options are given to one party and the other to delay proceedings before a court. And there will be a little more to be done in this area. In order to reduce backlogs in the courts, however, it is necessary to provide a legal basis, amend procedural legislation and the law on judicial service, prepare and thoroughly amend, as well as to think, as some individuals, experts think, whether the judge has a permanent mandate or not, or when the judge should be given a permanent mandate. This is very important when a judge is given a permanent mandate. Whether the judge should be given a permanent term of office at 30 or 35 years of age, or later when he has work experience, such or otherwise. And I think that in the shortest possible time, the government needs to take a thorough look at these changes if it wants to reduce backlogs in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u58	Because no one else wants to, first of all, I will give the floor to a government representative to answer some of the questions raised and then, of course, to Members who will want to discuss them. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. It's a problem of division of power. The judiciary in Slovenia is carried out by courts and judges, it is not implemented by the legislative branch of which you are representatives, nor by the executive branch of which I am the representative here. If I would like to discuss in more detail all the issues raised and all the questions raised are justified or at least a large majority, I should also comment on the actions, proposals, initiatives, inclinations of the judiciary. I don't know if I'm allowed to do this as a representative of the government here, and I don't know if it's right to do it without judges or their representatives. I am here, I must say, in a specific situation, as is the government and the ministry in a specific situation, when it is preparing legislation concerning courts and judicial business, because it is trying to prepare these laws always, and to write together with the judges, so that the maximum possible degree of consent is achieved. However, this is not always easy to achieve and shows that it will not be possible in some cases. The question of the law on judicial service was raised here. It is true that he was put into the procedure, and it is true that he was replaced by this law that you are considering today, because the authorities of the judicial branch, the Slovenian Judicial Society, the Council of Justice, have made as many as fifteen pages of comments on that material. It seemed appropriate for the Government to reconsider this matter. I assure you that these large-scale changes, including on the issue of progress, the issue of disciplinary responsibility, the question of the powers of the presidents, are being resolved and a significant part of the text has already been written, but not everywhere in line with the judicial branch. This Parliament will have to make a final decision on these matters when it receives the law. We have not submitted the law because it is an open fundamental issue, and this is a question of how judges are elected, which is at the heart of the constitutional change. If changes occur here, then the whole concept of the current method of choice and election must also be changed in the Law on Judicial Service, in particular in that which operationalises these constitutional provisions. That is why we have decided, with the agreement of the representatives of the judiciary, to wait until the end of June and then to continue our work. As far as the specific law is concerned, I would like to say this. The Hercules project is not a project either by the Ministry of Justice or by the government, but a project by the Supreme Court. It's one of the forms of bailouts. As we deal with judicial backlogs, this is the law on courts, which states that if there is any backlog in the court - this is Article 60 - the President of the Court must adopt a resolution programme. The Supreme Court has offered all the Presidents of the Courts with backlogs, the Hercules project as an ideal framework for the mutual assistance of judges. What the government considered necessary and for which it was invited to do so was to give the project a legal basis. That and that's all we want with this law. However, we have never argued - if the explanations or explanations were understood to be somewhat overly optimistic, I apologize - that we will be able to remedy the backlog of the project and I agree with all those who have warned that this is a complex issue. In this regard, I would just like to say something about procedural legislation. This national assembly, most often at the initiative of the judges, has already made extensive changes in the procedural legislation - I must say so - to such a degree that some of the Council of Europe's assessments are that we have overly rejected access to the court and access to the judge. One aspect that we have addressed today - and for that I thank you all - is the law on free legal aid. However, there are other concerns. Procedural legislation has given broad powers to judges to prevent any abuse of proceedings. Another question that I cannot assess is how these powers are applied. Procedural legislation is with the amended provisions on service, with obligations to pay court fees as procedural assumptions, with the emphasis of contradiction, with the transfer of evidence at the first stage, with the transfer of evidence in the appeal procedure, with the increase of official powers and so on have done much that has been pointed out here today, probably not everything, but much. Assess whether and how these changes have taken place in practice is not, or at least not, solely the task of the executive branch of the Authority. We should do this with the judges. On individual issues, I would like to tell the individual Members who specifically addressed and provided clarifications. Mr. Jakič said that he was misled if the law was not needed, because the present law allows for allocation. It is true that the current law allows for allocation, but in the dictatorship, a higher judge may be assigned to a district court and a district judge to a district court. Warnings from the Presidents of the Courts were that this provision is too narrow, since it is the highest possible to assign from the higher courts to the District Courts and that the law does not allow it. That is why we have highlighted this as one of the necessary changes. Second. This law only allowed for full-time allocations. We wanted such a supplement that it would be possible for the judge to continue to work in his court working part-time so that there would be no backlog. The third is the regulation of the principle of a lawful judge. The fourth is the supplement to be decided on. Member of Parliament, Mr Aloise Sok asked if we had information on the number of judges per capita. We have this information. We have detailed data from the study made by German colleagues who, in the framework of the horizontal Phare project together with us, will identify the reasons and measures to prevent backlogs and we will inform the Slovenian public at the final conference, which will end June, and we have already called, with the previous invitation, also this national assembly to participate and hear the findings. With their own precision, German colleagues calculated that Germany has 25,5 judges per 100,000 inhabitants and Slovenia per 100,000 inhabitants of 36,6 judges. Given that they have carefully studied our legislation and organization, I think these data hold. And I also have data for a number of comparable European countries, which I cannot use with someone, I would say, is very convincing, because the arrangements to this extent are different, it is difficult to say what the number of judges per capita means, given that there is different regulation, what is in the jurisdiction of the courts and what is not in the jurisdiction of the courts and where certain professions are included. However, according to these figures, Slovenia is at the summit of European countries by number of judges compared to, say, according to these calculations, 2,000 to 2,800, reverse calculation, population, while, say, Austria to 12,000, Spain to 11,000, Denmark to 16,000, France to 12,000, and so on. This data has just led us to be able not only to increase the stock of judges and to look for reserves within the existing number and to ensure mobility. In this regard, the question of the Member, Mr Kavčič, as far as possible, has been rightly raised. This is possible because the burdens of our courts to this extent are different, for example, that we have a district court where the permeability factor is, as I would say, 0.6, and we have a district court where this quantity is 2.1. Which means that the first court is able, if it doesn't get any new cases, to put away everything it has in the good half of the year, and the second takes two years. And in the District Courts, these rates go from 0.4 in the most efficient or currently operating court to 3.5. Here we see the reserve we want to make possible by this law and something else. It was justifiably pointed out that there could be delays in the individual court if these judges went elsewhere to help. Therefore, the law has in place a provision that this allocation is possible only with the consent of the two Presidents of the Courts. We fully trust the Council of Justice, which in the final stage decides not to allow redefinitions from those courts that are overloaded, but only from those courts where the current work will not be too familiar. The question was asked where there was no backlog. I think I answered that. This information is available. The statistics have been produced - I apologize to Mr Lavrinc if he did not get them, we will send them, I will assure you - they were made in April. In addition, I have some cross data myself, so I can further explain. Mr Rokavec drew attention to the issue of access to a permanent mandate. It's a matter of constitutional debate. All I'm saying is that what you said is true. Some European countries have a certain probationary period after which a permanent judicial mandate is granted. I am just saying this as an explanation, without wanting to define myself on the issue of a permanent mandate, because I think that it is known that the European and global standards of judicial independence are just a permanent mandate. As far as the out-of-court settlement is concerned, we are preparing the basis, in the criminal procedure, we are already preparing in a fair process, we are preparing work and social disputes, we are also putting new family legislation into place. I told you about the procedural legislation. I'm not ruling out there's still a reserve. However, with regard to organisational legislation and the law on judicial service, I fully agree, and I guarantee that the government will come to this National Assembly with thorough changes, where there will also be talks on greater powers and on more effective internal control mechanisms. Again, I suggest you support the law. Although its effects will be relatively small compared to the size of the arrears, they will be very important, especially if the programme is implemented in such a way as to go to certain smaller courts and that we will be able to provide ongoing work in these smaller courts. What these courts will be, the Ministry does not decide on it, the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice will decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Now I'm just saying, Jakič Roman signed up, I understand, a replica, and then Mamić Ivan for the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I, of course, thank the Secretary of State for what he said. I've already said that we're trapped in some sort of separation of powers. But, of course, this loop does not mean that we should not discuss this as a legislative branch of authority, which we are nevertheless legally determined to discuss. The most insurmountable situation, however, seems to me that the judicial branch of the government itself is succinct at the dictates of an article which has no basis in any other than the increase in wages or allowances, and then I must not discuss it, even though, of course, I have to worry as a Member of State about the wage ratio of the public sector. You know, I'm very fond of schoolchildren, and they should have their salaries raised. I say they're underpaid. The culturers are also, I think it would be good if 7% of their wages were paid higher, and they justifiably strike before the Ministry of Culture. But, of course, as a Member of State, I have to keep an eye on the wage ratio in the public sector in such a way that the wage ratio does not fall. Secretary of State, you said, I was seduced. If the intention of this law were also by the writing on the part of the judges that it was merely this first part, then it would be stated: "The judge may be assigned temporarily to perform the judicial service, etc., for a maximum period of six months, for a maximum period of one year, the judge may be assigned no more than twice in a row, the provisional allocation shall be decided by the judicial council, the provisional allocation shall be without prejudice to the judicial position and the judicial salary." The part to which my debate is taking place relates to the second part of this article, which you will not convince me that this interference with the judiciary is in a way that interferes with some system and their independent work. This is a wage policy. Part two of this amendment. It's stimulation, and I've been talking about this stimulation in my discussion. Last but not least, on the working body, we have a clear answer that if the judges do not talk about 20% stimulation, they will not do so. My main point was to compare this, and so I told the minister how he could sit down with his ministerial colleague Čokovo when they were discussing wage policy, and he would say, "We have managed to do this" - we had heard earlier how we can, of course, drive the story with 20%, who helps and how. And the item this year is 50 million, the second year, you're going to say, but it's 500 million, given that you haven't done any analysis of whether this law can even eliminate these backlogs. Not only did it show that there was no answer to that, but it was also misleading to say that - first they said, only 20 judges would be, then they said, only 5 judges would be, and then they said that these 5 judges could be behind, and 533,000 more cases could be solved within four years! In four years! Statistically, mathematically -- I went to my colleague William Trophynic, we sat together, and I said, given that he's a very good mathematician, if all strangers consider whether that's possible. Of course, it is not possible because she is ignorant of what he said that the one who will go from Ptuj to Ljubljana is ignorant of how many cases will come to Ptuj and how many cases will remain in Ptuj's unresolved! And who's gonna save those people on Ptuj then? That's why I don't allow myself, as a state MP, that someone tells me I have to keep my mouth shut because it's a judicial branch of power, and I can't interfere with it. I did not define myself until the first part of this article, I am talking about wage policy in this country and I am saying that this part of the amendment has nothing to do with Hercules. It has nothing to do with Hercules! Mr Partlič told you - I made it up to myself that there would be a project [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , when doctors come up with them, and there will be a thousand other projects when we're behind. How will I tell my wife at home who she is, who is an English teacher, that she, who regularly does everything the way she needs to have the same salary for quite some time, will be difficult! [[...]] I'm gonna have a hard time telling her, and I'm gonna have a hard time telling her that someone is being stimulated for something that should be done. That's my point, and please don't tell me that I have to keep my mouth shut or not to discuss it because I don't separate and I don't know what this separation of three branches of power is. I am well aware, and that is why I have never gone - all the suggestions that came from any segment of the court at the point that solved systematically, I was silent and I accepted it. But to have someone put a pay policy on me, that's the story I decide! I decide in this country what pay policy will be. I don't like it, but I have to look out for all the segments in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I propose to the National Assembly that we listen to our fellow Member, Mamić, and then we conclude the general debate, of course, if the will is to do so in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u64	Just a moment, please! Then do you agree to listen to Mr. Mamić? Please, Ambassador Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u65	I hope I'll be brief. I thank you for your word. I think that everything we're talking about today, which is already mentioned and connected, education, health and so on, is a matter of our mentality in fact. If Hercules is solving this problem, thank God, I support him with both hands! This Hercules, at least I imagine he's like some kind of instructor to a student. Now this student, if he's relying on an instructor himself, he's not going to be one of them. This is said to last for a period of time, and then when the problem arises again, it is the same, but the problem arises and it is solved. So I'd like to support it somehow. Let's say the question that Mr Sok raised, and the answer is that in Germany there are a lot fewer judges than in Slovenia, I do not know how effective, effective new employment would be. I don't know, it would take some formula to get these people to, I don't say, stimulate them, force them to do the right thing. All right, they'll be able to say, "what do you do in that national council, what do you do, talk about it for three hours because you have unlimited, and you repeat yourself, etc., one point of the agenda all day or more." Well, we can all tell each other what to do. How to stimulate? Even in school, for example, when Mrs. Chokov said, "Good professors should be rewarded," I asked who is a good professor and who is a bad professor. So that's very difficult. I'm just mentioning one more case. I come out of Ajdovščina, we had - I was a juror for eight years, a judge who worked regularly, had only a few months' delays, and no more, when she went elsewhere, other judges walked around and they delayed these things, for one debate they spent so much time, three times more times, four times more than she did, and in one year it came up that the delay was then two years, etc. So we should think about it a little bit, talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Since he has applied for the debate, we see that we will not be able to finish until the morning work and, of course, I am interrupting the meeting. We'll pick it up at 2.30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u67	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We continue the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 6th session, on 31.5.2001: Just Bevk from 17:00 p.m. onwards, Rudolf Može for the afternoon part of the session, Vila Trofenik for the start of the afternoon session, also Jožef Školč, for the start of the afternoon session, the following members of the committee for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services Anton Delak, Marko Diaci, mag. Janez Drobnič, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Joseph Jerovšek, Franz Kangler, Bogomir Zamernik and from 4.30 p.m. on Christmas Ivan. In the morning work, we have not yet concluded the general debate on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service. Mr. Bernick, I think you called. I'm sorry, we'll be able to determine the presence first. I ask you politely to look at the neighbors and see if they may have cards in them, but they are not present. Your Honor, there is no one in this Chamber! Your conduct is not exemplary, nor is it proper for others waiting in the hall for your presence. Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, presence is first identified. 43 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is not concluded and, according to the Rules of Procedure, we shall determine the presence of a second time. We're detecting a presence. Please insert the cards. We'll find out the presence next time. There are 46 Members and Members present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may, therefore, take a decision in force. We remained in the general debate on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service. Dr. Joseph Bernick signed up for the word at noon, so I'm giving him my word now. Respected and respected! I ask for the peace needed so that Mr Bernik can express his opinion. I'm asking for peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u68	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Secretary! First of all, thank you very much for the interruption of your predecessor's session so that we can go to the rescue and today we can continue this great debate on judicial service. Today's debate has highlighted many different problems as well as possible solutions. The backlogs are truly great and this harms Slovenian people in their quality of life. We have to admit that such backlogs, such as around the world, not just here with us or in Europe, are being solved or trying to solve in different ways, and among these there are also so-called "flying" judicial groups going from place to place without any additional reward. Of course, this is where we are discussing the Slovenian recipe for a solution to backlogs. However, this proposal is far from satisfactory, but it is the only one we now have before us. In my view, this proposal will not solve these major setbacks, although it is possible that the current situation will improve slightly. All of this has highlighted all these problems and has also shown a very rich debate this morning. I think we can conclude that the problem is not in Kazuistics, but it is systemic and that we will have to face the change in the system of justice. It is true that our citizens and voters expect the judiciary and our national assembly to do something radical and change the whole thing, change the current system and thus make life easier for them. Well, there's something we need to do. However, this proposal, which is before us, is very eco-experimental, expensive and without any assurance that it will achieve a thorough change in the situation. And I'm very surprised at the fact that this proposal is somehow "son fine", that is, without end, forever. I hear there's some debate on this thing on the working committee, and I hear that the thought of it has been rejected. Therefore, I am asked whether it would not be appropriate to include in this proposal a period of 12 to 18 months and then review the effects. At that time, it would be wise to oblige our government to prepare a proposal for a law on a fundamental systemic change of the judiciary, of course, with the full cooperation of this authority in the drafting of this law. If the government cannot do so at this time, then we should decide again what to do. It seems to me that, as such, without a time limit, the proposal is unacceptable and we will face the same situation even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.5.2001. You also have two amendments on your hands, which have been tabled by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. First, I am putting to the debate and decision the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, an amendment which says that a new Article 14 is added, which reads as follows: "The mandate of the judge elected to the judicial service lasts eight years, with the work of the judge being checked every two years. After the expiry of the term of office, the judge may run again for judicial service." Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u70	Your Honor! In my speech in the debates of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I have drawn attention to two amendments, which we believe would significantly affect the substance of the judiciary itself in Slovenia, as well as the existing or proposed law. I have a duty to remind you, because, otherwise, the secretariat for legislation and legal matters will probably do as well, that our amendments are essentially contrary to the sustainability of the judicial function defined in the Constitution. With our amendments, we have tried to launch a debate on the relevance of sustainability, and in our view, it is the persistence or time limit of the duration of the judicial mandate, with the possibility of checking the work every two years, that has accelerated the efficiency of the Slovenian judiciary, to which I believe we are all trying in the national assembly. In return, I am procedurally proposing a proposal for a decision that you will receive, in the event that the decision is adopted, we will also withdraw both amendments. The proposal for a decision shall read as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service and the constitutional amendments announced, to examine and prepare proposals for the replacement of a permanent mandate in terms of content: The mandate of the judge elected to the judicial service shall be eight years, with the work of the judge being checked every two years. After the expiry of the term of office, the judge may run again for judicial service." By adopting this Decision, we would also allow the matter to be defined in the Constitution. We all know that certain constitutional changes have been announced, as well as in the legal form itself. I propose that the National Assembly adopts a proposal for a decision and thus shows that it is in fact something to do with bringing an element of efficiency to the Slovenian judiciary, which will satisfy, in particular, those most affected by the outstanding roles and their long-term procedures. In the event that the proposal is adopted, we will withdraw both proposed or both of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Pache, if you'll allow me to explain. Proposals for decisions in such a form as you have read to the National Assembly shall be adopted after a full vote has been taken on the law. So that the condition that you withdraw both amendments in so far as a technical decision is taken, and we cannot do so, or if we did so, would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u72	I really wanted to say or make a procedural proposal in good faith, and I just kept reminding the Members that if we did, we would withdraw the amendments. There was no conditionality on our part. I propose that you follow the procedural proposal of the Slovenian National Party and put our proposal to the vote, as we have instructed you to do with the rules of procedure and the rules of conduct in this house. I hope you stick to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u73	I guess I was misunderstood. Mr Pece, we are in the stage of second reading and we are considering the amendment tabled by your Group of Members. The proposal for a decision, as you have proposed, is discussed and voted every time the law we are considering is passed. We cannot consider this moment of your proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u74	Look, in order to avoid all this talk and my and yours and the belief that we are trying to impose on each other, let's say that this is defined by the Rules of Procedure, I merely suggest that, in return for unnecessary complications and because of the loss of time, you simply put to the vote a proposal for a decision that you have received in the form of a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I guess we don't get along. I'm afraid I can't do that. To the extent possible, I would be in full violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So we're still dealing with your amendment, which you've explained. I ask the Members and the Members, who want the Lord Jakič, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I was very critical of the backlog today. However, I will not, of course, support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. For the first time, because it is a constitutional category, a permanent mandate is called. And secondly, because I believe that by writing down in the Constitution that judges have a permanent mandate, we have given them independence in some way. I think this amendment, which would turn a permanent term into a judicial service for eight years, is unacceptable, at least for me personally. I think there are other mechanisms. I was talking about them today, the disciplinary responsibility of the judges. However, disciplinary responsibility can be regulated, not in such a way that they are deprived of a permanent mandate, but that, of course, what is already going on is a proper assessment of the backlogs - you even have statistics on this and the judiciary runs this statistics - they can probably agree within the judiciary on some other disciplinary measures that would, of course, remedy those whose backlogs are large because of themselves. I personally will not support the amendment to Article 2 of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because, as I said, it is not constitutional or contrary to Article, the Constitution, and secondly, I think it is right that judges have a permanent mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u78	It'll be like that. Maybe I'll just make it up to you. Look. During the period from 8 to 10 July 1998, the Council of Europe organised a multi-lateral meeting aimed at establishing the legal arrangements for judges. This is the so-called European Charter on the Rule of Law for Judges, where it explicitly travels how the countries that are members of the Council should act. If anything, of course, where there is a permanent mandate, it is not recommended that the matter be returned one step back - this is the first; the second, even where there is a limited mandate, is conditioned that, for example, not as with us judges is elected by an independent institution - i.e. from a few sides policy, etc. That's one. Our Constitution, because it is modern, has, of course, already, as most of the European Convention on Human Rights or, for example, a document adopted in Nice, already written all these fundamental principles and one of them is there, I do not know, Article 126 or 128 of the Constitution, which speaks of the permanent term of judges. I think it would be, so I understand this amendment more than an appeal to the law-makers, the novels of the law on judicial service, that they might consider the direction mentioned here by Mr Rokavec, which is that before someone becomes a judge, they had some - as I would say - introductory deadline and that - so it is possible to arrange it even later. However, any such solution, which is of a systemic nature, etc., I think it is necessary to accept, not so much under pressure of emotion, but on the basis of some analyses and findings and to put in place such a way as to sustain, I don't know, at least a decade. Thank you very much. We can't support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tina Bitenc, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to remind you that, in our view, both the amendments tabled are unconstitutional - one in terms of the duration of the mandate and the other in terms of the fact that the Constitution only knows the termination and withdrawal of the judicial function, not the interruption. In addition, I would like to point out that they are also technically incorrect, because one amendment should be for the new A1 article and the other amendment for the new B1 article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We are voting on the amendment as presented at the outset. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 23. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment which should have been tabled for Article B1. This is the amendment that reads: Adds a new Article 15 You have it on the table so that I do not read it. [[...]] Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 9 to 26. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 26.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We now return to the review of the amendments of 23.5. 2001 I shall put the first and third amendments to Article 1 for consideration and decision. The first amendment is proposed by the Committee and is an amendment to the Government's amendment. Under 2 is the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body. Under 3 is also the government's amendment with the support of the parent's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u82	No, I'd just like to explain. Perhaps at that time, in my opening act, someone did not listen carefully enough. The first amendment is an amendment to the government's amendment. This is precisely what 20% of these are accounted for. That's all it is. However, the representatives of the judicial branch of power also pointed out this, so that if the remainder were written just as it was, it might be doubtful. This would mean that we would pay in a certain way and the Court of Auditors would find that it was wrong. By suggesting to all that, as the committee has done, you first support the amendment of the committee, then the amendment of the government and, of course, the last amendment, the amendment of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 3. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 30 votes against 4. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We're still moving on to the amendment under number three. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. In favour of 29 votes against 3. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment under number 3 has been accepted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 33 to 6. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 2 and the amendment to this article, proposed by the Government, the original working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment to Article 1. 49 Members and Members are present. In favour of 29 votes against 3. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 2 has been deleted. We need to discuss and vote on the third article, which is contained in the basic text of the drafters, in the Rapporteur and says that the law enters into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 3. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. In favour of 29 votes against 3. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the title of the law. We have an amendment to the title of the law, which is also listed in the review. This is an amendment from the government that the mother's working body supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on an amendment to the title of the law. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 4. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the title of the law has been completely amended. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1 and 2 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to submit to an open article of the amendment, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm also asking the secretariat if there might have been a discrepancy? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. In favour of 29 votes against 6. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against six.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, the Internal Policy Committee tabled an additional proposal for a decision [[is in the amendment review]] , which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to set up a joint expert group to examine and prepare an analysis of the reasons for the delay, including the provisions of substantive and procedural law. On the basis of the analysis and the reasons found, the expert group should draw up concrete proposals for the resolution or reduction of judicial backlogs and examine all possible solutions, including those put forward in the debate on the proposal for a law amending the law on judicial service." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u84	I will vote against this decision myself, because it seems to me that it is completely illogical and pointless that when we adopt the law, when some things should be arranged on the basis of analysis and on the basis of data, the law was probably ready; if that was not the case, then of course this is so much worse. And certainly the government is responsible for the situation in this area and will have to obtain these analyses in order to draw up a new law. The National Assembly is not the one who orders something, but adopts laws, acts, and so forth that are within its jurisdiction. As in many such cases, I will vote against this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please. Mr. Jakič, it's your turn right after that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'm afraid there's gonna be a repeat of the story since yesterday, when they were hitting each other on these benches. What's this all about? It has been explained several times in this debate that the law is only a trifle of what is already being prepared, and this is the new law on judicial service. It has been explained on several occasions that this is actually the Supreme Court's project and that, by deciding for this year's budget, we have already, in some way, been following the path of going this way, with a decision for those 50 million dedicated to the Hercules project. Since politics is a possibility of art, this moment is no different than to enforce this law. In this way, if I am honest, we will also assume responsibility for whether or not the backlogs will be reduced to the judiciary. The decision itself is one that our own, that is, this legislative branch of power, can accept. It is necessary to know that all branches of government are independent and we can only propose here, so that both the executive branches and the judicial branches of government should be together - because otherwise I cannot imagine doing this analysis, which has not yet been fully done. I think it's a big deal, too. We are imposing here not only the law on judicial service, but, for example, cases such as those that I have indicated that it is not possible for these procedural provisions to be used in a shocking way or that in such a case, I will say, the state or the court are in some way protecting itself, and this must, of course, be incorporated into the laws, if it is not already, because something is already, as has already been explained today. I therefore propose that you take this decision with understanding and that we take this additional decision, which, of course, cannot be binding. We can't put up a hand - "by then and then do this to us" - they're independent - "both will do it - they won't do it". It is up to us if we "sniff" at the government to say you are no longer the right one; while we would not like the Supreme Court, which was actually the holder of this project, but I fear gentlemen that there is no possibility of any impact. That is why I take such an additional decision more than criticism to those who have drafted this proposal, and thus criticism in some way to the government which is - not an ugly expression of use, but - agree to go to a better time on the contrary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakič and then Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I must say that I understand, of course, the intention of the additional decision or effort made by the mother's working body to somehow ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do something. But frankly, I, of course, see this additional decision as a relief of conscience for all those who, of course, have agreed with my opposition to the law itself and, of course, with arguments in some way. What's written here, of course, in this is, "no connection," to write. Republic of Slovenia and Ministry of Justice: Statistics for the year 2000, 140 pages of pure analysis. 140 pages of pure analysis, a summary report for all matters, percentages, exactly where there are backlogs, where there are no backlogs. This analysis is done by a respected colleague, a respected colleague. I, of course, will not make a positive or negative statement about this decision. But I think that, of course, the Hercules project is exactly what we are or want to write through this additional decision, and it is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should come before this national assembly once, for God's sake, with amendments to those laws that will save backlogs, not to go before this national assembly to resolve the material situation of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u90	Well, of course, it's free, but it has to be repeated a hundred times in this national council that it's just one thing and the only thing. It is the fact that each branch of power in this country has its powers, its powers and, above all, the tasks that it must carry out and propose to the other two branches of authority to establish a common expert group. This is simply, I will say, some extension of what Marx has always advocated: that the remnants of previous relations should be eliminated when the congregation ordered the other two. We are here now, of course, because we can't do anything else than we suggest. Otherwise, of course, this word in the first sentence would be different and it would be: "an effort by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court". I'm not going to argue further because it's pointless. But indeed, the responsibility for the functioning of the judicial branch of power in a material sense, organizational and so on, is on the government. And really, organizational and what's inside of it is in the Supreme Court or within the judiciary. They will come with appropriate measures and must come. Or propose a law. Propose marriage to those who think you know more about it. Do the analysis, request analysis. But it seems to me that this is really something that could be superfluous at the present time for this national assembly. Everyone has to do what he does in his field. We are in favour of adopting laws, making decisions, and, of course, if we are not satisfied with what they have brought so far, we could, with amendments, as well as most of the laws, change and do so. But like I said, at every additional decision I'm going to take, at every point, because I think that's something that doesn't fit in the way that it should be. So Parliament is adopting laws. The government has a government law and all other regulations imposing on it how to enforce it, so it is also called the executive branch of power. The judicial branch of power has its laws, its organization, its powers, not the fact that we impose something on each other here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Dr. Brace, then Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u92	Replica to Mr. Anderlich. We, in our Group of Members, do not need to explain this, Mr Anderlich, we know this. However, if your words were intended for your Members, it would be good to have this sorted out, not in plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u94	Look. Everyone's right in one piece. But in the end, I still think it's only wise if you support it. I'll tell you why. On the contrary, if it were that simple, then I would suggest to my colleague, Jakic, that he write the law himself. The analysis is here to write the laws, and it'll be fine. That's not how it works. The critical mass of knowledge in Slovenia is not the same as in the United States, for example. There are so many and so many people who are capable of doing this or who are incapable of doing it. That's the first one. Second. Without looking into the "fowl" of the judiciary, it is not possible to prepare analyses, these are just numbers, these are just statistics, where are the reasons, what are the reasons, for example, whose "process tricks" to say, lawyers most often use, whose mistakes are made by judges and therefore postpone these treatments, etc. This is not the kind of thing that, I don't know, now three Members come to the Owl and then control it there. That's not the point, gentlemen. They're their own. Therefore, without their help, it is simply impossible to do so. The second is, of course, the government, which is the proponent of laws when it comes to some normal things, so far as I have had experience in these nine years since I am here, even whenever we have made a mistake ourselves, if there is not something very short, it has always been necessary to fix. Here, too, all three branches of government meet - this is it. I'm not gonna be teaching that check and balance stuff right now. - "we a little une, destroy a little us" - etc. But the fact is that we, in my opinion, as such, politely propose that everyone do their own thing and, of course, we also make a criticism, which means that he has not done so far, is enough for my notions and that is why I will not come forward anymore. However, I kindly ask you to support this proposal for a decision adopted by the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr Anderlich's concerns. But I'm going to vote in favour because I've already been on the board for it. But I have to say how I understand this conclusion. I don't understand it by giving either the Supreme Court or the Ministry the right to plead with each other that they could not carry out each other's tasks. Because this conclusion could be understood as such. For the Minister knows, Mr Secretary of State, that there is an analysis at the Ministry and he said earlier correctly: "Yes, but they could not prepare the law because we have not yet made or have not been able to agree on certain matters to the superior courts." This can't go on forever. It is the responsibility of the government to make sure that, according to its opinion, as far as procedural and material things are concerned, it aligns as much with the professional who works directly, because that is the only thing that can be said. However, as far as organisational matters are concerned, it is not certain that harmonisation must be complete, since there may also be different interests in the affected. So in a very, very short time, the government has to come up with proposals, but not understand, until this alignment is gone, we can wait another year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Jenull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I would like to inform the National Assembly, which was told on the Committee that the Ministry of Justice submitted to the government in March an analysis of the causes and proposals for measures to remedy the judicial backlog. The government has accepted this, but unfortunately, I see it would be good if it were sent to the National Assembly because it was. There is no reservation that the analysis, or any other, extended analysis, should be sent. As part of that analysis, the government identified what powers it had, identified what it had already done, and identified what else it had to do. One of the measures is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Judicial Service that you have adopted today, one of the measures is a major novelty of the Law on Judicial Service that is ready, and I have said that we are currently awaiting the outcome of the debate on constitutional changes. The analysis also shows the effects, as we observe in the government, of the changes in procedural laws so far and of the new changes we are preparing. The Government will fulfil these obligations by submitting these laws to the National Assembly for adoption; it can also submit a report that has been coordinated with the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss the proposal for an additional decision anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the additional decision of which the committee is the proposer. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 32 against one. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. On the bench, you also received a proposal for a decision a few minutes ago, which is proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, namely: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service and the constitutional amendments announced, to examine and prepare a proposal for the replacement of a permanent mandate within the meaning of the content: The mandate of the judge elected by the judicial service shall be eight years, with the work of the judge being checked every two years. After the expiry of the term of office, the judge may run again for judicial service." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you. I'll be brief. In fact, with regard to this proposal for a decision, which you or you will still have on the table, the whole discussion of the Slovenian national party in a speech about the law on our table revolved around. We are convinced that this is a concrete proposal compared to the previous decision, which has triggered some pre-planned debates in the framework of the Liberal Democracy. This is a proposal for a decision that can actually make a difference. We can change that our judicial mills, that is, the judiciary in Slovenia, will work faster. The decision is, of course, up to you - if you decide on the so-called silence, life mandates, permanent mandates, then you will vote against, with one or the other explanation. Whether your explanation by content is identical to that or not, but you can only easily show it by pressing the key. We are convinced that the government's proposal, as presented, in such a form, would help in the Slovenian judiciary what we are now reading to it. It's a failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the additional decision as presented. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 18. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposal for a decision by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group has been adopted. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and, as the College of the National Assembly has decided, we are moving on to 18. Period of the day - the first draft of the law on public servants. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Greg Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on Public Servants is a law that has been spoken of for about a decade. It is a law that many thought would solve all the problems that have accumulated in the public sector and at the same time the law, which makes Slovenia receive negative assessments year after year in the European Union's regular reports. All these marks of this law have, of course, led to a great deal of controversy as to what this law should govern. The fundamental conceptual dilemma that has arisen over and over again was the question of whether to regulate the system and the service relationship in the public sector as a whole or only in public administration, and in particular whether this law should solve the problem of a broken-down system of public sector wages. On the one hand, the proposal, which is now in the National Assembly, is a compromise between the solution by which the law should regulate the whole public sector, i.e. all public sector employees, and the solution that this law should apply only to public administration. On the other hand, the applicant decided not to include the pay system in this law. Why such a decision? What are the reasons, and what are the advantages of the law in such a concept as it is proposed? On the one hand, it is a matter of finding that the public sector is so diverse and so varied that violence against the public sector would occur if all service relations were uniformly and uniformly regulated by one law. Another time. We have come from the fact that there remains a significant difference between the State in a narrow sense and the so-called state-owned organisations or public-law persons established by the State precisely because it does not have them under direct control but controls them through a funding system, through the setting of standards and earlier different control mechanisms. In addition, we have come from a tradition or from an existing state, such that the public sector, apart from public administration, is subject to general labour law and collective bargaining for non-economic activities and, of course, also to sectoral collective agreements. On the other hand, in the European Union's regular progress reports, we have a clear position of the European Commission that the main reason for the downsides we are getting in the area of public administration is that we do not have a new law on public servants. With these findings from the reports, of course, it is possible to negate. I believe that in recent years we have taken pictures of the Slovenian administration in a somewhat too black light, which then came back to us as boomerang in the regular progress reports. Nevertheless, the European Commission's reports have reminded us that in the field of the service system there are elements that need to be rectified. As a result, there was not much choice as to whether or not this law should be enacted. This law does not mean that everything is wrong with the current service system. This law is based on what was done well with the Law on Workers in State Authorities in 1990 and with subsequent novelties, and, of course, an analysis of which issues are not well settled and can be better addressed. With regard to the question of the pay system, however, it should be pointed out that this is an issue that can be dealt with separately, especially because wages have strong reasons for taking the public sector as a whole. The question can be seen as an independent problem. If we associate it with the law on public servants, with the topic now before you, we see that we are talking about two relatively different problems, two relatively different topics. So maybe it's one thing and the other thing to decide separately. Of course, both laws could be combined, but one could constitute an obstacle to the other or the other as a barrier to the first. This proposal, which is before you, was created in intensive coordination or cooperation with representative trade unions in state bodies, professional associations and, of course, other state authorities, because this law does not apply only to state administration, but will also apply to all other state bodies. Also for the staff in the National Assembly, of course. Therefore, I say, we have also discussed the law with other state authorities and also, of course, with associations of local communities. And now to the content of this law. The general part covering some more than 20 articles, or the introductory part covering some more than 20 articles, is that connective tissue, which is supposed to represent a common arrangement, the common architecture of the whole public sector. This is a definition of a public servant who is broad and covers all employees in the public sector, not only in the country and in the local communities in a narrow sense, but also in other persons of public law, public institutions, public funds, public agencies. The first common part also contains some common principles applicable to all civil servants and also the regulation of certain other common issues. Among them, it seems particularly important to me that one that lays down a different principle, as is the case with labour law, where in principle each employer can regulate the rights of workers in his own way, but of course it must not go below the level laid down in the law and the collective agreement. Of course, there is no such logic in the public sector, so it is stipulated in the law that in cases where a law or collective agreement provides for certain rights, an individual employer cannot provide for higher rights, unless expressly permitted by this law. In order to avoid misinterpretation, the public sector could be treated in the same way as in the private sector, that every employer has a completely free contractual freedom to be completely free in the field of negotiations. I am moving to the second part of the law, i.e. those which apply to state authorities and local authorities, i.e. to a total of around 35,000 employees in the State administration, in ministries, bodies in the composition, administrative units and government services, other state bodies, the National Assembly, the Office of the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, including in the judiciary and, of course, 192 municipal administrations. This second part governs the service system, i.e. the employment system and regulates the rights and obligations of the employment relationship. In this regard, we have drawn on the principle that the rights and obligations of civil servants and local self-government bodies, as far as possible, should be brought closer to the situation of employees in the private sector. This means that only urgent specificities are regulated in this law. For all others, general labour law applies to civil servants and other employees. The law also provides for the conclusion of a collective agreement for this only part of the public sector that has not yet had a collective agreement. And because of this, he felt rightly neglected. The law regulates the decision-making of rights from labour relations and legal protection, setting a standard which the new labour law will not provide. In fact, it provides a procedural standard of decision-making on rights with a written reasoned decision and a possibility of appeal. Therefore, a two-stage decision on rights and obligations from a working relationship. The key novelty that we are stressing at all times is whether the separation of political positions, political functions and high official positions, high official positions, in particular in the executive branch of government, is essential. Today, we have a situation where we have about 150 political officials in the executive branch, many of us, who are acting more formally and by professional criteria than by political criteria. This applies to the heads of the authorities in the composition of the ministries, for State secretaries, for heads of government services. This limit has not been clearly drawn. The idea of this law is, of course, in conjunction with the new law on governance, that these positions are clearly separated, that on the one hand we have political officials in the executive branch of the government, who introduce political elements of decision-making - these are, of course, ministers - and a smaller number of state secretaries, but from here we have professional administrative managers who run individual segments in ministries, individual government services and individual bodies in the composition. This, of course, is a European, truly European comparable solution. Here we can very clearly claim the floor; no doubt such a system can be compared with any European country. Of course, it was difficult for us to ask how to regulate the system of "recruitment" - as the military calls it - and the choice of officials in these key positions. There are, of course, radical variants of solving this problem - from the American version, where we know that the entire top of the administration changes with politics, to the second extreme, which is British, where high officials are set up in a sort of life-long way - both systems of course cause certain problems. That is why we have decided on an interim compromise option, which is again somewhat comparable to many European countries that have opted for this compromise. [[Germany, France, etc.]] . A compromise option that ensures, on the one hand, that people come to random administrative positions through difficult selection procedures that ensure high professionalism, and on the other hand, of course, that a political official who leads and directs politically, for example, the Ministry, has the option at the end of this choice to choose the one with whom he can work. Since we cannot be blinded, it is of course necessary, at the final stage, to cooperate between a policy run by the Ministry or the municipal administration, namely the mayors, and so-called administrative managers. So if I'm trying to paint a picture of what, according to the new regulation, the law on administration and the law on civil servants would look like management in the ministry. In the Ministry, there would be a minister and a maximum of two state secretaries representing the political circle, which would, of course, be directed primarily outwardly, i.e. in government operations, in cooperation with Parliament, with the public, etc., and of course a professional official structure with the Secretary-General, two, three, depending on the number of work areas, the four directors of the largest organisational units appointed outside the Directorates and, of course, the so-called authorities within the Ministry. The next major amendment to the law is a change in the field of human resources management and human resources decision-making. Human resources decisions are decentralised and brought to the level of individual bodies. Thus, the government will no longer decide on a number of appointments, discharges, promotions and so on, because this is meaningless, but will be left to individual ministries. The Minister will have the floor, as it is said, in the design of the Ministry's management, and from here on this management will be left to further human resources decision-making. Of course, the government's National Assembly will have in its hands scissors and canvassing the framework for these human resources decisions through the employment plan, which is an integral part of the budgetary debate. So decentralisation of human resources decision-making by simultaneously strengthening control, not only by strengthening it, but by establishing it - because today we do not have control over the legality and regularity of the implementation of labour law in the public authorities - the supervisory authority that can see horizontally whether the human resources processes are properly managed in the administration and, of course, even in the municipalities, we do not have it. The law provides for a new, different role of government staff service, which is comparable again to similar European institutions. The Human Resources Management Service takes over the role of human resources management at the level of the government or the entire state administration, takes over the role of the one who keeps records of human resources, that is to say, a human resources data bank, while also servicing individual administrations in the implementation of human resources procedures. That's the role of the Human Resources Service. The law lays clear grounds for human resources records, i.e. the human resources data bank, and thus the possibility of establishing an internal labour market within the state administration, which may be linked to the staff records of municipal administrations, to the personnel records of other state authorities. Of course, it's an ideal goal, and we didn't want to write it in the law because it might look illusory, but there is a possibility that, in the final stage, the human resources records of all state authorities and municipal administrations will be linked to the single record. The employment system remains, in principle, as regards job planning and job systemisation, as it is today. So, employment is planned when the budget is planned, and every body has a systemisation, which will be significantly more transparent after the new – I will explain later why. The key novelty that this law brings is the tightening of the public tender procedure. Here we recognize that we have had a great deal of a dilemma between lawmakers on the issue of whether such complex public competition procedures will not stifle rapid and effective human resources decision-making, but on the other hand, we have an important value: equal access to office in administration and the principle of objective choice according to the criteria of professional competence. This can be achieved to a large extent only through a genuine public tender involving the publication of a job, which includes a selection process involving a reasoned decision, why we have chosen the one we have chosen and which, of course, includes legal protection. Without any of these elements, the public competition is flawed. Let me say that, of course, the public competition is regulated by the government regulation today, in the law, and has become a principle, of course, based on the constitutional provision and the law on workers in state bodies, but unfortunately its implementation is not as it should be. A public servant in a public body enters into a working relationship with a contract, and we would like to stress once again the maximum equivalence of his status with that of a private sector employee. The law provides for sanctions, which we do not have today, to be punished in the event of a breach of the law in the interest of the public interest. Of course, there are labour and legal sanctions if, for example, the employment contract violates the rights of the worker. However, we do not have sanctions in the opposite direction. For example, a person was chosen without a public contest. For example, if a ministry manager, the secretary-general, made a contract with a certain person and admitted a higher salary in the contract than he did in the regulations. And so on. We do not have these mechanisms today, and the law provides for sanctions. It was very sensitive to weigh legal certainty: if I conclude a contract as an employee, I count that the employer knew or acted legally. However, at the end of this weighting, we have proposed a solution that in such cases it is possible to terminate the contract, but within a limited period. The law brings a new system of job titles and positions, which is significantly more transparent than today and which also enables the establishment of a career system. Today the promotion of higher titles or higher jobs takes place irregularly, consistently, without predetermined clear rules. For the title is not separated from the place of employment. It happens that administrative authorities create some stocks, some reserves in job systems, so that people who turn out to be good or who work for a certain period of time in this body can make progress and thus get a higher salary. This is a formal promotion to a higher job, although one sits at the same table, does the same work and so on. So, the current practice, I would say, we are turning into a law in such a way that the regulation is clear, transparent, that there is no need for any diversion to redistribute ourselves to other jobs but it is possible to advance to higher titles. The career path is clearly defined. The employee knows exactly what he's got ahead of him. If, for example, he works well for six years, read the average if he works well for three years and so on. In short, the consequences of his good or intermediate or bad work are known to him in advance. Of course, the system of advancement is impossible without the system of evaluation. In the evaluation system, it must be made clear that of course we have not been able to fully align the concept with all representative unions. Of course, all public sector unions, including in other countries, oppose evaluation because they believe that evaluation is subjective and, of course, they are right. For perfectly clear and unambiguous standards for measuring performance cannot be established for the evaluation of performance in the administration. In some areas, yes, but in many areas, such as the drafting of legislation and the like, of course, success cannot be measured. Nevertheless, we have introduced the evaluation into the law because it is necessary for the system, for career satisfaction, for the system of advancement. I have to warn you about that. Of course, we have not opened a legal remedy in the assessment, although the unions have requested this, complaints against the assessment or even though there is no judicial remedy, for reasonable reasons. The system we are proposing is a combination of a career and a positioning system. It has many career elements because it allows an official to advance to higher titles in the same workplace. On the other hand, it has elements of the positioning system, which, of course, are that the system is not closed - a career system means that people can only enter entry points - and then progress to higher jobs over time. Such a system is closed in front of the private sector, we cannot afford it in Slovenia, we have relatively limited human resources, so of course it is necessary to leave the system open to attract people from the private sector, universities, etc. It would be wrong to legalize a pure career system that would prevent it. The law includes a chapter on the rationalisation of operations, which allows the administrative authority to identify surpluses or surpluses of labour - i.e. the permanent cessation of the worker’s need - and also regulates precisely the procedure by which public servants may end the employment relationship in such cases. Unlike today, the law regulates professional examinations because it places an expert examination as a condition for anyone who comes to the office of administration. That's not what today is. Today, there is a difference between discrimination between those in the administration who are conducting an internship and who are ultimately required to pass an expert examination, and between those who come to the administration later, in later years of their careers. That's wrong. Anyone who comes into the administration can, as an excellent expert in the field of environment, space, construction, culture, sociology in general, etc., be difficult to do without knowing the basic principles of the functioning of the administration, the system of public finances, the administrative procedure, the constitutional arrangements - that is, how this country works - and of course also the European Union's arrangements, the integration in which we are speedily involved. In the chapter, in the work on rights and duties, the law deals only with matters which, due to public interest, cannot be covered by general labour law. In particular, I stress flexibility in the performance of work and mobility with institutes such as, for example, performing work outside the job description, if necessary. It is possible for the staff member and his superiors to agree on an increased workload, which is also further rewarded. This is a provision that allows those who do the most "deliver" in administrative bodies to take advantage to give them the opportunity and to reward them accordingly. The will must be mutual. It is also possible to do project work, which is becoming increasingly common in the public administration. So, the law contains mechanisms to facilitate the establishment of project groups. The essential novelty to be stressed is that the restrictions imposed by the current legislation on out-of-service activities for civil servants are lifted. Today, the arrangement is exceptional and, in principle, the civil servant must do nothing outside of his job. For senior executives, i.e. the highest level of co-operation, this is absolutely true, for those medium-sized, administrative workers, the law provides that the superior or the chairman must give his consent. We have estimated that such a restriction is unnecessary, that the principle must be reversed - that is, that the civil servant is also allowed what is not prohibited, and not the other way around. So that in his spare time he can do anything, unless - so the ban is possible, but there is no need for prior consent. [[...]] And this "unless" refers, of course, to situations where, in its work, someone could come into a conflict of interest between the activity he is carrying out and his job, if, for example, an inspector who controls an area at the same time conducts this activity in this area or, of course, if he harms the interests or reputation of the body in which he is working. The labour legal part of this law specifically regulates disciplinary responsibility, the identification of the incapacity of an official or a public servant and the termination of the employment relationship. This is particularly because, in these three points, the law deliberately deviates from the general labour regulation. In the case of disciplinary responsibility, there is a special feature in the fact that a disciplinary measure also provides for the termination of a working relationship that is not provided for in the new labour law - in the new labour law, a disciplinary measure is a measure to discipline the worker and not to eliminate the employer. In the event of incapacity being identified, a special procedure, which is concluded by an administrative decision against which an appeal is possible, is regulated and is therefore linked to the termination of the employment relationship. Therefore, the comparison between this law and the labour law shows that, by virtue of the law on public servants, it is, of course, more difficult to break the employment relationship for a personal reason or more precisely, due to incapacity or for a false reason, because of disciplinary infringement, of course, to achieve more procedurally than according to the current text of the proposed labour law, because in both cases there is a special procedure to be concluded with the decision and the possibility of appeal. Just a word about the transitional provisions of this law. The transitional provisions are written in such a way as to allow a relatively painless transition from the current to the new state. Therefore, the time-limit and, in particular, the time-limit for the application of this law is relatively long. On the one hand, it is necessary to prepare well for the entry into force of this law, to adopt a series of sub-legislative rules, to prepare technological and other grounds for human resources records and so on. On the other hand, this new distribution of cards between political and professional positions, of course, also takes some time and the best time for this new division is certainly the formation of a new government after the parliamentary elections. Finally, of course, the issue of transitional provisions concerning the material situation of public servants is particularly sensitive. Here, of course, we made sure that this law did not interfere with the material situation of anyone. So it doesn't make anyone feel worse about their material position, pay. At the same time, it also acts as a financial neutral. Therefore, it does not mean increasing public funds for public servants' salaries after their application. Why we can argue this or on which provisions I justify this claim, and of course, if necessary, I will explain in the discussion below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Dr. Virant, for the comprehensive presentation of the bill. The draft law also considered the Internal Policy Assembly as the parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u104	Vice-President, after such a brilliant introduction, you can understand that there was no committee, and I will tell you what exciting debates. For example, a report to such an important law as this - at least for my understanding, because it really means a strong quality shift in the right direction, this is in the direction of a European comparable administration - is in fact the same large-scale report as where we discussed only one article, namely those supplements that were the subject of the previous discussion. At its 6th meeting, the Committee considered a proposal for a law below. And I must say, we have invited quite a few interested people to participate. After, as I said in the introduction, after such a extensive presentation, of course, it was more or more appropriate for me to tell you something else that I suppose you didn't get in the materials. So what the secretariat has pointed out, which also specifically assesses this dilemma, which Dr. Virant pointed out, is that this asymmetric constitution of this law, namely this first part and the second part, which was also mentioned on the committee, as to whether matters are sufficiently specified, both in the first part and in the second part, and why this is both together. Somehow it ruled out that this was necessary and that it should remain so. In most cases, it has been pointed out that a large quality gain is already the fact that this law is being considered. Indeed, it has always been assumed that the law should be dealt with together with the law on the public sector wage system, which, according to the proposaler's assessment, as well as those of us who discussed these matters would reject the matter and it would not be prudent, would not have a synergistic effect but the opposite. With regard to the draft law itself, the opinion was also forwarded to the Committee by the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities and drew attention to some of the solutions. The Committee has adopted a common position that the proposer should also examine their thinking and their suggestions for the preparation of the second reading law. The representatives of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Secretaries of Slovenian municipalities also participated, in fact, in the law-making process, and also in their comments, as far as we thought appropriate, we have included in the proposals for positions that we have forwarded to the National Assembly. Many words were also addressed to us by a representative of the Union of State and Social Organs of Slovenia. Intension is understandable from his role, even conditioned there in my own way. This is because more emphasis should be given to collective bargaining and the operation of the union and to allow for a certain form of union cooperation. We've made up our minds hereafter. I am correcting myself, and I must also point out that the President of the Supreme Court has also participated in the meeting of our Committee, which he has pointed out to some, in their opinion, of the most inappropriate case, which is the issue of the status of officials and other public servants, in particular for other state bodies, including the judiciary and the judiciary. They believe that their status should be defined more precisely, particularly in this latter category. Well, the representative of the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana stressed in particular this positive effect that the proposal came to the National Assembly in the procedure, and stressed that, when discussing these matters, it is not only possible to discuss on one side the public officials and the system of administration, but also to discuss from the point of view of the users of these services - which, in some way, has already been recorded in my opinion, or also included in the presentation of the proposaler himself. However, it says that the English principle of "think positive" must be followed in this law. In fact, speaking of rationalization, it does not mean that so many and so many will fly on the road, but that those who are here will do better. Before concluding, the Committee adopted my initiative - as a result of this law covering a wide range of citizens, groups, so that there might be misunderstandings, some incorrect lobbyist approaches and the like - to make a public presentation of opinions. So it was today that an invitation was made for the coming week, of course with the assistance of the Ministry, which is the proposer, and of course with the participation of all interested institutions as well as a large number of invited institutions, that - as we have already done - we should prepare a public presentation of the opinions and, of course, give the applicant the opportunity to correct, in so far as anything else has been overlooked, the text for the second reading. Finally, the Committee adopted a decision summarizing the general conclusion that the law is a suitable basis for the preparation of the law for second reading and, of course, calls on you to adopt the Committee's proposed views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat, Mrs. Nevenka Gorec? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? First of all, the representative of the delegation of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, Dr. Miha Brejc, shall have the floor. Here you go! Then the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mr Dušan Vukko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. In the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, we believe that our legal order, our legal regime of public administration is not appropriate, and we see this law as one of the first bright points that suggests that we can take any more important steps in this area than we have taken so far. Last but not least, this is one of those laws that makes a lot of people laugh at us in Europe. For for the past seven, eight years, we have been predicting every year that we will adopt this law. Why is this law so important to Europeans? Probably because I don't know who from the government used to make very negative statements about the Slovenian administration, and this gave rise to unrealistic expectations if the law on public servants is passed in Slovenia, but everything will turn out fine. This is a pure illusion, it's a classic normative idealism that we want to draw attention to, of course. We see this law as an important step forward, and it is not a law that would govern public administration in this sense, I would say, modern European countries. What we have now - I am thinking about other laws - and the government's conduct, in fact, shows that the government itself has no clear concept in this area when, on the one hand, it proposes a law on civil servants, which we consider to be a solid basis, in the same session offers an assessment of the law on classified data, which is scandalous, which is working in the opposite direction, as does the modern administration. But that's when this marriage is due. What else would you like to say about this? This law is certainly, as I have already said, an important step forward. I used this conditioner because I don't know what this law will be like after it's passed. But after what we have before us today, they're good prospects. Of course, we have some serious comments in the parliamentary group. The first comment concerns the kind of strange construction of this law, which has some introductory, general or common part. That's the first 23 articles. The second part is the real law on civil servants. Now, where are those reasons for having one marriage, or rather, that we have a cover in the service law that doesn't belong there? I tried to understand it, read it, even talk to the preparers, but actually I didn't find the right reason. Why is this unification even necessary, why is this tendency after unification if there is no clear argument for it? I fear that this tendency to unify the public sector will lead to the fact that this law will not yet be adopted blindly. And if the debate were to go this way, I would suggest that the first 23 articles be cut off and that this will still be a very correct and fine law on civil servants. However, if the first 23 articles are retained, it can happen that individual parts of the public sector will come forward with protests, czech, and we are no longer public servants. In fact, in this first part, the shortest thing is: everyone who lives or lives from the budget is placed in the status of a public official. This is also said by artists, culturers, doctors, professors and all persons. This is an arrangement that I don't think makes sense. Why do we create some problems and problems if we don't have to? And above all, what do we have in mind if we unify, if we say so, is how we have now united the public sector. We have not changed anything by any standard, and we have not taken any positive steps. We've just set ourselves up with an administrative - bureaucratic barrier that's gonna cause us a lot of trouble. If we look at a few more articles besides the definition of a civil servant. For example, here we have a whole set of principles in this introductory part. He's done quite a bit. But then we have in particular work, so in this second part of the law, one more principle for this area. Why? You will say that - and this is what I am now telling the proponents - because these principles are something special for state officials. But this will not hold up again, because the principle of public competition, political neutrality, the principle of career, the principle of transition, the protection of professional interests and so on, openness to the public, we can also move for the whole public sector! Why is it called the public sector, if not because, among other things, it is also accessible to the public or should be known practically everything about it? So, I don't know, personally, I'm kind of very skeptical of the first 23 members and my colleagues in the parliamentary group. [[...]] There are articles in there that you don't know whether they make sense or not. For example, if you look at Article 21, "public officials have the right to strike, the manner in which the sentence is executed and the restriction of the sentence for the protection of public benefit is laid down by law". Yeah, it's the law, but which one? That's the law we have to make, and so on. So I think that - here I would still, of course, be able to make a number of arguments, but because I have already mentioned them in the debate on the committee more. All I want to do here is point out the futility of this first part. Of course, if he stays in there, he'll stay; I'm just warning you about possible worse solutions. An important question - when I have already mentioned the principles - and which is linked to the entire system of public servants, is the question of the uniformity of the service relationship, which is explicitly absent in the law, and part of this idea is included in the law. I would like to stress that the principle of uniformity in the service relationship allows us to be more flexible in public administration. If we are to achieve this, we should work on it more. Now I wouldn't explain what that means, because I guess we know that. Then the pay system. In view of whether or not Drnovskov's governments have created real chaos in this area over the past eight years, the condition that the payment system is included in this law or that a payment system such as the trade union requirement is prepared for the preparation of this law would mean that this law will not yet be implemented this year because I doubt that the government will be able to solve this problem of public sector wages. If not otherwise, today we have already accepted a small exception in this direction, and I believe it is not the last. So I doubt that it's possible to do that, and that would be a major obstacle, that is, putting the pay system into this law. So once again, it is good that this is not in, because there is a possibility that the quality of the things that this law brings will be introduced earlier. My comment to the bill's proponents is also that they rely a little too much on the old German patterns and the current Austrian patterns and so on when they talk about the importance of systemisation and the concept of jobs. Because I believe that because of the changing environment, the administration will also be subject to major and changes, and the administration will also have to seek within itself resources for greater flexibility of its own. But if we're building a system in one job and an employee in this job, then we're building this system, the employee will always be able to say: I have a decision for this job and I'm not ready to go anywhere else. This will mean, of course, that because this one has a decision, I do not know how much work, of course on the other hand, we will have to look for new jobs and such things. I think it shows that there is still some work to be done on this issue, and I therefore propose that the drafters of this law study this issue, so that, let's say, an employee enters the public administration system and, in accordance with the principle of uniformity of the service relationship, travel from the workplace to the workplace, if I may say so, without great administrative obstacles and without great formal, how can I say, steps to which we are so inclined. We all want to keep it on paper and so on. Of course, this administration can be quite significant on the basis of this law. There will also be problems in defining the status of an official when it comes to more difficult accompanying work. In fact, there you are talking about that in accompanying works someone may, of course, also have the status of an official if such purposes are concerned. This will be very difficult to define. I'm afraid the provision is too loose. I think it's a very good solution or the idea of an internal labour market. However, I recommend that we develop it better so that it really works as a labour market, and finally we will only use the relatively solid information communication technology we have. So that the stock market could be more lively. People who want to switch jobs would sign up for this stock market and those who are looking for them would be notifying their interest in this stock market. And that could be very interesting. And they would certainly be something that no one in Europe has done - so done and would also help all those who deal with human resources that decide on things. Somehow, I apologize if I have overlooked, but nowhere in this law have I seen explicit emphasis on the fact that the knowledge of the Slovenian language is a condition for the performance of the work in - I know that it was in the Systemic Law on Administration; but because we are talking about public servants, an important provision, I think, was meaningful. Let me mention that chapter on business rationalisation. When we read this chapter, it is to understand that it is a rationalisation in the sense of reducing the number of employees. I would like to point out that in organisational science the rationalisation of business does not have the negative sign as it is in this law, but a positive foreshadow. This means that by rationalising administrative or public administration, we are thinking about more efficient work and so on, not how we will reduce the number of employees. So I propose that this term be replaced by another term. Rationalisation certainly isn't the right term, especially since it has such a negative omen. I also think that the idea of at least one member of the official council participating in the competition commissions is highly commendable, but not realistic. These competition committees can be quite a bit, the members of the official council are not so many, and there could also be some problems here. That is why I propose that this assembly be individually reconsidered. I also think it makes sense to re-examine certain things in terms of terminology. For example, talk about human resource management. I don't know, in an area which, of course, I cover, is a more common term of "treatment with human resources" so that, because, the essence of governance is in decision-making - by definition. [[...]] However, it is more of a broad concept, and I think it would be more appropriate, and I suggest that you study it as well. Certainly, what the Secretary of State has said about the minister or the political part of this administrative pyramid should be made more clear in the law. At the top of the administrative pyramid is the minister, and he is always a political person, regardless of whether he is an expert. This, that is, the Minister, brings with him a deputy appointed by the coalition - or the Secretary of State - in short, one of the first steps behind him. I would suggest that this be written even more clearly. How can I say that? To take what the minister brings with him after the end of his term. So that what's happened in the past doesn't happen. In short, in the Group of Members, we believe that this Law on Public Servants, as prepared, is a suitable basis for the continuation of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members, Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u108	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the LDS Group, we are pleased to finally consider the proposal for a law on civil servants at this meeting, as it is an important law in the framework of public administration reform. The fundamental objective of changes in public administration in Slovenia must be to bring the modern public administration closer and transform it into a European comparable system. I would not, of course, mention that the modern public administration must act in accordance with the principle of legality, that it must be directed towards the user and that it must be effective, professional and politically neutral. It is also about the need for the modern administration to provide fast, efficient administrative services, and it must also work in accordance with the principle of economics. An important part of the public administration reform is the modernisation of internal relations and the establishment of a transparent modern service system, which is also subject to the proposed public service law. Slovenia has a built-in public administration service system, which, of course, according to the LDS Group, is in need of transformation. In particular, in terms of the approximation of the standards that Member States of the European Union take into account in the performance and legal arrangements of public servants. Taking into account the shortcomings now in the current legislation of civil servants and knowing the content of the standards applicable in the field of public administration in the countries of the European Union, Members and Members of the LDS Group support the basic objectives and solutions of the proposed law. Certain concerns arose within the parliamentary group on the very scope of this law, as part of the Members expected the applicant to submit a single law for all employees in the public sector. Despite these initial concerns about the scope of the bill itself, the opinion was suggested that the Group of Members should support the solution contained in the bill. That is, that the law in the introductory part defines the concept of a public servant and governs the common organisational issues for the whole public sector, in particular those related to budgetary planning: employment planning, systematisation, conditions for new employment and human resources records. And, of course, that essential part is the second part of the law, which regulates the system of rights and duties of public servants in public authorities, in local authorities and in public bodies, which mainly manage administrative tasks. Given that the main part of this law is intended for another part, of course the question of the appropriateness of the title of the law arises, because we have already presented a different title of the law in the coordination procedure itself. In particular, it seems to us in the LDS Group that it is important that the law contains certain solutions that are not currently in force. Let me write some down. Firstly, the law is fully governed by the public service system of public servants in public authorities and local community administrations and their specific rights and obligations. It seems important to us that the law allows the local community authorities a certain autonomy in the regulation of personal matters with their acts; that the labour relationship of workers in public authorities and local community administrations is as close as possible to the working relationship in the private sector and that, of course, the law also provides for the conclusion of a specific collective agreement. It is also important that the law introduces a higher standard of legal protection for civil servants, as it introduces legal protection before the judicial protection of rights; that the law introduces the position of managers of administrative work and that staff decision-making is largely transferred to the domain of administrative managers; and that officials are reserved for decisions of general importance. It is also irrelevant that the law borders political and official positions and that the circle of political officials is tightened; that the law allows the creation of an official's office, which is linked to his personal trust; that the law introduces a more transparent system of job titles and positions, that the system is also based on a combination of a career and positional system and that the system also allows access to administration from outside, giving a certain advantage, of course, to those who already work as officials. With regard to the question of the selection of officials in the highest positions, which often come in contact and cooperate with officials, there are certain open issues and dilemmas. However, in the Group of Members, we support in principle the proposed concept, which, according to our assessment, is the most realistic. The proposed concept ensures that people with strong professional competence come to key managerial positions, allowing officials to naturally influence the selection of officials in the highest positions. However, I agree with what my colleague Brejc has also pointed out before me that, of course, it will be necessary to examine the relevance of these competitive commissions and of the official council, particularly in terms of whether this will in practice come to life. The proposed law is particularly neutral, as the proposalr has pointed out, so that it can, of course, be used together with the applicable wage ratio law, and should not affect the wages obtained and the open-ended progressive classes of employees in the state administration, in the narrowest sense of the word. In this regard, in the Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation of a law that will regulate the wage relationship across the public sector, as the current wage relations in the public sector generate dissatisfaction and also protests across individual professional groups within the public sector. Although we have MEPs and members of the LDS Group, we consider certain comments on the individual provisions of the law to be appropriate and a good basis for drafting a second reading bill, and we will also support it in the first reading. In the parliamentary group, we also took note of the comments and proposals put forward by trade unions, other professional and professional associations, which we propose to the proposer to examine and, where appropriate, also take into account when preparing the draft law for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u110	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues! I would like to present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. That proposal fulfils the coalition agreed objectives as part of the pre-accession strategy to the European Community, which is also part of the reform of the Slovenian public administration. The aim of the changes of the Slovenian public administration is in fact to transform it into a European comparable system. It is true that the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the approximation of the European Community, is obliged to respect the provisions of the European Association Agreement and the related provisions, but there is no specific obligation for the public administration or within the European Community to establish a uniform system binding on candidates of the European Community. Up to now, the Republic of Slovenia has to some extent built a public administration system, as stipulated by the Law on Workers in State Administration. Therefore, in the reform of public administration, we are not coming from anything but we are reshaping, modernising or modernising the existing system, but not with a novelty, but with a system law that puts public administrations more appropriately into the new constitutional order and concepts of the future European Community. So far, the regulation setting out the situation of employees in the public sector did not cover concepts of principles that define the role of employees and employees in the public sector as a service to society or to citizens. We agree with the view that, during the first and second hearing, a public presentation should be held involving the applicants, all interested public and experts from that area. While the bill provides a good basis for the continuation of the legislative procedure, we believe that a system-wide starting point should be defined more precisely, which would deal with different but adapted issues for bodies other than public administrations. The bill is known not to have been conceived as a system law, but that it essentially addressed the issues of employees in the public administration in a narrower sense and, here and there, intervened in other areas of the public sector. In our view, we should take a different approach. A system law should be drawn up, while a proposal for a law on public servants in the public administration should be the implementation of the system principles specified by the nature of the specific, organisational area of the state administration. We believe that it is necessary to define more precisely the issues of promotion for those civil servants who do not fall within the category of officials. It is also necessary to specify in detail what rules will apply to the advancement of public servants who will not perform more demanding accompanying tasks. It is also necessary to define the use of the terms "officer" and "public servant" when these refer to rights to education, advancement and so on. The draft law gave rise to the specific rights of employees in the public sector. In the current Law on Public Servants, the tax ruling lists a number of rights which represent a de facto lower limit under which negotiators may not go to the conclusion of a collective agreement on non-agriculture. In the previous drafts of that draft law, the two were listed. Perhaps the current concept is due to the view that all specific rights should be covered either in the proposal for a labour relationship law - as a special law - or in the framework of a collective agreement on non-agriculture. In particular, the existing proposal would apply, despite all future conceptual solutions that will be in force in the future labour law, to preserve the protection of older workers, especially in cases where there is a failure to work relationship due to, say, rationalisation. We fear that the current bill may be technically and normatively as far as it is allocated, but in some ways it is an orphan because it has resulted in provisions that were some kind of social security guard. It may have been the case that the bill-maker became overly entrenched, with which he wanted public servants or employees in the public sector to be equal in any way to private sector employees. An important novelty in the bill is the separation between the function of an official and a public servant who progresses on the basis of a career in public administration. In fact, the uncoordinated proposal of the Labour Relations Act makes it difficult to assess the social impact on public sector employees. It would be appropriate to adopt an appropriate law laying down rules, negotiating collective agreements and their obligations for the signatories. For example, in the Swiss Constitution, there is an obligation by constitutional provision to ensure that the signatories respect the collective agreement. It seems to us that the proposer in the draft Law on Public Servants is moving ahead with solutions that have not yet been agreed in the proposal for a labour relationship law, in the sense that a number of specific rights that have been or have been established in the Law on Civil Servants have been omitted and thus indirectly applied the concept that is close to employers and not employees. Finally, we would like to stress that we will support this proposal. For only that, after a series of attempts, it has finally entered the parliamentary procedure, is a great step forward. We hope, however, that that proposal will be significantly improved, particularly after public presentation, and that it will also be more responsive to employees in that sector. We are aware that it is necessary for the State Administration to update, and it is right that they bear the burdens of this title, not only on its employees, but also on other structures that are important for the functioning of the country. The price for this and its shortcomings in the eyes of the public are often paid by the employees in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Aloise Peterle and then by Mr Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u112	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! In the interest of New Slovenia, it is professional, efficient, politically neutral, people-friendly and, to the extent possible, I will not say cheap, but I will say expensive state administration. Maybe an expression of cheap someone would be deceiving. We are convinced that, with regard to all the criteria in our administration, we are missing a lot, and we are convinced that this is an extremely important project, which represents an important part of our transition from non-democratic times to the new quality of democracy, is important because of the implementation of the commitments we have made ourselves in view of our key objective of joining the European Union; it is said that it is important for harmonisation for European legislation. You are aware that the European Commission's report has been three times in a row, almost in the same words, processed this chapter and was critical, and it is expected from Brussels that Slovenia will do what it has done in its own documents and programmes. Secondly, we are aware that there is no doubt that this is an extremely demanding project that requires, in a broad sense, the coordinated functioning of policies, unions, professions, without any guarantee that there will be harmonic conclusions or consensus on key issues because of different interests. This is such a broad field of different interests that it is difficult to expect such an exemplary or coordinated partnership to happen in the end on some issues. This, after all, shows that the government, or more of Drnovsk's governments, has failed to act unwittingly since 1992, when the government gave in to this once, once again pressure, and, as has already been said, things have turned more chaoticly than in an orderly way. Therefore, we are not surprised in this sense by the coordinated view of almost all the debaters that there is something to be done here, although certain elements of the Slovenian public administration may well be praised in comparison with others. The third exception is that it is an extremely late project. Certain solutions have been prepared, and these solutions, in terms of a comprehensive arrangement, including the salary system, have already been prepared since spring 1992, with a change of power that started with a new one or other. It is difficult to take into account the fact that nothing has happened for so long, that only then did Bayuk's government send the first serious package forward and that now the Prime Minister, several times the same, - Dr. Drnovšek - speaks, so we can read in the daily newspaper or predict the struggle of bureaucracy. Not only because we are in opposition, but because this is what I would say is a comment worthy of demagogy, I would like to ask who Mr Drnovšek is predicting the fight against. Under whom, though, has bureaucracy developed if fighting is now to be predicted and so on? In short, we advise the part of the coalition that has special merit in getting a proper mirror and taking a look at it. Then it is also about, I go on with the word 'excellent', an extremely flawed project. He lacks what has been commented on with some measure of truthfulness. It was already - I think that by one of the government's parties - not only on this occasion, but also that it would be very difficult to go forward with this law if it were accompanied by a payroll at the same time. So, here I ask myself, respected colleagues and colleagues, with what trick a great coalition will come to an end with this law: whether it will first adopt principles and some will not know, but others will pretend that they do not know that this is also followed by the so-called tariff part, if we call it that, it will be said 'wait gentlemen, if you have adopted the principles, but now you will make some other decisions'. This is not what I would like on behalf of New Slovenia to do anything on this subject with a trick, although of course the trick is also a political category. Who has only carefully read what has already been said on the official line in this house on the subject of this law, then knows how many holes this law has, how many warnings, open questions, concerns, reservations, critics have been told only within the committee dealing with it. We do not want such a strong coalition to choose the path of delay in such a way that it is now celebrating before the European Union as it prepares a draft new report on the progress of the candidate countries before entry and will see the light of the world in November. Until then, we will sail on the great success that will be said to him, "we started a debate in the National Assembly". Then there will be a so-called public presentation, which we are all calling for, and I fear that this public presentation or public hearing, as it is in the nature of such presentations, will raise more questions than will close them. And I fear that someone will come up with a saving idea, that now there are so many questions open, that the matter will need to be reopened, that there are completely new elements, new aspects, new dimensions, and that it would be good to have this in a particular group, preferably with the participation of the opposition, resolved and prepared a new version of this matter. So, I will be very happy to support this debate as New Slovenia. We do not support this law or the bill as a good basis, but as a sufficient basis for the debate to begin. Here are just some things, some approaches, some solutions that announce different times. However, for the time being, given the shortcomings that are clear, this law shows a greater desire for solutions than the very precise will for solutions. I would also like to say that, unless there is a clear view of implementation, even in a time-consuming sense - and not sufficient, in my view, time-bound definitions in the transitional provisions themselves - then our wishes to join the European Union must also be taken into account in this context. This topic, this project, we have known for years, is one of the most difficult, most important, it is said, the most difficult, and if the European Union is here - and if we do not now go to the question of the cadastral and other matters involved, then this is not an easy matter - so if they do not see that the matter works, it is clear that it will not be enough that this will be accepted to wait for the acts of law. If they do what they do in other laws, then the deadlines will not be respected. I remember the reports on the sub-laws and there we had a greater minus than the laws we adopt in this house; some ministries were extremely weak in the sub-laws. And, of course, Brussels and ourselves are faced with all legal material or material, a decision that governs an area of public life, not just matters that find their way into the Official Journal through our house. So, we regret that the journey to this law, on the one hand, is an inconsistent and unprincipled practice, very familiar with preparation, very many open questions. And I would say this: the political situation has never been so favourable that such a demanding law is passed, as now that the ruling coalition has practically two-thirds of the votes in Parliament. So I guess there's not going to be a debate going on here like, say, yesterday, when we were in Lendava for a few hours, or are we ever in another place? I think this is an extraordinary opportunity for the coalition to prove political responsibility in the event that harmony on the subject of interests is not possible and that either one or those unions may not support a solution, or that one or that institution will not be on the line offered by the government. And I would not like the policy of time distress or the policy of consent, as it is called, to be enforced in this case, as it has been many times before. For we have heard many times, Prime Minister Drnovšek, speaking in this house, especially with regard to foreign policy, if there is no agreement, nothing. So, if the great coalition acts like this, then I don't think this marriage will last much longer. As I said, we will support the first reading, that is, this proposal for a law as sufficient, but not as a good or a good basis. Once again, I would like to point out that we do not want this matter to be treated in any way and on this basis to be dealt with by tricks, not by employees in the public sector, not by users, nor by the European Union, to which Slovenia has committed itself in its own interest to carrying out the reform. And, of course, not as a new answer to the delay if a number of open questions arise. We expect that the government will have different dynamics, at a different pace as it has so far taken care of that urgent conversation and negotiation and try to coordinate with the key partners in this game, and we see the unions in particular. As far as professionalism is concerned, I would like not to repeat the debate that we have been hearing since 1990: either domestic or foreign. I think that the European Union, in one or more other Member States, would say the common acquis communautaires that there are enough established solutions with which Slovenia can help itself and does not invent "hot water" in this area and does not invent a solution that could carry on things that we call monopolies or privileges from old times in the field of state administration, which we know is not so easily a variable and moving aggregate. So, with regard to the profession, we advise that we use our best efforts to provide solutions that are established and known. And once again, I would like to say that I expect the great coalition to take care of the dynamics and to move forward or not to refer to different opinions which will undoubtedly be a fact in the debates following the envisaged adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order not to fall into a trap to praise the marriage in principle, and then to make a very large number of comments on it, or to make a note of it, I would say I was sorry that I would not accept it, I would be very brief in my performance. The law is prepared in a way that can be supported and we support it and also the views adopted. In doing so, we would like to stress the following. We are pleased that the Secretary of State has stressed that in this case we are also selling in many others, we must write large-scale laws because of our own stupidities that we have done before. Second. We also agree that it does not appear to be too much of an illusion about normatism and the adoption of legislation, because it is likely that practice is much more difficult and is shown to devote much more to it. Therefore, thirdly, we propose that, in addition to working on the law, the functioning of the state administration, especially administrative units, may be assessed more specifically. We must say that we hear very many questions on the ground and in cooperation with people, as well as very many criticisms about their operation. Expecting, on the one hand, the situation as it is shown to us, and expecting the marriage to change overnight, I think, is too much of an illusion. Like the next one. We agree with the objectives set, but we would just like to emphasise that two are possible in preparation and implementation or underlining. For the first time, that we are amending or adopting the law, not mainly because of administration and employees in the administration, but because of citizens and citizens and the impact on the realization of their rights, the interests will then have better governance. Secondly, there is no doubt that objectives are justified in respect of the principle of legality and non-political expertise, independence and the like. However, I fear that, in the event of unaltered actual relations, in the event of an unaltered organisation, with the unaltered possibilities and rights vested in the superiors, that there are many mandatory instructions that can be disputed in terms of the exercise of legality, in fact, only a different law on public servants will not regulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinion of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. I respectfully ask that you remove from the slots a card indicating the presence of Members and Members, because I think that there are fewer of us in the Chamber than there are numbers showing. We are moving on to decision-making on the conclusions and positions of the parent’s working body. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will determine the presence - for the first time. There are 33 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is not concluded and cannot make a valid decision. The presence is determined another time. I note that 37 of us are present, which means that the National Assembly is not concluded for the second time and cannot make a valid decision. That's why I'm canceling the session in ten minutes. We'll continue at 5:05. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u116	Dear fellows! Dear colleagues! I respectfully ask you to insert the cards because we determine the presence - the third time. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, absent persons who have not apologized will be punished in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if, due to non-presence, the unavailability of the work of the National Assembly will be prevented. So please, whoever you are here to insert the cards. Those who aren't, maybe they have cards on them to look at. This is the third time I've detected presence! There are 47 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Law on Civil Servants, first of all, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion on the positions prepared by the parent working body and recorded in the report of the working body, on pages 8, 9 and 10. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for positions of the parent working body. We're voting! 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. Thank you very much to the representative of the government, Secretary of State Dr. Virant. Representatives of the secretariat, too. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day - the first draft of the Public Collection Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We have been joined by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Bojan Bulgarian, whom I welcome and ask him whether he wishes to present a proposal for a law on public gatherings? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Sorry I'm late. The proposed law on public gatherings in a new, slightly more modern way regulates one fundamental constitutional right, the right to public assembly, which is closely linked to other very important rights, freedom of speech, conscience and everyone else, and therefore we felt it was very important that we modernise the law, change it. The old law was adopted in other times, containing a number of provisions that were written in these ancient times, including general principles that were still part of the previous system. It was therefore important that we change in this way only some of the technical little things, but in fact the whole concept of the law. In fact, the new philosophy of the law is that it is essentially a more liberal, democratic approach to the concept of public gatherings and, somehow, the principle is that if there is no particular reason to collect restrictions, in principle it is permissible to collect, with certain exceptions, which are more precisely defined in the law, when the organiser of a public event or meeting must obtain a permit or when it only needs a written application. This is also an important news. For certain gatherings it is sufficient to apply, for others, such as gathering, when it comes to more people, for gathering, because there is a danger of endangering public regulation, public security, etc. This organizer of such a meeting also needs permission. In the meantime, many important conventions in this area have also been amended in Europe, so that the law also tries to cover this. One such is the Convention on Violence and Unworthy Conduct of Audiences at Sports Events, in particular at football matches, and a number of other changes. As I mentioned earlier, one very important change is that the law distinguishes between application and authorisation. This makes the process much simpler, somehow trying to deform it. The notification also requires that even when a person has to declare a meeting and does not report it in due time, this does not mean that the meeting will be banned, but simply pays a certain penalty, fine, sanction. Of course, it's different when you're allowed, you have to get a permit. However, other guardians who are authorised are that the law introduces a very fast procedure here, unlike that regulated by the ZUP, in the Administrative Procedure Act, which means that the deadlines are extremely short. The administrative unit that decides on the licence must respond very quickly. The deadlines are very short, 24 hours, three days, and the complaint is also very short. The next important change is also a change of competence between the different authorities involved in this game. On the one hand, we have the police, on the other side of the administrative unit. The police only accept the application, but they make a substantive decision about the administrative units when it comes to the permit. Once the authority has determined that an authorisation is required, the role of automatic administration shall be to proceed to the administrative unit. In order to bring this solution to life, we have also foreseen a six-month transitional period within which administrative units and police would somehow adjust and start to exercise their powers differently. Another very important liberal arrangement or arrangement that is intended to greatly facilitate the collection is a provision which provides that collectors of different, if you want, religious organisations, societies, economic enterprises, sports companies and others, if they organise activities that fall within their typical work circle and if they do so in their business premises, they do not need a special authorisation. The law is very comparable to other comparable arrangements. You have an overview at the beginning of the explanation. Most European countries have a comparable law and are also in line with the European conventions as far as they are concerned. During the debate in the Committee and in the Council of State, we have received some suggestions, which I hope we have responded satisfactorily so far. However, if you have any further questions or comments, we also have some starting points in place so that certain minorities may be further altered. I would, I don't know, maybe just stop here and wait for your questions so I wouldn't be too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, chairman of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. Since the proposer's representative was there, let me stay here too. The Committee considered this bill at its 5th meeting. I don't know why I'm saying this, but it's always written in the introduction. I must say that in the debate the following has been highlighted: it is a law that is needed already because it replaces a very old law, a law from, as has been said, from old times. The Committee also considered all the words of the secretariat and all their warnings, so the Committee included them in its report or in its proposal for views and instructed the proposer to examine this in advance of the preparation of the second reading law. Some issues were also highlighted in the debate, which should be more precisely addressed in the law when it is ready for a second reading. This is the arrangement or role of events that have humanitarian content or are of a charitable nature. In fact, it has been noted that Members have been accompanied by noise on several occasions by such events and it is therefore necessary to consider an appropriate way of obtaining the consent of the landowner or manager. In the second question, the method and precision of the entities to assess the relevant psycho-physical abilities of the director was highlighted. In fact, in the law itself, that's the term. Of course, since this is a difficult task, it is not possible to expect an administrative officer or a police officer to find it out on the spot. In addition, MEPs have pointed out that many provisions, including individual sectoral laws, deal with this issue and therefore consider that these obligations should be brought to the attention of Members. So we're supposed to get some catalogue of all the obligations that such an event organizer has. With regard to the need to provide evidence of the technical integrity of devices or the safe use of objects, consideration should be given to the meaning and scope of the devices. Indeed, a number of cases have been mentioned where it is not really known how this legal provision would be satisfied. With regard to the provision that the competent authority shall inform the competent police station without delay of the authorisation, it has been stressed and I also think that it is in the conclusion that it would suggest that the inclusion of the police unit should also be considered. Actually, they're not all over the police station, but they're also small units. Well, on the basis of this general discussion, the Committee notes that the law is a suitable basis for second reading and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it. Of course, on the basis of all the discussions we have had, the committee has drawn up the views that I propose - because I have taken them more or less after the content - to support them. Finally, the Committee adopted an additional decision that, when you receive the law, the organiser should also, as I said earlier, prepare a catalogue of all the obligations that organisers have in organising these events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u121	Madam Vice President, the Honorable National Assembly! The law we have before us is one of those laws that governs a certain principle of democratic principles in our country. As the Secretary of State has already said, the right to peaceful assembly and public assembly is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by all democratic societies. The importance of this right is also essential in allowing the exercise of certain other rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression, freedom of speech, public speaking, confession of faith and other definitions of individuals. This means that restrictions on the right to public assembly can in fact limit certain other rights enshrined in the Constitution. If we take a quick look at the marriage, I have to say that there's not much to tell, but the problem is that the details are in small things. And here we would like to draw attention to some of these traps that are recorded in this law. If we take a closer look, we can see that some concepts are very loosely written and allow, we could say, the arbitrary use of powers. Such a concept is, for example, an obstacle to public transport. Therefore, if an official considers that public transport could be hampered, he may refuse or refuse to allow such a public meeting. We imagine that these matters should be written more clearly and more decisively in the law. It also states in one of the articles: "the competent authority may prohibit a meeting or an event even in cases where the organiser..." and then states in the law: "he has not shown sufficient measures to ensure order" and then states: "safety, life and health, then participants, environmental protection, security, property etc. "So, what are sufficient measures? So it is also an opportunity for an official to make this arbitral decision in a purely bureaucratic manner and to enable the organisers and the participants to do so. Since the law deals with the exercise of the Constitution of guaranteed fundamental rights, the basic objective of legal regulation in this area must be to prevent such exercise of those rights, which would constitute a genuine threat, such as protection against the spread of infectious diseases or the like. The regulation of this area therefore requires solutions that do not constitute unnecessary obstacles, both to those who appear in the role of organisers and to those who, in order to realize their interests, are only actively or passively participating in public meetings or public events. The proposal for a law on public gatherings, in our opinion, does not fully follow these objectives, so it should be supplemented or more clearly written in some places. For the government must be aware that the permission of meetings and events is not an act of its good will but of its duty. Its duty is to allow and enable its citizens to exercise their fundamental rights in larger groups of people. While the law does not directly restrict the right to public assembly, but gives the State through its administrative authorities, I could say that some kind of "bianco" is of the opinion that, due to loosely defined provisions, they can arbitrarily restrict the exercise of this fundamental constitutional right. This is contrary to the constitutional principle of legality. I believe that something similar has been said by the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy that there has also been a debate in this direction, that some of the provisions laid down in this law should be made clearer. The rule of law must specify the permitted intensity of State interference in the exercise of public assembly rights. This State interference intensity must be proportionate to the degree of threat to other protected values which could be caused by the exercise of the right to public collection. This law also introduces a new principle for the submission of applications for such events, namely that the organiser must submit the application to the police, then the police send it to the administrative unit, and then send it back to the organiser or the investor, the police. So I don't know if such a principle makes sense, because it seems to us that this procedure will still be of the greatest benefit to the post office that will carry this information from different levels, so I am and there. The deadlines are very short, so we propose that this procedure be regulated by a slightly more rational and more meaningful starting point. What we welcome in this law is that it is anticipated - I hope that the government will not correct this by means of an amendment until the second reading, so that no fee is required for the submission of such applications. This has not been the case until now, but all organisations, including humanitarian societies and other companies, have had to pay a certain fee, which has been prescribed. In addition, our Group proposes to the National Assembly that it also adopt a supplementary decision in this first reading, which is the Decision you have reached, but allow me to present it briefly. [[...]] "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also include in the text of the draft law for the second reading in the text of the draft law a provision which would exclude the application of the law on public assembly for religious rituals, which is in accordance with local customs", so I repeat, in accordance with local customs, "shall take place at religious holidays also outside the premises designated for religious activity". In explanation, we stated that in the proposal for a law on public gatherings, the government did not provide for the organisation of traditional religious celebrations, such as processions and other religious rituals. The celebrations in question have been a part of our culture for centuries, and it is therefore unacceptable that such events should be reported at police stations as opposed to the current procedures. We believe that it is unnecessary bureaucracy and an intervention into some of the already established and acquired rights, which are already under way, could have been said for centuries. The main criterion determining which religious rituals are not subject to the law on public gatherings should be local customs. Local customs are a sufficiently flexible and broad legal concept suitable for use in different environments and living situations, while also preventing the arbitrary behaviour of both state representatives and celebration organizers. These are our initiatives, our views on this law. We ask the proposer to take them into account as much as possible and the National Assembly to support this complementary decision of the Public Assembly Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Based on the fact that the right to peaceful assembly and public assembly is one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by all democratic societies, it is logical, of course, that these and such rights are guaranteed by the relevant law by the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the law is in line with the rights to peaceful assembly and public assemblies, as set out in Article 42 of our Constitution and referring to many international instruments. Statistics testify to the right that Slovenian citizens often use because we have almost 10,000 public events a year. In the last ten years or in the decade of our state autonomy, however, the number of public events notified fell by one third, with three times the number of public meetings allowed. This certainly shows, probably, the increasing discipline of our citizens and organizations. Information on violations of the rules in force so far also shows the need for a more thorough and comprehensive legal regime in this area. We believe that the proposed law, with its provisions, is in this direction. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed law and possible amendments, as well as additions supported by the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u125	Your Honor! In the Social Democratic Party, we fully support and express the need to adopt a new, appropriate law regulating the right to peaceful assembly and public assemblies. In 1973, and in 1990, the amended Law on Public Meetings and Public Events was completely inadequate and time-consuming due to changes in the last decade and changes in the appearance of individuals and legal entities. We therefore fully support the objectives and principles of the proposed law in our parliamentary group. We will, however, advocate the adoption, through legal procedure, of such a law that will allow and in particular limit in no way the rights to peaceful assembly and public assemblies, which is fundamental human rights and freedoms, the political right guaranteed by all democratic societies. Moreover, we are convinced that it is the exercise of the right and freedom of expression, speech, religion and other definitions of individuals as well as of social and political groups. We will strongly oppose any attempt to restrict these rights, which would be contrary to Article 42 of the Constitution, which restricts or allows the restriction of these rights by law only if the security of the State, public security and protection against the spread of communicable diseases so requires. We will oppose any unnecessary obstruction of active and passive participants in public meetings. The monitoring or role of the State must be conducted with a clear separation, thereby ensuring the constitutional right and integrity of all those exercising the right to assembly as a fundamental human right. It is because of everything that we have said that the restrictions set out in Article 6 of the legislative proposal are too restrictive, too vague, too harsh and incomprehensible. Obstacle to transport, public transport as stated in Article 6 of the legislative proposal is in our situation such a broad definition and such a general definition that it is limited in practice to any form of assembly or allows the competent authority to prohibit any meeting or event on the basis of this provision. Therefore, such a provision is unacceptable for our Group of Members. The same applies to the prohibition of holding meetings or outdoor events in the immediate vicinity of facilities protected under special rules, as referred to in Article 6, if the meeting or event could impede the protection of such facilities. Due to our Slovenian specification, the comparative arrangements outlined by the applicant in the annex to the proposal are not and cannot be automatically acceptable and cannot be easily summarised. We are of the opinion that the very way of protecting the facilities in our situation is sufficiently restrictive and that these restrictions do not need to be explicitly written into the law. The third paragraph of Article 6 of the legislative proposal is also totally unacceptable and too wide and too restrictive. This provision, too, is too vague and allows administrative authorities all too much manoeuvre in terms of allowing or restricting such an important right as the right to collect. That is why it is totally unacceptable for our Group of Members. As a result of everything we have said about Article 6, we have also drawn up two complementary conclusions in this direction - which I am sure will receive your attention and support. We also have comments on some of the controversial provisions in other articles that are also necessary for amendments, and we will advocate that these changes be enforced. In particular, here is a comment on Article 10 where it is necessary, in accordance with the opinion of the competent committee, to define the psycho-physical properties of the organiser. Then we have a provision of Article 13, which must also be reconsidered because it speaks in the first indent of the need to apply for collective sports in the First National League. We are of the opinion that it is not advisable for all league competitions to put in one bag and therefore create unnecessary costs for organisers. Similarly, paragraphs 31 and 32, which deal with undeclared meetings or events, and in this regard, in Article 35 of the said costs of police enforcement and control of such meetings. Before I conclude, I would also like to say that the opinion of the parliamentary group, despite those comments, is such that the legal text is sufficient for the continuation of the legal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Franci Rokavec, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. In fact, I will focus only on the question of Article 14 of the Act. Indeed, it is the implementation of Article 160 of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. In fact, by now some administrative units have already requested the event operators to postpone the authorisation of SAZAS in accordance with Article 160, and others do not in any way require the music event operators to do so. In practice, however, the organisers of these events, who obtain permission from the administrative unit, think that they have also obtained permission to perform the musical event and, of course, also copyright. Of course, you have two questions to do with this. In fact, in the case of infringements, the organisers are then subject to very high penalties. Administrative units, however, do not have clear instructions on how to implement the copyright law. In some ways, there is a discrepancy which is likely to be settled in Article 14 so that the organisers of the music events in the conditions for obtaining the licence may also obtain permission from SAZAS. Here I would like to ask the bill's proposer, the government's representatives, to have this disagreement examined and settled in some way in the subsequent procedure of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Trofenik, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u129	Two aspects, or my fault, are in this marriage. Very briefly. First time he talks about sports events. I understand the proposaler's concern about the dangers of some sports events, but it is an unacceptable criterion for the first national leagues: once an event decision at the level of the first national league and for all others a notification or notification. You know, between sports industries and the pressures of competitions in these industries, there are so many differences that, say, the first state league in table tennis or sports dance, if I say so, is something else than the first state league in football or hockey, where there is a potential danger of riots and threats to life and property. And, of course, if we were to break this down further, we might find that the objective danger in the 10th village football league is significantly greater than in the first league in table tennis, and I deliberately caricature. This criterion is simply not acceptable. But it's not acceptable because of another aspect. We give a chance to red tape, one or the other, to decide what to do with the competition. What if it does not issue or issue a negative decision is justified or unjustifiable? What are the consequences for the competition, that is, not playing the game and other consequences? On the other hand, the proposer has no solution to those dangers or cases that pose the greatest danger to sports guests - visiting fans. All responsibility is transferred to an event organiser who doesn't even know - perhaps only the police - whether guest fans or escorts will come, and they pose a threat in a conflict situation with the local audience, not the event itself. The second aspect, which I think is flawed, is total - forgive the expression - the ignorance of local communities in public events. I understand the intent for as liberal a relationship as possible. Local communities only appear in this game if they own space or land, but this is not the most important. In fact, some public events have major consequences for the area for which local communities are responsible, both in terms of the conduct of economic public services, the maintenance of order, I mean, cleanliness and similar things, as well as some others. I'll show you on a specific case. The organiser must obtain the consent of the owner of the land. Thus the land represents or is situated in the narrowest protection zone of the water catchment area. The local community will not even know that - if the owner of the land in the special area has allowed and agreed - there is some assembly with such or other consequences. I think it is essential to speak about these aspects, or in particular, as Article 12 says in the first paragraph, that there is no need to report the event to companies and independent entrepreneurs who have events in their registered activities in their business premises. At the end of the week, I would suggest that we take a look at Slovenia, what happens in some nightclubs, some guesthouses, where on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays there are such or other musical events, different from during the week, and as a result also a few hundred parked cars on private property, on public property, and directly endanger traffic, traffic safety and public roads. As I read this provision, in such cases at all, the consequences will, of course, be in the area of the safety of road users, the cost of the implementation of economic public services in the broadest sense of the word, or even the threat of certain goods, as I have already indicated there in one case. So I expect the proposer to consider this issue for second reading and to include it appropriately in the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u131	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Public Collections is, in my opinion, a good basis for drafting a second-reading law. But there are certain shortcomings. I myself wanted to point out that local communities were completely excluded from this law. Among other things, the Law on Local Self - Administration provides that, of course, congregations exercise oversight of the events. So it's either some non-conformity, or we fix the law on local self-government, or here, of course, we give the municipalities a chance to cooperate. These are events that sometimes, of course, cannot pass through the congregation’s agreement. In the past, practice has shown that informal arrangements have taken place between municipalities and administrative units in which they have agreed to give some agreement, of course, that the congregation agrees with the organization of an event. Then we have a problem that the law in many parts is too limited, so, of course, in the procedures for the exercise of licences, especially when it comes to the issue of licences, we allow too much discretion to the administrative authorities. If I may point out, I think that the third paragraph of Article 14 where, in the past, under the legal provision, proof of the technical integrity of the devices or the safe use of the objects has been applied to anything that has occurred to anyone. And it took various A-tests to wear and so on. It is necessary to examine whether any sub-legislative provision can clearly and unequivocally determine which evidence or devices are involved. Another way, of course, to narrow the discretion of the official who will decide the matter. It is good that the law has left the application to police units, but here I would warn - if we went in this direction to approach people, users - then let us also write in this law that it is not only the police station that is responsible for the application, but also the police departments. And where the state has abolished police departments and we have only police offices, the police office may also be responsible for this application. Because in this way we have not brought anything closer to the public administration to the users. And if, of course, a citizen or an organizer still has to come in with a car and report an event. Consideration should be given to the relevance of the provision of Article 35, which refers to the cost of payment to the police. Here, of course, there will be a gap between what is the duty of the police to protect people's lives at events and what is to be paid. Such a diction, as it is now, seems to me to be allowing too much discretion to police stations or to a police station commander who will decide to send a police patrol to some fireman's party, where he usually sings his fists or something else, and then charges this fire company expenses. It is necessary to clearly distinguish for which events the normal police work framework is exceeded. Otherwise, of course, we can again increase the costs to those who organize these events, traditional or whatever. These are the key comments that I see personally. I expect, of course, that the applicant will examine them and, if possible, take them into account when preparing the draft law for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! That's all I need to explain. All of these debates, which contain proposals by Members to the extent that you want the Government to take them into account in the preparation of the draft law for second reading, you have at this stage, where we are now, until the end of the general debate, the possibility to submit them in the form of a supplementary proposal to the position of the home labour body to decide on them by the national assembly. Otherwise, only your wishes, which the applicant will not accept as complementary proposals or an accompanying proposal to the positions of the home labour body in the national assembly, will not really take into account your wishes. So much so that we don't delay needlessly. In view of the fact that it is 6:00 p.m., respected colleagues and colleagues, I ask that, if they want their proposals to be approved in the National Assembly, we can still have them on the table tomorrow before deciding on the supplementary proposals. Allow me before we conclude - given that the infrastructure committee is at 6 p.m., otherwise we would continue to work - just a notice. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will continue the meeting by discussing agenda items 27 and 28 and then move on to agenda item 6; the assembly will then consider the end of agenda item 16 and continue on the agenda. Thank you very much for your attention! Thank you to the government very much and good night!
