ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! By witnessing the continuation of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Victory by Jelinčič nobles, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Sam Bevk, Bogdan Barovič, Jožef Kavtičnik, Franci Rokavec, Ivan Kebrič, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Branko Janc, Anton Partljič, Peter Levič, Valentin Pohorec, Dorijan Maršič and Andrej Fabjan. I'm correcting the statement, Mr Branko Janc is among us. The Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and Nova Slovenije announced the obstruction at the point currently under consideration. Since we will be able to detect presence, please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. May I have your attention, please? Next time, we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall, so please press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. There are 47 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting. I very much welcome the representatives of the government between us. For today's follow-up to the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we still have a suspension of the 7th item of the agenda, namely the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003. Just a reminder that, in connection with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, where four other items of the agenda are open, under Rule 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure, after the end of today's session, I will propose that these items be transferred to one of the future meetings of the National Assembly, so that we can conclude the 10th regular meeting of the Assembly and allow the following 11th meetings to be convened. So much for the notice. We are in the second draft law on the implementation of the budget, on page 7 of the amendments of 4.12.2001. We must vote on Article 14 as a whole. We are therefore moving on to a decision on Article 14 as a whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 16 and the two amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? The first vote didn't work. We decide the second time on the second amendment to Article 16. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. They voted 4, 40 against. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 16 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 17 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the SDS and New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. They voted 3 to 41. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 20 and the two amendments to this Article and on the amendment to the amendment of the Government to Article 20, which is proposed by Mr Janez Podobnik, and this amendment is not in the amendment, but is on the table. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Yesterday, as part of the general debate, we had already talked about the content of Article 20. First of all, I would like to say that, of course, I will support both the amendment of the government and the amendment of the committee. I would like to inform you or point out that the Government's amendment clearly provides for a budget reserve of EUR 9 billion in 2002 of EUR 38 million. The appropriations of the budget reserve shall also be used for implementation in accordance with the programmes adopted by the Government and shall be listed in the five laws. These are all the laws that have plagued elementary disasters over the past three years. Yesterday I tried to convince my colleagues and colleagues in the debate that when the law dealt with the consequences of public interest, especially in 2000, the Council was also trying to resolve the issue of soil climbing. According to the information I have, I assure you that they are credible, there were several very large beaches in addition to many small, smaller beaches in Slovenian municipalities. Especially here is the beach in the upper Savina Valley, the beach in Lokavac near Ajdovščina and, of course, especially the law that saved the beach under Mangrt. And the real fact is that there will be quite a few Slovenian municipalities, which, under the 2000 law, were also written in the material when we adopted the law, and somehow expected to receive state money and be able to cover their beaches, beaches in their areas to literally hang. Therefore, on the basis of these data, I have proposed the following amendment to add point 5, which reads: "To implement the remediation of the effects of landslides on local infrastructure, which are contained in the national programme to address the effects of landslides on local infrastructure." Here I would like to remind you that at the same time when these laws are adopted, we have entrusted the Government with the preparation of a national programme to address the effects of the landslides on local infrastructure. The government has a lot of material on this subject. And the national programme can prepare very quickly. And in my opinion, this amendment is not contrary to the purpose of this Article, because paragraph 1 states that, in accordance with the programmes accompanied by the Government, they can also be used for implementation and will then be written "to remedy the effects of the landslides which will be contained in the national programme to remedy the effects of the landslides". I would ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Given that the government has opposed all those amendments that would revive the government's manoeuvre, which is quite broad in this law, I would like to know what the government's opinion is like in this case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, Mr Jerič, then I'd like to give the floor to a representative of the government. Mr. Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government! I will support all three amendments to this Article 20. Why? This explanation, given by Mr Podobnik, I think it stands. In the subton it is possible to read that the government or the state has decided to carry out the rehabilitation of only so-called large beaches, which are quite a few in Slovenia, for which it is necessary to provide quite large financial resources. It is also true that in explanation, I do not think one thing holds because we do not yet have a national programme in the field of beaches. However, the requirement of Parliament in the previous reference was to prepare this national programme as soon as possible and, of course, also to provide deadlines for the implementation of the rehabilitations, both large and small beaches. However, in order to decide that the rehabilitation of small beaches will have to be carried out by local communities, I think it is not fair and impossible for local communities to expect it. In one small congregation there is also a small reptile, I will say, a great problem and the local community alone will not be able to repair it. That's one reason. The second reason is to remind again - and here is the leadership of Parliament - that we will get to the law on permanent rehabilitation as soon as possible. We have a second reading of the law, we have reached it, and whenever there is a major and small natural disaster in Slovenia, we need to adopt intervention laws and thus burden the legislative process or the national assembly. I hope that we will make this effort to get to the law on permanent rehabilitation as soon as possible and that we will also adopt a national swimming programme on the basis of law, and that is then the basis for implementing the rehabilitation of individual beaches in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members? Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I will also support the amendment myself, but for a fundamental reason, because I think that the government, with its amendment, is unprincipled and even, in my understanding of the budgetary reserve, it is not right to take on the budgetary reserve of the known liabilities from previous years. I understand the purpose of this budget reserve, that it is intended to deal with the consequences of the elementary accidents that will take place, and that, as I personally understand the law on public finances and other legislation, the known budgetary obligations set out in this title, which are due to the laws adopted, should be covered by specific items - that is also on the basis of the committee - and that is where the government is making room for itself. I respect the embarrassment with the amount of resources available, but I have a calm conscience, so I will support these amendments, although they are not fundamentally consistent in the content that should be carried out in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry I called too late, but I'm going to say something similar to what Mr Jerič said. I will support all three amendments. The last one proposed by Mr Podobnik, however, will be supported because it reminds me of the long years when we solved the problem of the terrestrial beach on the other side of the border crossing of Neblo in Italy. For several years, because of the mayor's caprices, the road to Italy was closed. These are consequences when something is left to the local community, which is unable to do great work, because, as Mr Jerič said, even a small beach can do great work for a small congregation budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Well, I think I can now give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mrs. Helena Kamnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Perhaps first an explanation of the article contained in the law on the implementation of the budget. It is the fact that special laws are those referred to in this Article. And these special laws are passed on the basis of the Public Finance Act. They are explicitly cited because the government also understands the budgetary reserve in the way that Mr Trofenik said the budget reserve should serve to cover the costs or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters in the year in which natural disasters occur. They should then commit these to the burden of each ministry or to the financial plan of each ministry, which covers certain matters. Thus, the law on the implementation of the budget in the original text was prepared. It has subsequently been shown that it would be appropriate, as a result of these four laws, which are expected to be fully implemented in 2002, with the exception of the Soča Act, to remain in 2002 with the old method of using the budget reserve and then to approach a different method of resolution in 2003. And this is a way that we fully support and Mr Trofenik has also said. For this reason, we believe that the amendment you have proposed does not actually meet the conditions in the sense that this is not a specific law, in terms of the law on public finances. In particular, the Public Finance Act clearly states how to recover or how funds from the budget reserve are provided to cover the costs or to remedy the consequences of accidents. They are provided up to 150 million with government conclusions and over 150 million with specific laws. And special laws are these laws that we have listed here. In my view, such a solution is not acceptable from a systemic point of view. If it turns out to be necessary to resolve this matter in a way that I believe will be a dimension that is greater than 150 million, it is necessary to draw up a special law in view of the current dictatorship of the Public Finance Act, which will remedy this issue and will then come into consideration or draw on this budget reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. First, Mr Trofenik, then Mr Podobnik. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the explanation of the amendment, my colleague, Mr Podobnik, and as stated by the Secretary of State, I ask whether it is not possible to understand point 3 of the Government's amendment that - unless we leave out the year 2000 - this content proposed by Mr Podobnik is also covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for your answer. Do you know what the problem is? The problem is the government's decision to address only reptiles, which require more than 150 million tolerans, on the basis of the 2000 law. And now I ask you, is this a fair approach? According to the information I have, 34 Slovene municipalities, from Haloz to Tolminsky, have all the permits, some have even signed construction contracts, that they have already gone with their work of municipal money to rehabilitate these beaches, because they were firmly convinced that they would be able to obtain part of the money on the basis of the 2000 law. Here's the problem. But it is true that the dimension of some beaches was large, especially for the beach in Lokavac, which was such a dimension that only this beach, I think, would require more than 300 million tolars. Therefore, some other investments have fallen out. Also, on the basis of the discussion by my colleague Trofenic, I believe that this principle, in fact, to cover the laws that have been passed in recent years, also because of the budgetary difficulties we have - a more corrective way would be to incorporate the contents of these laws into the departmental ministry, but we know what the situation with the budget - personally, I do not think that it is contrary to the budgetary reserve system, if we write down, of course, that we will be able, within the scope of the possibility - the government will be able to implement if this amendment is adopted, within the framework of the financial options - but there is a safeguard that has its weight. So it's about the beaches that will be contained in the national programme, and there's also a security guard for the government. But Slovenia is very plentiful, I think there are 2,600 beaches in Slovenia. I am sure that this amendment will also encourage the government to prepare this national programme. And if the government will then assess that a special law is needed under such a national programme, it will prepare it. I believe, however, that the existing amendment is essentially just an upgrade to point 3, Comrade Trofenik. Unfortunately, point 3 will only be fully covered by the rehabilitation of the three or four largest Slovenian beaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the introductory phrase of Article 20. We say that the budget reserve is set at EUR 9 billion, the budget reserve funds are also used for implementation in accordance with the programmes adopted by the Government. This is also said for the implementation of these four laws, but also for all others, i.e. for the rehabilitation of all other accidents. Nowhere is it said that it is not possible to make use of these programs, that is, by covering the funds from the reserve. So I still feel that this amendment is not part of the law itself. However, if you believe that it is necessary to commit the Government to prepare a programme for the rehabilitation of the landslides and these smaller beaches, then it makes sense to take a decision under the law on the implementation of the budget and to instruct the government to prepare it. And only then will it be a condition that - it is not necessary to write, because already with the law itself there will be a need for these funds to be included in the use of the reserve - but only after the law has been adopted will the condition be met that this can be ensured.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Just for a little while and for the last time. I agree with the State Secretary's argument, with one exception. In fact, I formally understand that the amendment has its weight and potential right in this article. I don't see the opposite. And I suggest we accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Just one more thing. The law under point 3 has not yet been fully exhausted. That's what I said yesterday. According to the value determined by the law, that is 10 billion and 150,000 tolars, 869 million are still unexploded. And I don't see any reason why we shouldn't use this tool to address the consequences that Mr. Sponik mentions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm afraid not, Secretary of State. Most of this money will only go for the rehabilitation of three reptiles, while 34 reptiles will fall out. That's the problem. This information is reliable.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we will decide on the amendment under 1, of which the committee is the proposer, then on the amendment to the amendment, of which Mr Podobnik is the proposer and then back to the review of the amendments, sub-order number 2, where the amendment of the government is. We are voting first on the amendment under 1, of which the committee is the proposer. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 has been adopted in the review. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by Mr Podobnik. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. This is the second time we've voted on the amendment. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 26 votes against 15. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are also deciding on the Government's amendment under order number 2 in the review. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the 20th whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 22 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce to you a letter from the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, that the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, in view of its disagreement with the content, procedure and procedure of the management of the draft law on the implementation of the budget for the years 2002 and 2003, also announces the obstruction of parliamentary work under this point. Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 23 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 24 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 26 and the amendment of the New Group's and SDS's parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 37. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. Can I have your attention, please? The second time, we will vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 26 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 27 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 28 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on the article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 30 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. The vote was 44.) [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the 31st Article and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. Can I have your attention, please? For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 31. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 31 has been adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 36 and the seven amendments to this Article. Under number 1 is the amendment of the new Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia; under order number 2, the amendment of which the proposed amendment is a group of Members with first-signed Richard Beumann, with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, is a vote on amendments under points 3 and 5 irrelevant; the amendment proposed by the amendment under number 3 is a committee under 4 government, under 5 is an amendment of which is proposed by Jože Ašič, and under number 6 is an amendment of which the finance committee is the proposer, and under number 7 is also the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thus, the fifth paragraph of Article 36 in practice means the abolition of the giro accounts of the smaller parts of the municipalities, in short, of local communities, especially those local communities which have legal status and have so far had giro accounts. The matter is, of course, unacceptable and, therefore, I have proposed with my colleagues an amendment proposing the deletion of this paragraph. While I announced the possible withdrawal of this amendment yesterday on the committee, since all the signatories to this amendment disagree with the withdrawal, of course the amendment remains in the procedure and will be decided by the State Assembly. I myself have made a personal decision, after reflection, to support this amendment. If the amendment has not been adopted, however, I would suggest that colleagues and colleagues support both the amendments, both the amendment of the committee and the amendment of my colleague, Auschwitz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I would first support the thinking of Comrade Beumann. The basic text we have received from the bill is a dangerous force because it would literally encourage ideas or desires for further membership. And even personally, I don't think it's in line with the law on local self-government, because I don't know what legal subjectivity would be like if a legal person doesn't have a jury account. That is why I support the amendment of the committee that deals with this properly. And, on the one hand, it provides an integrated municipal budget, I stress what has not been done so far, because only transfers from the municipal budget to the budgets of local, narrower parts of the local community. This is said in local communities and vice versa, transfers for investments by local communities into the municipal budget if it was an investor of the municipality or a local community. And so far we have not had an integrated budget or a transparent one in the congregation. That is why this solution, which is proposed here, is a new quality, and I therefore propose that we support or vote on the amendment of the committee that deals with it in an corrective manner. But I would like to use the first amendment to warn the government - I apologize if my discussion is going to be a little outside. Personally, I think that, with - and for that, I would also like to take up - with the adoption of the state budget, we should actually accept three documents. First, a short marriage to talk about appropriate spending on a person in the congregation. Then the state budget, which is the result of this. And third, the law on the implementation of the budget. See, if a government proposal on principality or appropriate spending were to fall on a citizen, the budget would fall as a result. And we are in a situation where the budget is adopted and now I am speaking wickedly, let's say that in some way or adopt the first amendment proposed here and talking about appropriate consumption, the budget is actually falling. I do not know why the proposer himself is putting himself in this danger and does not propose when adopting a budget first a law on adequate consumption, which would probably have three articles alone, then the budget, which is partly the result, at least one part, and at the end of the law on the implementation of the budget. When we wrote the law or amendments to the law on the financing of municipalities in 1998, it was so foreseen, but the proposaler never accepts it, and I am afraid that this will happen to him once in a while, so that, as a result, his "post festival" budget will fall. Thank you very much. Therefore, I will not support the first amendment for substantive reasons, of course, but I will support the amendment of the committee and the governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! First of all, I would like to explain one correction, because under point 5 of these amendments, it is written 'amendment to the amendment of the committee', which is of course not substantively true, but this is a separate amendment which will be taken into account if the amendment proposed by Mr Beumann is not voted on. Of course, I personally agree with the amendment proposed by my colleague Beumann, because this amendment puts the matter on a pure footing and at least during the implementation of this law will not be affected by the local community's view of the performance of its tasks and of the current role and also the status they have in individual municipalities, probably in most municipalities where they have legal status. In the event that this does not happen, because the committee has drafted its amendment, I propose that the amendment that I have tabled to this article, which speaks of the fact that the funds that local communities acquire for specific programmes cannot be seized if the municipality is in trouble and has a blocked budget. This could happen, for example, if I remained an amendment and an article such as the Committee, and in this case, of course, the resources of various contributions and other matters would also be compromised. In explaining why this amendment proposed by colleague Beumann is not right, it is also a fact that we may have been a little careful when adopting the law on public finances that proposes it. However, of course, the law on the implementation of the budget in some ways suspends a number of laws and places certain laws in a different position. That is why I personally support the amendment of Comrade Beumann, and in this case, mine will, of course, become irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. First Mr. Trophynik, then Mr. Pucko. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Thank you. In some ways, I would like to try to replicate or draw my colleagues' attention to the danger that would have occurred if they had deleted paragraph 5 or if they had not adopted the amendment of the Committee, as far as this is concerned, which is correct and provides transparent public finances in local communities. And please, let's not play out of some partial interest, or, excuse me, colleagues, in terms of lack of knowledge of the issue. The municipality, I will translate for another language, is responsible for all the obligations of parts of the local community, i.e. local communities, regardless of whether they are legal persons. And that's why you don't convert. And it is not possible, in this way, to allocate funds or earmarked budget revenues for which the local community must, in accordance with the law, indicate which revenue is earmarked and for which expenditure is earmarked, nor is it possible to use what you are afraid of for anything else. Therefore, I ask you to be responsible for supporting the amendment of the Committee because it provides transparent finance. I would like to point out that, according to this content, the municipal budget proposals have already been prepared, since this has been the case and they are all in the reception phase, the second phase is currently under way, and they would have disrupted the content of all the budgets already prepared in the municipalities, which had to cover all the revenue and expenditure. I therefore ask or point out once again that the amendment of the Committee on Finance needs to be adopted for a quality solution. The deletion of paragraph 5 shall not be taken into account as does not take into account the basic amendment of colleague Beumann. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Don't you want a word, Mr. Pucko? Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In my debate, I will join the warnings of my colleague Trofenik. I think that the proposal of the amendment of the Committee on Finance should be supported. It is only necessary to be aware and to assume that local communities are an integral part of the congregation in organizational, human, financial and territorial terms and, as such, have been defined as deconcentration of the tasks of the municipality at a lower level. On the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, has already adopted an amendment entrusting municipalities with the task of supplementing the statutes with the content necessary to define legal personality. Most congregations did so. The introduction of a single transaction account does not in any way reduce the autonomy and autonomy of local communities, in particular those having legal personality after the decision of the local authorities. It would therefore be wrong to support any other amendment at this time, because if we have enacted a principle of transparency of public finances, an integrated budget at the local level, of course we simply have no other solution or are compressed into an angle and follow this objective further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Davorin Targeton, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have a question about the sixth amendment to this article, this is the amendment of the committee. It has been established before that we usually try to remedy and even deny some of the laws already adopted and try to remedy the situation arising from these laws in some way. This is also the case when it comes to co-financing cultural monuments. This article again introduces an exception. And the exception usually becomes the rule. It is the co-financing of cultural monuments, which are owned by the congregation. In addition to this article, it is possible to identify a specific public interest in the renovation of the monument and to co-finance from the state budget in more than 50 per cent. We have repeatedly found that we do not even have enough resources in the state budget to implement the so-called cultural tolar. Now we are introducing some exceptions that will result in an additional outflow of funds from the state budget when it comes to monuments owned by the congregation. In doing so, I point out that the municipalities can also transfer their monuments to the country and then finance them. That's one option. However, I am particularly interested in how this particular public interest will be established, because I believe that these are particularly relatively long procedures, so that in the following year, on the basis of a finding of specific public interest, this exception will be implemented. I, for one, highly doubt the correctness of such a dictatorship. And if you don't convince me by means of a technical explanation of what this exception means and how public interest will be identified, I will, of course, oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, then Mr. Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Comrade Terchon is the essence of the problem. I personally believe that this content does not fall under the law on the implementation of the budget. Sadly, this law becomes a postal mailbox every year for a variety of things that do not belong to it. It is true, however, that the existing law on the financing of municipalities, which differentiates the participation or participation of the State in various investments depending on the income ratio of per capita in the municipality of income, the average income per head in the Republic of Slovenia, is no longer logical as soon as the decision of the Constitutional Court was issued. The logic was when there was no financial settlement of up to 100 percent of the eligible consumption if, as we know, the municipality did not reach an adequate share of its own income. Since the Constitutional Court has suspended this provision of the law, of course, the deference in investments or co-financing shares provided for there is now illogical between 10 and 70. And directly calls for the proposed amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. If anything is necessary in this law, it is necessary. Unfortunately, this law cannot be reached, despite the twofold request of this national assembly to speed up this law. And if I try to be very correct, the amendment or problem has its weight, but it needs to be addressed in general by the definition of a law on the financing of municipalities, because the financial consequences are a significantly greater consequence, say, in the area of primary schools, kindergartens and similar investments than in culture. It is true, however, that the stipulation no longer endures. And personally, for the reason that this is not part of this law, I will not support this amendment. However, I advocate that we resolve this problem as soon as possible, by correcting the law on the financing of municipalities, which is a problem that is pressing, in general and needs to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for your words. Given that almost the same debate is taking place today as on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I would also like to touch this second amendment on Article 36. By the way, I will vote against it. For a very simple reason, whether or not the smaller parts of the local community, namely the local community, legal or unlawful persons, are all subject to the same system. We are joining a transparent financial system. All revenues and expenditure coming or going to individual local communities must be visible from the entire balance sheet. In the light of the amendment proposed in this third amendment to Article 36, I think it provides a satisfactory solution and, of course, in accordance with the views, of course, those who also have local communities do not have the characteristics of a legal person. Of course, that is why I will also vote against the fifth amendment, which is the amendment of the committee for a very simple reason. For such or similar decisions, it will be necessary to regulate the implementation of the budget of each local community, because of course you will be able to propose these exceptions. And, of course, I don't think there's going to be any reservations that even such revenue will not be able to be generated, which, of course, will come into the giro accounts, then turn into individual accounts or into accounts of smaller parts of the municipalities. As regards point 6 of the amendment, which adds the new seventh paragraph, I would of course say that we have adopted the same amendment in the implementation or implementation of the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture and Budget for 2002 and 2003 also prepared on these grounds. Above all, for this reason, which Mr Trophynik spoke about, because we have not yet come to this. And if we are trying to keep this situation for the years 2002 and 2003, an appropriate amendment has been proposed. It is mainly about cultural monuments co-financed by the Ministry of Culture to date at 50%, even in those cases where they own these cultural monuments of the municipality. Consequently, this share has changed exceptionally if it has favoured a special public interest in the restoration of the monument and the municipality has failed to provide 50% of the compulsory financial participation for the preservation of these monuments. At the same time, I think it should be noted that the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry is funding only the part of the investment that allowed the renovation of the monuments and in no case co-financed the entire investment here. The only exception to this rule is the monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which are of direct national concern. For this reason, I would ask Members to support this amendment and to make approximately the same legal basis as in the implementation of the 2001 budget, even for the years 2002 and 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Since no one wants Mr. School anymore, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u42	This debate, which was pursued by Comrade Tarcon and continued by Comrade Trofenik, is not as innocent as it looks, and I will say, in the end, it means roughly that the effective use of funds for the restoration of monuments will be reduced. For a simple reason, because it will be possible to determine very arbitrarily that one congregation cannot do this 50% and the other one can. However, in some ways, if this word means something in finance, it will not usually be found in this dictionary, unfair to all those congregations that have been providing a share for years and years, between 10% and 70% of the funds for the restoration of monuments. At this point in the budget of the Ministry of Culture, there are not enough resources to be freely redistributed into, say, municipal monuments, because it is clear that there are not enough for those of national importance. That's why I'm pretty skeptical to do a big favor to the monuments. This will mean that no one will be willing to renew the monument unless more than 50% of the funds are made available to the congregation, knowing that part of the funds for these purposes are actually given to the municipalities, in spite of all the resources they receive for their functioning. Therefore, I cannot support such a provision, irrespective of the possibility that a policy of renewal may be based on it. Such a policy has been for some time now, and that's why it's all stopped. When things got a little harsher, and when the municipalities were motivated, as well as private individuals, to invest in their property, the funds invested in the reconstruction of the monuments doubled in certain cases, and in some cases even tripled and quadrupled. By adopting such an amendment, it means that the restoration of monuments will slow down and the owners would bear less burden. This is the content of this Communication, which brings this provision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. That is, the explanation of the voice. Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Before taking a decision on behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose or ask for a 20-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. At the proposal of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, for consultation before the decision-making process, I interrupt the work and continue at 11.30 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! It's been five minutes since we had this consultation, so we're moving on with our work. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence first, I'd like to ask your attention. We're detecting a presence. There are 38 of us in attendance for the first time. I'm guessing we're not concluding. Please, colleagues and colleagues, who are close to joining us, because in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will find a second presence. Next time we figure out the presence. On the other hand, we are in the 40th Presence Hall. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I hereby adjourn the meeting for 10 minutes. We'll continue at 11.47. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Dear Members, honourable Members! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for the third time we will determine the presence in the Chamber, so I ask your attention. This is the third time we've detected presence! There are 50 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I ask the representative of the Liberal Democracy Group whether he wishes to present the decision after the consultation. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u48	In the LDS Group, we have determined, after consultation, that this article is one that affects a number of things related to local self-government and not only what has been emphasized that it would primarily be to unify, within the framework of the Public Finance Act, the management of accounts and thus make them more transparent. We believe that it is ensured that the local communities have so far been those where virtually no irregularities have been identified and have been seen as the narrowest form of local self-government, although the basic form of the congregation has been good. Those who have different experiences or have a different view through the glasses, whether they are mayors or otherwise, are also right. If it were to show that something was necessary in relation to the law on public finances, the law on local self-government and this law, then a change would be proposed in the domestic laws. We also believe that the fifth or sixth amendment of the Committee should be rejected because it prevents greater flexibility and care for monuments, as this basic amendment is also defined. Thus, in our view, we can decide on these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to a decision. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 36. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. They voted 3 to 46. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! I'm sorry. I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of voice. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it. Once again, the adoption of this amendment, or the non-admission of the third amendment, constitutes the lack of transparency of the public finances of local communities and constitutes a decision directly contrary to the 2002 guidelines for the preparation of the budgets of municipalities. 192 municipalities will have - I say conditionally if this is accepted - or most of these prepared budgets, which are in second reading, against instructions or against the principle of transparency of public finances. I will therefore vote against the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against it myself, of course not because, as Mr Anderlič said, some mayors can understand differently what legal personality the local community has. I think we understand correctly. I believe that all the guidelines, which have also been issued with regard to the preparation and implementation of the budget for 192 local communities, apply to all. Since I respect this legality, we also have our own budget, which we have already adopted, ready, so I will vote against this amendment and also against amendment number 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 30 to 19. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and therefore the vote on the amendment under order number 3 and 5 is irrelevant. We move to the vote on amendment number four. We're voting. I think there are more of us in the Chamber than we can see from this moment's vote. Second, we vote on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number 4 has been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under order number 6. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 28. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 6 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 7. Let's vote! The first vote was not successfully carried out on the amendment under order number 7. Let's vote next time! There are 47 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 46 as a whole. Explanation of voice. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is unusual for me to vote against this article because of how individual amendments have been dealt with and accepted. In fact, in doing so, colleagues and colleagues, we do not need the opposition because we create or create opposition within the coalition. We have held a thorough debate not only before the consideration of the bill on the Committee on Finance, but also on the Committee on Finance in particular. With amendments, such as the six amendments, the Ministry agreed and agreed or did not oppose the government. That is why this amendment, with the majority of the coalition, was also supported. Now, I don't deny that maybe someone can have doubts, no matter what the parent's working body said, what the coalition has said so far, but I think the nicest thing is, it's not normal and it's not normal. In doing so, I cannot do anything as opposed to this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Of course, I am disappointed that this was a political decision on a narrow professional matter with my left hand. Of course, man is in the dilemma of what to do, how to express a protest against irresponsible conduct, I allow myself to do so. If I decided to vote against it and if this were the majority, it would mean that it would be an even worse solution because there would be no article and there would be nothing to fix. Therefore, despite my disappointment, I will vote in favour, expecting an appropriate amendment or correction to be adopted in the third reading. Dear Leader of the LDS Parliamentary Group, you are nodding. I didn't argue with you because I know you shouldn't, in explanation of your voice. But now I'm going to do a misdemeanor and an exception. It's your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We therefore decide on Article 36 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes to 10. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Government to the new VI.a chapter with the new 36.a, b and c articles. The amendment is proposed by the committee and the amendment is proposed by the government. The amendment is immediately behind the amendment to the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We're going to vote first on the amendment to the amendment. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the government's amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to the Government's amendment to the new VI.b chapter with a new 36th Article and an amendment of the Government for a new VI.b chapter with 36th Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment of the committee to the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment of the committee to the amendment of the government has been adopted. We're still deciding on the government's amendment. We're voting. The vote has not been successfully carried out. This is the second time we've voted on the government's amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the government's amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 39 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the whole article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 40 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 40th Article, of which the Committee is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 40th, or b., which is proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jerič. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 2. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 42 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have therefore held a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. The Secretary of State, Mrs. Helena Kamnar, has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask if we can get 20 minutes to get the government to prepare the amendments for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[No, no, ……]] At the request of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I interrupt the meeting in 20 minutes. We'll pick it up at 12.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Dear Members and honourable Members, I very much ask you to join us, because we will determine our presence. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 36 of us present. Please, dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, who are in the vicinity to join us. The vacation was agreed by 12.30 p.m., now it is almost ten minutes after the hour, for which we agreed to give qualified applicants the opportunity to prepare the harmonisation amendments. Next time we figure out the presence. There are 34 of us present. As there were not enough Members and Members in the Chamber at this time, we will be able to determine the presence at 12:49 a.m. for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Since we will be present, I ask you kindly for the presence and attention needed in the hall. [[...]] For the third time, we find attendance in the hall. We're picking up the presence! There are 47 Members and Members present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We're at third reading. The Joint List Group has tabled an amendment to Article 36. I don't think there's an amendment on the bench yet, so if you don't mind, I'd read it. "A new sixth paragraph shall be added in Article 36, which reads as follows: Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of Communities and irrespective of the provisions of the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia on culture, the maintenance, renovation and construction of monuments owned by municipalities shall be financed between 50 and 50. Exceptionally, the relationship can be changed if a specific public interest is identified for the restoration of the monument and the municipality fails to provide 50% of the financial participation for the preservation of the monuments." The amendment is the same content as the second reading amendment under Article 6 to 36. I am opening a debate on the proposal by the amendment of the Joint List Group. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out to all fellow Members that, at the time of the adoption of the budget for 2001, and also at the time of the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget, we have adopted such an almost identical amendment that most municipalities have expected and followed the same guidelines when preparing the budgets for 2002 and 2003. I can only say about the municipality from which I come from, this is the Ljubljana municipality, so that we will now, on Monday, when we consider our budget, which is already in the form of a proposal, we will have to make changes. It was expected, and also given the stability of the financing of this work, not to mention that already 25 municipalities have raised a dispute in the Constitutional Court, but this is not an argument for today's use that in some way an inheritance, which is a very important element for preserving national identity and memory at all, will be so much more stable in this way also. Until a lasting solution to this problem, we expected such a compromise proposal to be 50% of the financing of the preservation of this part of the heritage to be acceptable to all congregations, regardless of whether these municipalities are smaller, larger and so on. That is why we have also insisted and re tabled the amendment in the same form. Once again, I ask my colleagues from liberal democracy, who have some concerns, remember that you have voted for such an amendment once before and firmly pressed the "yes" button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-05-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 36. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 23. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments in the third reading. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has tabled an additional proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the content of Article 26 of the Law on Community Financing, which, according to many Slovene municipalities, is inconsistent with Articles 14, 138, 142 and 153 of the Constitution, and in the preparation of the new Law on Community Financing, proposes a more appropriate solution for co-financing individual measures and investments in municipalities where there is, in accordance with the law and other regulations, a particular interest in their development". Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 34 votes against 4. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representatives of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. This concludes the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
