ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u1	Fellow Members, fellow Members, please take your seats in the Chamber. Those of you in the lobby are kindly invited to join us. We will start the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I am informed that they are detained and therefore today's meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Štemberger, Pece, Čeligoj, Possonec, colleague Battelli, who is otherwise present, and colleague of Peterle for the start of the session. Please place your card in the voting device, I detect presence in the hall. I don't think we've all pressed the "quorum" button in the hall, so we're gonna have to wait a few moments. I ask fellow Members and Members to remain in the Chamber and those who are not yet with us to come to the Chamber. I am also informed that there are no members and members of the National Community Commission. But everyone else, except those who are excused, should be in the hall. I'm gonna rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I note that 52 Members and Members are present. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and the Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 8th meeting and the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The logs are available on the computer network. Does any of your respected colleagues and colleagues have a comment on the minutes? Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please vote. 52 Members and Members were present, 42 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. As there were no comments to the minutes of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We're voting. I repeat the vote on the record of the 10th extraordinary session. Please identify yourself before the proposal for its adoption. 52 Members and Members are present. 45 voted in favour, no one objected to the proposal. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the minutes of the 10th extraordinary meeting have been adopted. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We are moving on to the agenda of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the proposal by reference to 13 November this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues and colleagues, before we move on to proposals for the withdrawal of each item from the agenda, I would like to inform you that, under the 27th item of the agenda, interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Environment and Space, mag. Janez the Digger. The matter was placed on the agenda in accordance with Article 285(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On 15 November this year, the Group of 24 Members and Members, the Interpellation Applicants, complemented and extended the interpolation. On the basis of paragraph 4 of Rule 284 of the Rules of Procedure, an extension of the interpretation was given the following day to the Minister and a period of 30 days was set for the transmission of his reply. On the basis of the above, there is no longer any commercial possibility of including that interpretation on the agenda of the 10th meeting, so the assembly will not consider it at that meeting. Interpellation will be scheduled for the first meeting, after a minimum period of 15 days to submit the Minister’s reply to the extended interpolation. We are moving on to proposals to withdraw each item from the agenda. I didn't get any withdrawals. Does anyone want a word? Then we move on to proposals to expand the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to extend the agenda by considering a proposal for a law on ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Does the government want a word? Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants to speak to the secretary of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[Neither do I.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 41 supported by this proposal, 8 opposed them. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider that proposal to be the 16th item of the agenda. We have not received any other proposals for enlargement. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Economic Zones Act. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. He wants to speak to the secretary of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. I ask for peace in the Chamber, we are in the middle of a vote on the proposal to adopt the law quickly. 51 Members and Members attended, 32 supported by such a proposal, and 14 opposed it. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on safety of inland navigation and the National Assembly proposes to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[Yes, he does.]] Please, you have the floor. Please stand up and explain to the National Assembly the reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u2	We'd like to emphasize, of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u3	Let me just interrupt for a second. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u4	We would stress the obligation or delay that we have adopted with the European Community with regard to the adoption of this law, and it is therefore appropriate for this law to be adopted in accordance with the rapid procedure proposed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Until the proposal for the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track procedure, the work of the mother body was not defined. He wants to speak to the secretary of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Neither do I.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 38 of them in favour, 16 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a feed law for consideration by the assembly; it proposes to adopt it quickly. I ask the government whether it wants to justify this proposal. [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yes, Comrade Sok, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members and Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u7	Comrade Sok, before you proceed, I would ask everyone to calm down and allow you to explain your views in an appropriate atmosphere. I'm gonna have to ask you for a second. Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! In view of the fact that this law has not been considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as a parent working body, and also in the absence of an attached opinion by the Secretariat and the law, I would say that some new requirements for this area as well as some new financial burdens, both for the State budget and for the food producers, as well as for the consumers, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would suggest that this law should be dealt with on a regular basis, it is said that only the first reading would take place at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you. Another group would like to clarify its views on this proposal, so that the law is dealt with quickly. Please, SLS+SKD Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, our parliamentary group agrees with the Government's proposal that this law be adopted in a swift manner. The meeting of the working body, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is convened and will be held tomorrow morning, so tomorrow morning, Thursday will be 8:30. I think that all the conditions for the law to be considered will be in line with the proposal proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you. I ask that the National Assembly respectfully make it possible for anyone who says he does so without being disturbed. This applies to all of us. Does any other group of Members wish to clarify its views on this proposal? What is the Government's position in view of the views expressed by the two groups? Government officials? They don't want a word. Then we will move on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 27 were in favour of such a proposal and 25 opposed it. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on social security contributions. May I ask for peace in the hall? Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 38 supported them, 10 opposed him. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 39 supported them, 13 did not support them. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994-2003 and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? Representatives of parliamentary groups? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. There are 55 Members and Members present, 41 supported by the proposal, and 6 opposed. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Ambassador Pavel Rupar submitted a proposal for a law on the protection of animals from torture for consideration by the assembly. The Assembly proposes that we adopt it quickly. Does the proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? Emissary groups? He wants the word "governance"? Since no one wants to discuss the proposal, I put it to the vote. We are voting on the proposal to adopt an animal protection law against torture on a rapid basis. 51 colleagues and colleagues were present, 46 were in favour, 1 was against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of a short-term law. First, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law amending the tax procedure law for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. I'm asking the government, does he want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent labour body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the President or the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Emissary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present; 42 were in favour, 11 were against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending the law on specific conditions for the registration of property rights in individual parts of the building in the Land Book. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the speaker want a working body that agrees with the proposal to adopt that law after a reduced procedure? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? I don't see that kind of interest. That is why I conclude the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would also like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 48 in favour, 7 in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Since the National Assembly decided at its 9th session that the third reading of the proposal for an amnesty law would be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure, amendments to this proposal for a law, which is included in the 17th item of the agenda, could be tabled until the beginning of the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, this way we can move on to a full decision on the draft agenda. Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u12	Yes, thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I request, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a recess until 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u13	Is it possible that it could be 15:15?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u14	3: 30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u15	3: 30 p.m. Okay. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to hear such a request. The National Assembly will decide on the draft agenda in its entirety at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members! Please take your seats. We'll continue our 10th session. We are fully ahead of the vote on the draft agenda. I ask for peace in the hall. We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 60 Members and Members present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and can continue its work. Before the vote on the draft agenda, the entire Socialist Party's Group sought and received a recess. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the draft agenda. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 47 of whom voted in favour of the agenda as a whole, 9 opposed to the proposal. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the agenda for the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. Under an unwritten rule, he should now set aside fifteen minutes of rest for us to be joined by members and members of the government, led by the Prime Minister who is already with us. If any of you objected, then I would not have made such a proposal, or else I invite you to continue the meeting of the assembly if you all agree. There's no contract. So we can move immediately to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Allow me to inform you that some ministers and ministers have been taken and are therefore replaced by the competent State secretaries: instead of Dr. Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence, Secretary of State Janko Deželak, instead of Dr. Lucija Čok Stane Pejovnik, Secretary of State, also Dr. Zoran Stančič, Secretary of State and Mr. Herman Tomažič, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Dr. Rupl, Secretary of State Magdalena Tovornik and Secretary of State Samuel Žbogar, and instead of Dr. Vlad Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Secretary of State Bran Omerzu. Everyone else is present and will answer questions from the Members. First, representatives of the opposition will be given the floor. First among them is colleague Janez Janša. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the summer of 1994, the National Assembly adopted a special decision obliging the government to prepare a special law for the privatisation of banks, so that the privatisation of banks will be carried out on the basis of the law and the participation of citizens in privatisation, given that citizens have been exempt from taxes by banks. We've waited five years for this marriage, but nothing happened, and the government didn't propose it. That is why our parliamentary group introduced a law on the privatisation of banks in April 1999. This law stipulated that part of the ownership of state-owned banks, state-owned banks should be distributed to taxpayers, so that we can obtain some dispersion of ownership and that both systems of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank of Maribor should be maintained. The proposal also allowed openness to the entry of foreign strategic partners and, most importantly, such restructuring of the work of the Slovenian banking system in order to serve small and medium-sized enterprises and local communities more. As a result, this law allowed at least the medium-term property of most banks privatised in this way to remain in Slovenian ownership in the long term. The government coalition rejected the bill at the beginning of 2000 and offered nothing else. The privatisation of banks is now taking place contrary to this 1994 decision and following models adopted by the government itself. What are the dilemmas in the Slovenian professional and lay public in this regard? The privatisation of banks, due to this delay resulting from the very late response of the government, has also landed at a time which is probably not the most favourable to this privatisation, not the domestic economic situation, nor abroad, do they speak favourably. I ask the Prime Minister: Does the government feel responsible for this delay? I also ask him: Does he think it is good that the majority owners of Bank Koper become Italians or Italian banks and the majority owners of New Credit Bank Maribor Austrian Bank? And does it assess this situation in which we are now in the case of bank privatisation, whether it is successful or bad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you. I welcome you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The question of Commissioner Janez Janš is, of course, quite a topical issue with regard to the privatisation of banks. A number of debates have been taking place in our public recently. There are very different opinions. While one opinion is present everywhere, there is a need to maintain national interest in the privatisation of banks. However, the views on how to defend national interest in the privatisation of banks are, of course, very different, often completely opposite. First, let me answer about the legal basis for the privatisation of banks. The government considered that a sufficient or appropriate basis for the privatisation of the remaining two banks, which are mainly state-owned, could constitute a law on the implementation of the budget. Notwithstanding the 1996 decision of the National Assembly, the National Assembly later adopted a law on the implementation of the budget which provided for this privatisation of the two banks. We estimate that the formal basis itself is sufficient. The second question is the substantive question of how to make the privatisation of banks, whether there has been a delay and whether the government feels responsible for the delay. What we've heard most lately is that we can't be late, but that we're running ahead even with privatisation. We have recently heard, for the first time, that majority ownership should remain in Slovenian hands, and for the second time, because the answer is that we do not have enough financially strong domestic demanders who could participate equally in the ownership of banks, that it is even better that the state does not privatise banks, but that it waits for them to mature circumstances and that it can also create a strong domestic financial demand for this. In short, on this side, a large part of the profession and defenders of national interest are now telling us that it is better to wait even longer for privatisation and therefore that they have not yet matured the conditions for sufficient effective privatisation or successful privatisation. It is true that, from this point of view, early privatisation in previous years would, of course, assume even more confidently only foreign privatisation, because only foreign demand is strong enough financially. "Vis-a-vis" is what I know you've been offering a question about a broad civil society that we couldn't agree with, because, above all, it's unusual in banking, in the business world, and it probably wouldn't represent enough effective ownership control. The State is already a representative of citizens, taxpayers, in both banks, representing our common property and also through the Supervisory Board monitoring the operations of banks. However, in our belief, of course, the country is nowhere, neither in us nor anywhere else, nor the optimal owner, nor is it the best solution in the long term. It is also likely that dissipated labour or civic equity is even less effective or less effective ownership. What we want to establish is a stable banking system in Slovenia that ensures sufficient security and a sufficiently cheap banking business, sufficient quality banking business, so that we can compete abroad. What the government has done in this situation is to develop a privatisation programme and to look for offers. At this stage, we are in the phase of searching for and checking offers, finding out what interest there is in purchasing ownership shares in both other Slovenian banks. On this basis, of course, we should make decisions in the end. Well, at this point, of course, there is no decision yet. It is possible that this decision will not be taken in one or both banks if they find that the tenders are not appropriate and that it may be better to wait or repeat such an invitation to tender. But it's too early to talk about today. What we have repeatedly been up against, even in public, was just an idea or perception that our companies, our managers from economic, industrial, commercial companies, would privatise the bank. This would be the worst way to privatise banking according to our estimate. Because they're companies that are usually the committee of the bank. In the previous system, we had this kind of intertwining of functions, on the one hand, of bank lenders, on the other hand, of bank manager as the owner of banks by such companies. And the general expert assessment is that this would be bad, that it would lead to ineffective banking and that such a bank would not be successful and stable in the long term. In addition, domestic companies should now direct part of their accumulation, which they need to focus on their development, to purchase bank shares that they do not actually need. Or, these were attempts, conceptually, to obtain a bank loan to purchase equity shares in a bank using this bank loan. We have encountered such concepts in the past. In the government we have estimated that this would not be a good ownership, it would not be a good privatisation and that this would lead to too much interconnection of interests in Slovenia, where relations would be unclear about what someone is, because in fact it would also be a narrow circle of people in some way after some interests that may or may not be national, guide the operation and decisions of both companies and banks. The countries where they went to such intertwined functions, intertwined roles, were soon gone or proved economically less efficient than others. I think that the current public debate, although many times and too many times it is populism, is useful. We also monitor the government, listen to it, and really try to weigh different aspects and make optimal decisions. In the New Ljubljana Bank, buyers are now looking for a 34% share, not for a majority share, while in the Maribor Bank they are looking for a majority share. However, I repeat what decisions will be made, of course, after the assessments have been made, when the appropriate checks have been carried out and we will also assess what is best. The government and itself, as Prime Minister of course, cannot interfere with the ownership of a bank that is a private bank, such as a bank in Cyprus, where private owners, Slovenian owners have clearly decided to sell, and the government, of course, has no function. In the end, Banka Slovenije has it, of course quite limited according to the law; otherwise, it is the decisions of private owners, although Slovenians, who will obviously sell their share to the Italian bank after this information. It is also clear from this that the sale, for example, of the Ljubljana Bank to Slovenian entrepreneurs or Slovenian owners would not in any way constitute long-term Slovenian ownership, because they may not be able to have their share of the sale in the future tomorrow, when they get a better offer from foreign partners, and, of course, no longer have any influence on this country. And from this point of view, in fact, the only option would be to retain state ownership and therefore not privatise banks if they wanted to ensure Slovenian ownership in any way. I have repeatedly talked about the fact that we cannot simplify things in such a way that we cannot simplify national interest with the ownership of banks. However, the government will try to have some balanced policy and will also make as balanced a decision as possible. However, we are responsible, of course, for the citizens who, through state-owned public finances, have saved both banks in the past decade, in this respect that we repay their funds, that we reduce public debt, and that we are therefore trying to complete this chapter in the history of Slovenian banking in the best way possible, and that we, at the same time, ensure, as I have said, that banking continues to be stable and successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. My friend Janš wants to ask a further question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u21	Well, about that last one, I agree. The handling of the case of the corporate bank has shown that the end is the same, regardless of which concept you choose - the one advocated by the government, or the one advocated by the President of the State, with the addition that, of course, the key people of liberal democracy, Mr Kozinc, President of the Port Koper Supervisory Board, and Mr Chuk, President of the Supervisory Board in Istrabenz, are, however, some influence. We are not against the strategic partnership of foreign capital. On the contrary, we believe that this is necessary for the faster economic development of the country, but within this definition there is also some room for manoeuvre. It is not the same if the majority owner of the bank is, for example, an Italian bank or an Austrian bank, and a Maribor bank, the opposite. Here is the room of manoeuvre, and the government has not made any effort to take advantage of it, or those who have sold it. From what you have said, it is clear that there are problems with both concepts, so we offered something else two years ago. The concept that we have offered lives very well in the most developed countries. It is not true that this is contrary to European practice; it exists in Germany, it exists in Spain, it exists in other most developed European countries. There was no serious analysis, no serious discussion, it was simply a vote. With regard to timeliness, I fear that the best time for privatisation has already taken place. Not that it's too early now, but that it's going to be delayed now because there's actually no good, ideal solution available, which it was before, at least we offered one. In fact, we estimate that the situation is not good and that the government has its share of responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Would you like to supplement your answer, Mr. Prime Minister? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u23	Well, once again, I would like to state that there can in no way be an accurate assessment that the government is delaying the privatisation of banks. Once again, I would like to point out that both banks need to be rehabilitated after their independence and that, of course, they were not capable of selling or privatising and that they had to establish normal business results and normal business after that break and after losing many investments at the time of their independence and at the time of the collapse of the previous country. In fact, only in the last period has there been a possibility of solid privatisation, because earlier, if it was too early, this privatisation would be literally below the price or at any cost. Now both banks are qualified to operate normally and can therefore also be successfully privatised. Once again, I would like to confirm that I think this issue is being overly politicized, that we now have a typical example in Slovenia of very political consideration of economic decisions, business decisions, investment, investment, privatisation. It's not just a bank, we see similar treatment in all the different possible foreign investments. Above all, as Prime Minister, I must point out that we are already completely on the tail in Slovenia, for example, all candidates for membership in the European Union, as regards the share of foreign investment in a social product, entirely on the tail. In Slovenia, we do not have the resources to invest the necessary resources in our investments, in our development, in order to privatise everything with our own resources. If we do this, of course, this is possible, but we will have less growth, we will have less economic efficiency and a lower standard. So those who now speak to the Slovenes, if the national interest is to keep it in our hands, deceive them, because at the same time they have to tell them, "we can do this, but you will live worse, you will end up with lower wages and lower standards". We'll have worse economic efficiency if we shut ourselves down in this way. Of course, in some key points, we will also look at national interest from this point of view. But now the whole debate in Slovenia is going in the opposite direction, in a direction that I think is already harmful to the normal economic development of Slovenia. As far as the corporate bank is concerned, I would not judge the owners' decision because it is actually their legitimate right to do what they think they can do in this system. In the previous system, of course, it would be possible to discuss this way and just say, "you can do this" or "you must not do this with your property". Now the government can't order them to do that. These representatives on the supervisory committees you mentioned are not government representatives. They are not government representatives, and Mr Kozinc is also a representative of other shareholders on the Luka Supervisory Committee, and also Mr Chuk is not a government representative in any sense. So it is the decision-making of the owners within the framework of the system that we have all taken and highlighted together. Now, of course, this is how this system works. I would therefore ask that we do not expect the government to intervene as it might have intervened in another system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The second question will be raised by Mr Peter Levich. You have the floor, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek! Tomorrow will be a week from the outstanding success of the Slovenian football team in Romania, where our boys have managed to achieve the most resilient success so far, namely the football championship, in and in Seoul and Tokyo. Their remarkable success must have aroused the civic pride of most Slovenes, which is outstanding in our ten - year history, and he firmly put Slovenia on the map of the world. You probably already know where I'm going with my question. How does the government intend to make use of this success for the specific promotional purposes of our country? I'm interested in the following: How will Slovenia make use of the World Cup 2002 classification of footballers for promotional purposes? And how the government will approach the construction of the multi-purpose stadium While some funds are earmarked in the coordinated draft budget, it is likely that there is not enough. I wonder: Will you also ensure that the stadium, in addition to the central sports event in the country, will be suitable for current sports events, for broader sports activities of young people, as well as for other events such as concerts and national events for all generations of citizens? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Drnovšek. You're the only one who's got a word right now, so I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government not to disturb the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u27	I, too, as Prime Minister, am pleased that our football team has been so successful and has joined the World Cup. I was a day after the match in Romania at the Cefta Summit, and I saw the great disappointment of the locals, the hosts and, of course, the congratulations of all the other statesmen who were there. Everyone was watching the game. So, of course, this is a good promotion for Slovenia and I am very pleased that it will continue to do so, although it is true that this representative has already achieved a great deal with what she has achieved so far. The stadium is primarily a task or project of the city of Ljubljana, where activities are already taking place in this direction. In the draft budget, the government also proposed co-financing of 150 million tolars for the stadium. After I have been informed, the activities are now running fairly concretely and this issue, that is to say, the question of the stadium, should be resolved as soon as possible. Probably in the situation of these sports results in particular, there is such expectation or perhaps such a desire by most Slovenians, and I think that these activities and these resources should be sufficient to reach the stadium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Comrade Levich, are you satisfied with the answer? You have a further question, please. Please, it's your word, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you. I'd just like to point it out. In fact, the promotion - we remember the Olympic Games in Seoul, we had a Slovenian house, which was intended primarily for the promotion of Slovenia, the promotion of Slovenia to foreigners, but what happened was that they were mainly Slovenes in it. So that's the kind of mistake that needs to be corrected a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Would you like to add something to the question, Prime Minister? [[No, no, ……]] The third question will be asked by your colleague Dr. Bayuk. Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just like everyone in New Slovenia, we were looking forward to our representation being included, but my question will be focused on another area. Dear Mr. President! We have not yet formally received data on the financial plan of the Health Insurance Institute in June of the National Assembly, and we have some disturbing data, and in particular that this year's deficit will be almost 13 billion dollars. According to the principles of social justice, reciprocity, solidarity, this compulsory health insurance system has continued irreversibly throughout the previous regime. Until 1998, the Autonomous Health Insurance Office was able to carry out its activities without insurmountable financial problems, as contributions from insurers and employers were sufficient to cover obligations. Since then, certain problems have started to emerge, which are largely due to government policy. Increases in tax liabilities, increases in wage costs as a result of government policy in this area, and irrationality in the organisation of the healthcare system are, according to our assessment, considered as factors causing expenditure to increase faster than revenue. On the agenda of the current meeting, a government proposal for a law amending the law governing the contributions of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is included. Apparently, the government has decided to adopt a unique approach to resolving the deficit of this institution in at least three aspects: First, Slovenian health insurance was already set after a model of a Central European model based on a partnership between workers and employers 113 years ago. The government has only decided to increase employees' contributions. I would like to ask you, Mr President: Why such an approach that is clearly inconsistent with the above-mentioned principle of partnership? Secondly, it is also worrying that the proposed increase in workers' contributions by one fifth of the percentage will not cover the deficit of almost 13 billion tolars. According to our calculations, the additional revenues should be higher than once again. On this point, I would like to ask the government: In what way does it provide for the coverage of this deficit without limiting the autonomy of the health insurance institution in a similar way as it had already done in 1996 with the autonomy of the pension institution? Third time. Above all, we are concerned about what we have seen in this government proposal, namely the fact that we are missing long-term visions of solving this problem in accordance with the autonomy of this institution, which, according to our assessment, has served the previous generations well and should not be lost among other items of the already overburdened state budget. Surely part of the long-term solution is greater rationality throughout the system, and this is the responsibility of the government. I'd like to ask the government: When will the National Assembly be informed of a detailed plan that will respect the fundamental principles on which our health system was built over 100 years ago and which will ensure its effectiveness and financial stability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Can you turn off Dr. Bajuk's microphone? Thank you very much. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you. The Health Insurance Office is expected to have such a loss, that is, 13 billion tolars. This is, of course, one of the reasons why the government, in its proposals for economic policy acts next year, has taken certain measures for the next two years. Of course, among them is an increase in the contribution, but not of employees, but of employers by 0.2%. We tried to minimize this raise and also compensate it with a lower wage tax so that the overall burden of employers would remain unchanged. So, we have made two corrections in total public finances, so that employers remain the same, and the health system will obtain some additional funds. In the following year, this projected loss is to be reduced by half this year and eliminated in 2003. This is, of course, a measure to remedy this situation, today's situation. However, the government has also paid special attention in the health budget acts, more funds for investment, including from the budget, especially for those most critical investments, to the cancer institute, to the paediatric hospital. I estimate that in 2001, 2002 and 2003, where the draft budget is currently in place, we are significantly increasing the attention of the healthcare system. We are aware that a number of changes, including within the health system, will need to be addressed, of course, in the future. It is also likely that the patient’s attitude towards health, or the issue of cooperation further at a certain level of services, including by the public, citizens, but without the intention of going into such extremes as to put our social system at risk in this health component. There must be no risk of equal access to health services for all citizens. However, rationalisations will be needed within the system, a more rational set-up, probably also a division of part of functions within the health system, including in the hospital system, less duplication or a more rational distribution of the capacities we have. The debate on this is welcome, even in advance, and will welcome suggestions, of course also your suggestions on how best to regulate the health system in Slovenia in the future. This is very important. I would point out that, unlike other transition countries, Slovenia has managed to maintain a fairly successful health system. Others have been less fortunate or have had their health systems in recent years, and they have experienced major problems in the past decade, as well as in some more developed Western countries, such as Great Britain or elsewhere, where over-privacation may have led to almost a spread of some public systems, including the health system. So, taking these experiences into account, we will look for a balanced path in Slovenia, and health is certainly and will be a priority in our operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Dr. Bayuk, would you like to ask a further question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It is in this area that certain countries in the European Union, notably Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy, know about health and medical supplies, that have different approaches than those decided by our government. As of August this year, we have decided to maintain such a system of some loose regulation. It is already time for us to decide to review this whole system as well; because if we look at the data we now have so that next year health insurance will favour 41 billion tolars for medicines alone, one only wonders whether it is not possible for us to reach any such approach that the health insurance institution will have a task from the government to negotiate with certain companies - not only domestic companies, but also foreign ones - that we will come up with such solutions as elsewhere, and also in the European Union itself, as I have already mentioned. We would like to see that the government, as far as this is concerned, has also decided in this area and that we would have a different approach. It is obvious, Mr President, that, when we have such expenditure, various companies, domestic and foreign companies, especially domestic ones, show an increase in their profits between 30% and 60% in the first half of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to complete your answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u37	I couldn't agree more. The government has already taken such a position, and I am for it myself, and we have also imposed on our Minister of Health to try and reach even by negotiating or by other measures to achieve lower drug prices. Something was already done in this area this year. I fully agree that this sum for medicines is high, probably too high or that we use too much medicine at all. I am sure that we will also find better solutions here together, in short, especially in the interests of patients, of course, and less in the interest of the great profits of some producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the first three questions raised by members of the opposition, to which the Prime Minister has a responsibility under the rules of procedure. We will now proceed with questions to which the competent ministers or state secretaries will answer. The first question will be raised by Comrade Victory Jelinčič. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much and very much for saying hello to everyone. Pivovarna Laško offered the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society 22.6 per cent of the shares of the Pivovarna Union at the price of SIT 78 thousand on 16.11. The offer was top secret. The Belgian Interbrew informed the Securities Market Agency and the Competition Protection Office on 19.11. first of the tender for the purchase of Pivovarna Union shares of SIT 73 000 per share and later raised the price to SIT 82 000. Is it true that the Director of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, Mr Končnik, informed Interbrew and Union of the offer of the price of Pivovarna Laško, although the offer was strictly confidential and it was thus possible for Intebrew to react at a new price? If this is true, how can a director of a state company violate all business ethics and morals and disclose data that directly harms a Slovenian company and thereby confers a foreign company on the detriment of a Slovenian company? How can the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the founder of this fund, allow such a thing to happen? And: why do we allow ourselves to sell our national interests for - as it appears - commissions received by individuals? Second question. Slovenia has taken over its debt to the Paris Club in its entirety, although economists have warned that it will be written off in whole or in part. The fact is that the debt of the Paris Club to Poland has been completely cancelled, and the fact is that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has reached an agreement with the Paris Club to cancel 66 percent of the debt. The facts speak of the incompetence of our negotiators, especially Mr Mejak, as illustrated by his statement at the 28th regular meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy on 5 September this year, when he said this: "I would stress this if I were talking about sharing that it would be very difficult to exercise higher participation in some way, especially because it is a social motive." Further: "And I think that, frankly, it would be extremely distasteful and unacceptable to take into account the damaged Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into account the great damage that Croatia has suffered, taking into account the impoverished Yugoslavia." And it goes on: "I think I should say that insistence and stubbornness on greater participation would give us, I would say, the mark of a selfish person, which, in the international public, I should say, would not be useful." I'm asking the government. Who was Mr Mejak represented, and who is represented by the Minister's Councillor, the Special Agent of the Government, Mr Rudi Gabrovec? Ter: Doesn't the government have a better team to represent the interests of the Republic of Slovenia? Because now in the international public we have the mark "stupid". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčich. The Minister of Finance will answer your question. Mag. Robbery, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u41	Dear Member, I will answer the first part of the question, namely this - or try to answer - which is related to the case of the acquisition of the Pivovarna Union. As far as this case is concerned, according to the information I have, the Belgian company has applied the existing takeover law and announced the takeover of the Pivovarna Union. So the procedure in accordance with the takeover law in force in Slovenia is ongoing. This means, of course, that in accordance with this procedure, all those who are given an offer - and given to all existing owners of the Pivovarna Union - have the opportunity to sell their shares or not; if they consider that the offer is good, they can do so if they assess that they do not, they will not do so. And, of course, a competitive acquisition or competitive offer is also possible under the takeover law. In fact, it will be shown below whether one of the potential buyers is willing to make a competitive offer and then individual owners will decide accordingly. As far as both parastatal funds are concerned, it must be said that they have these shares and are interested, that their assets are optimally sold or that they are optimally increased in both short and long terms. And I'm sure both funds will decide accordingly. In this case, of course, it is necessary to know that there are short- and long-term benefits, but depending on what happens to the shares and what happens in the case of both breweries. I think we will be able to ensure that, in accordance with existing legislation, business policy and the tasks of the two Funds, they do well. The first has a relatively short-term obligation, a Slovenian compensation company which has some obligations that come within a relatively short time frame, the second has longer-term obligations, and that is the Capital Society. So the process is still very far from its end, and I believe that we will ensure the proper correctness of the whole process and, as I said, the optimal decision. Whether the individual decisions and, of course, the action of the responsible persons - in this case, you mentioned the Director of the Slovenian Compensation Company - were correct or not, is the task and competence of the specific authorities, including the Securities Market Agency. Where there is such evidence of the issue of internal information or the provision of such information, the relevant persons should submit it to the Securities Market Agency. I am confident that this will respond in accordance with its powers, and if, of course, the government finds that any of this has been violated, it will also act. As for the issue of the Paris Club and debts and overall success, the question is, I would say, relatively complex and an intervention to the decisions of the government in the past 10 years. I therefore propose that we give you an accurate and written answer and explain in this all the decisions that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken regarding the Paris Club and, of course, decisions. We will also give you an explanation regarding the appointment of the leader of the negotiating group and of the negotiating groups, both Mr Mejak and, of course, Mr Rudi Gabrovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I ask: Is it true that for one of the conditions for entry into the European Union Belgium has placed the sale of the Union Brewery Interbrew Group, so your entry will be more reliable? Could the government have taken this into account when making a statement that the government would not take national interests into account when selling Uniona but would sell it to the best bidder? I would ask myself what some have against Slovenian companies or against the Brewery Union, whether there is opposition here because it is a Slovenian brewery or because it may be a Styrian brewery. I do not think that the interest of our policy is to have foreigners as hosts: what will the government do in this case. However, as regards the second issue, it is undeniable that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will pay only up to 12 per cent of the debt of the former SFRY, determined by the IMF key, and will receive 36.5 per cent of all assets and 39.5 per cent of the assets of diplomatic and consular offices. Slovenia is already or will repay 16.39 per cent of the debt of the SFRY, determined by the IMF key, and will receive only 16.39 per cent of the assets and only 14 per cent of the assets of the DKP. I would ask you: Will someone answer to the loss of some $100 million of Slovenian property?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u45	As far as the first part of the question is concerned, I can only ensure that I do not know and have not heard of such conditions. Perhaps someone else will say something like that, but in my opinion, of course, something like this has not happened that anyone would give any conditions regarding the acquisition of any company. As for the case of this takeover, I think that we have a properly regulated legislation in Slovenia and that we can deal with it, and that we also have sufficiently clearly defined functions, the tasks of both funds. I therefore think that the procedure will run perfectly normal and that all the necessary interests will be protected in this case as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u47	Madam Vice President. In my role as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I would like to protest and point out the procedural embarrassment. Mr Jelinčič, when asking the question, read a magnetogram of the closed meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and tried to publicly discredit the main negotiator once again with the technique of torn quotations. Please note that the quoting of closed meetings magnetograms is unacceptable, not only by the rules of procedure, but also by the contrary, I will say so, with the character and work of the individual Member. Therefore, it seems to me that we need to instill in this National Assembly another practice, in particular when it comes to serious issues of international relations, to behave appropriately and appropriately, even when it comes to how we raise issues with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin, thank you very much for your warning. In fact, Members must be aware that the data from the closed meetings are classified and, of course, it is not correct from Comrade Jelinčič that he has misused it; in fact, Members also bear the consequences for abuses and therefore for conduct that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much again for your warning. The next question will be asked by the Member of Parliament, Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am asking the Minister of Environment and Space a question. During the previous term of office, the National Assembly adopted a law supplementing the Law on Business Buildings and Business Areas, which entered into force on 21 April 2000. In it, after a long-term procedure and several times, at least on some issues, we have made it partially easier and improved the position of the tenants of the premises vis-à-vis the current owners. This applies in particular to the amount of the rent, the settlement of past investments and the conditions for the cancellation of the lease. Despite the fact that 19 months have passed since the entry into force of the law, there have been increasing warnings that the law is not being implemented. In its letter of 5 November 2001, the National Assembly informed the Association of Mercenaries of Business Areas of Slovenia. It notes that only two cases in Ljubljana are known in society from numerous cases throughout Slovenia, when the lessee took account of the tenant's rights and began to implement the content of the law. Owners should have made new leases by now. This could be expected at least from the congregations. The practice is different and each tenant must exercise his right through a court of law. The Government or the competent ministry shall be responsible for the implementation of the legislation adopted. In view of this, I ask the Minister for the first time: Is the Ministry aware of the actual situation with regard to the implementation of the Act on Complementation of the Business Buildings Act, and what is the situation? And secondly, what will the Ministry do to ensure respect for this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Mr Potsch! The Act on the Supplementation of the Business Buildings and Business Areas Act, which has been specifically sought in the Association of Mercenaries of Business Areas of Slovenia, as you know, has not yet come to life in practice to a very large extent. It is true, however, that he himself gave exceptional protection to all tenants of the premises who had concluded the lease before 31.12.1993. This protection is judicial protection and, as you mentioned, individuals have already sought their protection before the courts and, of course, have been successful in doing so. As far as we know, there are still, at least in the process, a lot more than two. The fact is that we have been warned by the Association of Mercenaries of Business Areas of Slovenia at the beginning of October by the same problem as you mentioned. I personally wrote them off on October 29th and told them what the Ministry knew about it this very moment. I can also give you this letter as a copy. But it is also true that your very question has prompted me to actually do some kind of survey by municipalities, as lenders in individual cases, to determine the state of the public sector. As far as the private sector is concerned, of course, the ministry cannot have any review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Complementary question, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'll be grateful if you do this and if you'll give me the results of the survey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable ministers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna ask the Minister of Finance, mag. Robbery, although the subject of the problem also interferes with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The problem I will raise concerns the pension insurance fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have been providing voluntary pension insurance services for 45 years. The fund was founded by Slovenian craftsmen in 1956 in accordance with the then applicable federal law. The tradesmen were then prevented by law so that, like other employees, they could be insured in a state social security institution. The Fund has operated continuously within or with its legal predecessors and has also been registered with the SPIZ. The SPIZ has delegated or appointed its representative to the Management Board of the Fund. The Fund operated under the applicable laws governing the documentary system and did not allow the establishment of mathematical provisions for the payment of future pensions, which are now prescribed by the law in force. However, in 1990 the Fund started with the transfer to the capital scheme of pension insurance and has so far managed its own business policy to ensure that half of the necessary material or mathematical provisions are covered. The operation of the Fund is governed by SPIZ-1, which lays down the legal basis for its operation and also the question of covering the remaining part of the pension obligation. Since the adoption of the law, however, the Fund’s problems have almost ceased to be resolved. In spite of the clear purpose of the legislator, the competent services and the ministry have not made it possible to operate under the new legislation, nor have they covered the corresponding part of the pension obligation. The beneficiaries of the fund and also the insurers rightly ask whether it intends to continue to delay the decision on the continuation of the fate of the craft fund by counting on time to do its part. Personally, I do not think that this should be the case, so I am taking the initiative, on behalf of the Fund's 20,000 insured persons, to entrust the Ministry's competent services to ensure that the conditions for the continuation of the Fund continue to exist this year. And the question. For the State does not, despite the legal solutions adopted, settle the obligation to the fund in the amount set out in Article 232 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, Official Gazette No. 106/99? The commitment is about 1 billion SIT per year and will decrease over the years. The insured acquired the right to a pension fund on the basis of membership in accordance with its establishment in 1956 and to 1.1.1983. By failing to settle legal obligations to the Fund, the State risks further business. However, the State is also threatening the social security of 20,000 insurers and, of course, about so many of their family members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Tone, please. Mr. Kavtičnik, can you turn it off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u57	Your Honor! With regard to this issue, this is, of course, a topic that we have talked about relatively much and should probably also be answered in part by the Minister of Labour because it concerns the law on pension and disability insurance. However, despite the fact that I was, of course, the Minister of Labour myself, I am obliged to say that when we were preparing the law on pension and disability insurance, we were aware that the fund for the pension and disability insurance of the craftsmen was a relatively large problem. A relatively large problem due to the fact that it worked in the first period similar to the pension and disability fund, in fact on the so-called "pay-as-you-go" document system. On the other hand, during a certain period, the capital fund also began to function by having in fact two forms of insurance in part of the liabilities of the past, for which it is not actually to blame objectively, and from this title shows a relatively large loss or shows a low reservation for the pension insurance of insured persons currently insured. And from this title, of course, it also does not receive from the Insurance Supervisory Office the relevant authorisations for registration and full functioning. So the fundamental problem is how to solve this deficit over the years in this fund. We've talked a lot about how to do this. There's more options. The interpretations of this article mentioned here are also very different. Some argue that there is a need to ensure the difference between the minimum necessary for the payment of pensions and the full extent of the promised rights. From this title, the potential benefits are also loss or hole, and the obligations of the State are substantially different. [[...]] The ideas on how to solve this problem are different. from ensuring a certain amount or recapitalisation of the craftsman's fund annually and thus ensuring its normal functioning, so that it is registered and, of course, that certain specific operating facilities are also made available to it. That's one way to go. However, other ideas are also emerging in the discussion. We also discussed them when we were preparing the current amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which complement some articles, including the formula for the coordination of pensions. We have decided that in all of these changes, which are now being submitted - I think - to the National Assembly, we are not going in full with a comprehensive solution to the craft fund and to check some more ideas. Among other things, the idea is to attach the fund, for example, to the first capital fund pension fund and thus save all the insurers for whom we are actually obliged to pay their pensions. Various ideas may be possible, even if only those who are already and receive pensions are added to the pension insurance fund and would be owed, and of course only those in the capital fund, for which they will only be obliged to pay pensions in the future. In short, it is a relatively sophisticated solution, but it is also quite complicated, and I believe that together with the Ministry of Labour - as we have agreed - we will prepare a comprehensive solution to how to end this problem. The point is that we are aware of the problem, and, of course, we are prepared to solve the problem. Of course, it is clear that when we solve the problem, we are looking at a minimum price for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Just a minute. Since you have also addressed the question to the representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I ask the Secretary of State, Mr Branet Omerzu, whether he wishes to complement the Minister's reply? Here you go, Mr. Omerzu.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u59	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I think that the Minister of Finance has already announced a joint action, and we will also give a written answer to that part of the question directly relating to the implementation of the law on pension and disability insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik, would you like to ask a supplementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you. So, I am not fully satisfied with the answer because we have been dealing with this matter for more than eight months. We found similar answers more or less together, but the interpretations of the article, as you said, are different. Of course they are different, but it is, as I said, 20,000 insured, and last but not least, there is a time here that is absolutely not on the side of this fund that can't operate now. That is why I would like this year to be truly agreed on or in any way resolved - whether it is said that this fund can no longer function and, of course, the state does not grant these funds to them, which it should also give them under Article 232 of the Law. So whether it is said that the fund is cancelled and then carried with the appropriate responsibility, or whether it is specifically approachable to rescue and the fund can be revived.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. I ask the Ministry of the Environment and Space when the towers with mobile telephony antennas will be removed, which were built all over Slovenia, including in the Long Village, without a building permit and without the landings of citizens, and which many experts believe are dangerous to health. In the rule of law, it is not allowed to set up buildings without a building permit. I warned the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Health last month that children do not have drinking water in the school. I want to know what was done this month to solve this problem. What did RRR Mura, Murska Sobota, as an institution of the Regional Development Fund of Slovenia in charge of drawing up development plans, do during this time regarding the supply of drinking water to Pomurje, in particular the Prosenjekovci? And also: What did the development center Synergies of Moravian Spas do? The 2000 documentation shows that it was not small sums allocated by various ministries of development care in the region. And thirdly, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food ask: How many litres of Macedonian wine have they brought to Slovenia? And - How do they intend to solve the problem of Slovenian winemakers who cannot sell their top quality due to unwise imports? The following question I am referring to the same ministry: How safe are we consumers from mad cow disease, and how do they plan to save our cattle from this disease? And I ask the last question to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. During this time, students who have applied for social scholarships receive negative decisions. For a few thousand dollars they exceed the price to obtain a social scholarship. So I ask the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs: Is it possible from the 30, 40 thousand net to raise a healthy, widely viewed young person, which should be the goal of each country? Will it be cheaper if, due to the lack of resources, parents write out students and students who are then unemployed, without a job and will live a miserable life, and then the state will have to pay the fat sums for social support and the qualification of the unemployed? Would it not be wiser for a good and thoughtful scholarship policy to help young people get a job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament has referred questions to several ministries. I give my word first to the Minister, Mag. Janez the Ripper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Your Honor. In the last month, I spoke to myself repeatedly, once in public, about the subject you asked me about. You mentioned the case of an antenna tower in the Long Village near Lendava. These cases have recently occurred in Slovenia, unfortunately, I can say more than 10. Sam, believe me, I very much urge my inspection that, even as far as citizen participation is concerned, there is no problem here at all, so there is no problem in obtaining data. All I can say is that they are on my inspection - which, as far as this is concerned, is not the minister who directs individual measures or individual disruptions, but the inspection itself - they are on my inspection, and I want to stress that they will ensure that the first three towers will be removed by the middle of November - I do not know which locations exactly, but they said the first three. Sadly, this has not happened until today. We've already had two more gruesome inspections and I expect them to do it in the shortest time, I don't know now whether it's at this particular location that you asked me about or at some other place; but in short, it's going to start with this process. All I can say is that we have quite a few problems and individual resistances in the department of internal service as well. On the day when, for example, we should do something specific, it happened that individuals began to visit us in a hospital and similar way. In short, they're avoiding each other, and we're going to be trying to sort out this problem in the shortest possible time and react in a manner that is appropriate for the inspection. In particular, for this particular location that you've been asking me about, I can't answer right now because I have to forward this question to the inspection service within the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The question addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will be answered by the Secretary of State, Mr Herman Tomažič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Education and Sport has already given a written answer to this question, which was at one of the previous meetings, where the problem of drinking water has been identified, both in the congregation and consequently in institutions, in this particular case in the school, concerns the municipalities. And, of course, there has been an appropriate inspection, from which there has not been a report. Once this report is done, we will also give a written answer to this issue - a definitive answer is said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The question addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be answered by the Secretary of State, Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, everyone! Indeed, under the international agreement, the Republic of Slovenia imports wine from Macedonia. The volume of imports varies according to age. Let me say that in recent years the trend is declining, somewhere the highest was possible in 1996. This agreement also allows our country to export certain exports and mainly exports of agricultural products, such as meat. Experts with numerous exports and imports say that our balance sheet is positive for our exports. This year, from January to September, as we have data, the Republic of Slovenia imported 26.988 hectolitres of wine. Experts say that this wine is of lower quality than we actually need on the domestic market. Here's the information I'm going to give you. Now I would like to answer another question. A few moments ago, maybe an hour ago, we got a positive result from Bern, Switzerland, which means we have a confirmed first case of "bovine spongiphoric encephalopathy" in Slovenia, according to domestic and short BSE. Of course we expected that. As you know, the last week, intensive preparations are under way for this event, as we have also informed the public. Let me say that since 1995 our country has actually been monitoring this disease and, contrary to how it appears in the world and how our country is threatened, has been taking certain measures. Just a hint of how it works in the face of suspicion and illness is from 1996, so this is not a surprise for our veterinary profession. What we're going to do right now is I can say it like that. In the immediate event of a highly justified suspicion, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food appointed a special working group composed of experts from the veterinary zootechnical profession on the one hand and, on the other, experts from the agri-agricultural chamber, the food production industry, the farmers' union, etc. This group will meet twice a week and, as the market situation continues, also propose measures to the Minister. Thus, the first meeting of the Commission was immediately following the confirmed suspicion, and the second meeting will be held at 4 p.m. tomorrow afternoon. I lead the Commission. Very similar, I would say, details of this disease will be open to Members - and about the measures, of course, most importantly - Members, particularly members of the Committee on Agriculture, will be able to hear tomorrow. For the chairman of the committee, as you know, has already announced, in the event of confirmation of suspicion, an extraordinary meeting. Now he's just told me that it's expected that this meeting will be tomorrow, where individual measures will also be presented. Let me say that now it is known that there is one descendant who is alive from this disease. This progeny must now be removed harmlessly, otherwise our country will opt for Swiss symptom. This means that animals on this property are not killed, but that the property is under special regime and that the animals are then monitored. At the same time, all these measures, which are already being implemented in particular this year, will continue to be implemented. So I could say that the system works, the system is under control and at the moment we can provide Slovenian consumers with safe food. The measures we have taken here: from prescribing to ban the use of bone flour from all animals over 30 months of age being tested, from removing all tissues at risk from the food chain. I think that these are European measures and that they provide Slovenian consumers with safe food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The question addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be addressed by the Secretary of State, Mr Brane Omerzu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs Maria Pozsonec. In our area of scholarship is governed by the Law on Employment and Insurance in the case of unemployment and by a sub-law, this is a regulation on scholarships. Under this legislation, we do not know social scholarships, but they are so-called Republic scholarships. However, given that they are linked to the family’s censorship, they have the character of a social scholarship. The amount you mentioned is much higher here. In fact, it is the amount that both apprentices, students and students have the right to this scholarship, where gross income per family member in 2000 did not exceed 130% of the guaranteed salary in the same period, that is about 650 thousand. The amount of the basic Republic scholarship is 14% of the guaranteed wage for apprentices and students and 21% of the guaranteed salary for students. Of course, some who are under even more difficult social conditions or the most difficult may receive various additions to this basic scholarship. Thus, the movement of a possible scholarship of 6,211 for apprentices and students - the lowest and highest 47,916 in students is the lowest possible amount of 9,317 and the highest with all additions 53,685 SIT. Let me also provide average data - that students receive scholarships, apprentices and students on average 22,871 SIT and 29,820 students. And to the end. The number of recipients of scholarships was 43,878. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? Mrs. Possons, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. So, as far as the towers are concerned, I fear they will finally be legalized by such and different pressures. In the supply of drinking water, it was that institutions set up to take care of the development of the province did not do or do what was necessary. The evidence is that no one was moved by the fact that last month I pointed out what the situation was like in the Prosecutors. But with wine, I think we bring bad quality wine, and we don't worry about our top quality crops. So we destroy our vineyards, and vineyards are already literally being cut out. It's a condition. As far as scholarships are concerned. We used to have a correction factor. So if the social service at home thinks that someone needs to be allowed to get a scholarship, even though for a few hundred or thousands of dollars, this censorship was an option, and now it's not. That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Anton Delak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. I am sending a question to the Minister of Health. There are many patients in our hospitals or in the heart and blood vessels. Many of these patients are in need of operational intervention: either in Ljubljana or in Maribor. Because in some cases it is a matter of time before these patients are operated, it is understandable that there is a considerable amount of anxiety among them. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following questions. Who sets out the order of operations, the body or the individual, and how many doctors of individual hospitals are involved in this decision sending patients to surgery? Is this any difference in age? Do patients who have previously been treated at a clinical centre in Ljubljana have the advantage? Allow me to take this opportunity to express my respect for all doctors and healthcare professionals involved in the treatment of both heart disease and all other diseases.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! For heart and vein surgery or, above all, heart surgery has been waiting in Slovenia in recent years for a constant number of about 400 patients, just recently 360. That this number is constant is due to the fact that each year we increase the number of heart surgeries. At the same time, we believe that it should be increased to at least 1,500 operations per year in the future. The list waiting for operations is one in Slovenia, although there are two places where patients are operated, both in Ljubljana and in Maribor, the list is one, it is in the hands of the clinic or clinical department for cardiovascular surgery and in the hands of the proposed professional team and, of course, it is the responsibility of the head of this clinic or the one he authorizes. The list is under the influence of professional criteria, it is classified by patients only according to the criteria of urgency or not necessity, that is, the so-called electivity, and only the necessity of an individual patient may decide to come first or immediately. This means that neither an emergency patient can become an emergency during waiting periods because of the nature of his illness and can skip a single order. Age does not play any role, even I would say, for other operations we do not use age criteria in Slovenia, which is typical of some other countries. Age could only play a role if it endangers the patient, for example, biological age, not calendar age; if a particular operation poses a major threat, other solutions are presented to the patient in this case. In short, there is no discrimination as far as age is concerned. They also have no role and are understood as an ethically unacceptable act if patients from the centre, for example, had a prioritization over patients from other locations. In view of the fact that a very large number of doctors are involved in this area, travelling their patients, it is only necessary to say that it cannot be completely excluded in the process itself, that a patient - but, of course, again, how its necessity is shown to a team that decides on an operation, that a patient does not come first, for example, as a completely neutral procedure, which is hard to imagine. But it is true - let me say - that we are thinking, not just thinking, we are preparing an even more neutral system where it will actually be necessary for every patient leap on the waiting list to have a very clear excuse and interpretation. Even today, a doctor who has sent a patient to surgery anywhere in Slovenia can clearly ask the cardiovascular surgery clinic to explain where the patient is, how many are ahead of him and why or when he will arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mr. Delak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you. I don't want to have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would ask the Minister for Environment and Space that he is not in the Chamber. So I don't know if, given that the minister came to me earlier and told me that I was lying because I said some things, I'm going to quote him now and read what he promised 14 days or three weeks ago in this room and I'd like to invite him again and ask him to tell the truth. [[...]] That's what he said last time. One was to determine by means of an organisational note for the management of the hydroelectric power plant project on the lower Sava what the company Dravske power plant Maribor was to do. And this, in the way of merging the companies of the Sava power plants and the Drava power plants, would of course have been established in Maribor. According to some articles, some of the statements made by some directors, which she put in this place - with the help of Minister Kopač - are contradictory to his statements. Therefore, Minister, I ask again: How much truth is it that these two companies will unite to build hydropower plants on the lower Sava? I'm also asking a second question. Is it true that you, through the Secretary of State, Mr Golobe, have in some way suggested these two directors who have recently appeared in public that this merger project should be delayed? The next question I have is to ask the Minister of Transport, given that I have finally asked the question of how much is the rent on Dars' premises in Ljubljana. I had the assurance that I would receive a written reply from Secretary of State of Shina; I have not received that reply until today. Nevertheless - I also call on the Minister: Will he examine the responsible Secretary of State, who, in this Chamber at the last meeting, gave such an answer to the question at the parliamentary session: "Dars, after his office and his activities, is very attached to the work in Ljubljana, and most of the employees of the key staff are home from Ljubljana, and this is also one of the reasons why most of the administration works in Ljubljana."? As far as I know, he operates in Ljubljana as a whole administration of Darsa's service, which is based in Celje under all the rules and regulations. V.D. Deputy Prime Minister comes from Celje. Others come from Gorenjska. Will the government seriously consider taking some decisions on equitable regional development very often in recent times, including that of Dars and some other services, institutions, moving around Slovenia? Since I'm running out of time, I apologize. I was going to ask the government a question about Maribor Airport, but I'm going to do it in writing, and I hope to get an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member Kangler. The statement by the Director of the Sava Power Plants, Mr Miklavčič, to whom you may have thought is a statement which is his personal statement and does not have the views of the Government and the views of the Ministry of any relationship. It does not, after all, hold that this Director would be appointed director on my proposal, but this has happened before me. His statement suggested that, of course, in the form of comments in newspapers, the Sava power plant could only start building a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Sava so that it did not need anyone else to do so. All he needs is the government to sign the concession contract as soon as possible. I have already explained many times, including to you, personally, publicly and in a conversation, both in these corridors or in Parliament, that the government has already faced this dilemma at the beginning of this year and that it is precisely because it has assessed that the Sava power plant is only an investment failure to build the entire chain and that it is necessary to have a vision of how to build the entire chain, not only how to build the first hydropower plant in this chain, it is a hydropower plant in Bosnia; that the government has therefore decided to merge the electricity companies, because only such associations can go into this investment, but certainly not the Sava power plant itself. I have not been able to distance myself from this statement in public, because I felt that it was all the same, and the views of the government and the ministry themselves are clear and I have also explained them in response to the question of the delegation at the previous meeting of the national assembly. You have put another statement or more to the question whether it is true or not that I, through the Secretary of State of the Golobe, should order, I do not know who else to slow down the process of merging Savaska and Drava power plant. I understand something like that from your question. Of course, it's a pure fiction. I didn't do anything like that. On the contrary! The point is that this organizational problem will be solved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Jakob President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much for the question put by Mr Kangler. Therefore, both questions arise from the previous sitting of the 9th regular session. While I am prepared to answer the first question, this is about the rental for Darsa's business premises in Ljubljana. Unfortunately, I only received it from the relevant services today, and this did not keep the answer coming. I promise he'll be in the middle of something in a few days. So, I do not know exactly what the Secretary of State has said at the previous meeting, but I will also examine these from the magnetogram and give an appropriate answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u87	I'd like to ask Mr. Kopach a further question. If you would listen carefully to my question, I would know that I do not mean Mr Miklavčič, but I think Mr Fabjan, who had one article in Del. On his proposal, the government appointed the first person to hold the holding company. So once again, Minister, I invite you here to say to all Members: Do you support and will there be a merger of these two companies - Sava and Drava Power Plants? "Yes" or "no". This year or 2010 or 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u89	Yeah, actually, I answered you last time. And I don't know why you keep warming it up. I explained that the government had ordered the Supervisory Board of Holding and the Supervisory Board of Holding, through the management of the subsidiaries, namely the Drava and Sava Power Plants, to examine how this could be done. Both of them ordered a special study. Dr. Kocbek's, Savaska's, I mean, yes, Dr. Secretary. Each of these studies shows, of course, a completely contradictory claim or suggestion. And all of this is actually just one big legal problem that we need to solve as soon as possible. My sincere intention is, of course, to resolve this as soon as possible, because this legal complication delays the actual start of this important project or it can start to delay soon - this moment nothing is delayed, but works are running smoothly in preparation, but this could soon be known in the delay of the start of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the lower Savi, which is of course the main priority of the holding company. In short, I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will now raise the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, representatives of the government. I refer the first question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Given that energy belongs to your department, which I personally did not agree with in the establishment or appointment of ministers, I would like to ask: Are you following the events at the Šostanja thermal power plant related to the recent visit of criminals? Interestingly, this was a very resilient media activity and there are many guesses. I am aware that the work of criminals must also be independent in this case, but I expect that the government, as owner, has more information on the reasons for this investigation. The second question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport or to Minister Presecnik. You received a protest letter against the termination of passenger traffic on Saturdays and Sundays on the Velenje-Celje route and vice versa. It has been for some ten years, which has cut off the line that Velenje connected with Koroška. It is now envisaged that passenger traffic will be discontinued within periods which are not profitable. This can also be seen as a gradual phase-out of passenger rail transport. I am interested in your activities on this subject and, of course, the results of your activities. Let me also remind you again of the so-called diamond exit from the highway in Arja village. I don't think he's right, and I also think he's very dangerous. I suggest that the count be recalculated there, thereby determining the density of traffic on this site. I think it goes beyond the numbers identified at the time as the basis for deciding the type of connection to the highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you so much for asking. Yes, the ministry has not been informed of this, we have read about the problem in newspapers, like everyone else, so about the visit of criminals to the Chestnut power plant. The Ministry, together with the management of the holding company, has immediately requested the President of the Supervisory Board to produce a report on what has happened. The President of the Supervisory Board shall be Mr Dimnik, a member of the Ministry. Well, the President of the Supervisory Board requested such a report from the management of the Chestnut power plant. This report is, I think, got it yesterday, and it was, I can say, just in a few lines it was said that everything was actually fine. With such a report, of course, we were not satisfied and requested very precise answers to the very specific questions that we have asked ourselves. We do not have this updated report right now and, of course, as soon as we receive it, we will also be informed by the relevant or competent authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Jakob President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u95	So, the first question, as regards railway timetables, namely trains, would point out that Slovenian railways, because of the difficult economic situation themselves, have prepared a draft or proposal to reduce trains on some routes in Slovenia, especially those where at the end of the week and through the weekend passengers are less busy than 20%. To this end, representatives of the Slovenian Railways and the Directorate for Rail Transport met on Friday with the mayors of most municipalities who would have been affected by such a measure - I think there were about fifteen mayors - where the conclusion was that the mayors, of course, did not agree with such a proposal and that they required a re-examination of this timetable. Therefore, the Railway Transport Directorate within the Ministry of Transport is responsible for the approval of the timetable. At the Ministry of Transport, we are responsible for ensuring the implementation of the mandatory public service for the transport of passengers in internal rail transport. In doing so, we must also take into account the accessibility, equal accessibility and needs of individual regions. For this reason, I believe that the further activities of the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate for Railways will be directed in such a direction as to examine which trains which do not have parallel transport opportunities for passengers in public passenger transport - this is bus transport and so on - and where there is no possibility of such trains will, of course, take appropriate action or confirm such timetable as will enable passengers to take public passenger transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u97	In answer to another question, diamond exports to Arja village. I think the expert services are looking into this case. Exports are true - mainly due to the fence - a little awkward or imprudent and I hope that the study will show a suitable solution that will also solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answers, Mr. Kontic? Thank you. The next question will be asked by Dr. Miha Brejc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u99	Your Honor! First, I would like to ask Minister Kopač what the ministry has done to restore the beach of Lokavec or the beach above the town of Lokavec over Ajdovščina in due time. I've been there about three times in the last year, and I've seen it this Sunday, and I can only find that the plasma is moving towards the settlements and that it will or will already threaten the facilities. So, I wonder: What has the government done in this matter, and what else does it intend to do to avoid any worse consequences? The second question is similar to that raised by Mr Kontic when it comes to the railway timetable. Here I ask Mr President - I have heard your answer, but I would like to know exactly what you will do in the case of rail transport on the route Nova Gorica-Jesenice-Nova Gorica and Nova GoricaSežana? Especially this part of the track, when it comes to Novo Gorica-Jesenice and back, is especially attractive, because it is about places that are demographically endangered and whose train, although unprofitable, means only a serious connection, a regular connection to the environment. I think we should take a very clear position here and prevent the termination of this train. That's what I expect from you. I would also like to ask you a question - I now ask the government, especially the Ministry of Finance: When will she answer my question, which I asked on 20 February this year, about the Income Act? This is about the implementation of the three decisions of the Constitutional Court. These are decisions of 1996, 1997 and 1999. When I asked that question at the time, you answered me - that is, the Ministry of Finance, on 14.3.2001 - I quote: "In accordance with the 2001 work programme of the Government of Slovenia, the preparation of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act for the second reading is foreseen for the second quarter of this year." The second trimester has passed, we are now in November, we have December ahead of us, and again the people who have sought and obtained justice in the Constitutional Court will find that the government regularly ignores the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I ask for a precise answer when the law will be in the process. One last question. He's referring to my question from the previous session. For it is a failure to comply with the provisions of the "crazy law" to say the shortest. Last time I asked that question, I didn't get an answer until today. I ask the government: When, though, does he intend to answer that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. If we follow the order of the questions raised, I give the floor first to the Minister of Mags. Janez the Ripper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Dr. Brace. Of course, the government is very aware of the danger that threatens villages under the beach of "salted mud" or a village that is directly below the beach "salted mud", so we have adopted an appropriate programme of measures already in late spring of this year. It is true, however, that later, in the autumn, this action programme has proved to be sufficient and that we need to accelerate our activities there. Therefore, in the last reallocation of the budget reserve funds a few more than a month ago, we redistributed precisely for the purpose of eliminating the threat to the "salan" mud of about 200 million tolars. With this money, we are already paying for the removal of land from the core of the beach on both edges of the beach, which is already happening right now in the amount of money. However, a contract has already been signed, so that work should actually start these days, to build an import road, by which they will drive the land away. It's 10,000 cubic meters of material. I can't tell you the exact data right now. If your question were to be announced at least a minute before the meeting, of course I could provide you with accurate information, including dates, when and when something will happen in the coming weeks or months. I'll do that, of course, because I don't have it with me, I wasn't warned about it in advance, I delivered it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much for the questions, but I think in the previous agreement I have already explained about the suspension of individual trains. I don't think there's anything else going on between Nova Gorica-Jesenica and Nova Gorica-Sežana. As part of these solutions, for example, Nova Gorica-Jesenice, it is clear: there is neither parallel road links nor anything else on this track, and we will do everything we can to ensure that some trains on this track remain in those days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Answer Procedural proposal. [[...]] Here you go. Would you mind checking in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u105	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues and representatives of the government! I ask purely procedurally because I have before me a list under item 11, the order of these questions and it is written: "Dr. Michael Brejc asks the question on behalf of NSI". Whether this is a violation of the Group of Members, which I do not know, should be published. I'm asking the question on a case-by-case basis, in whose name he's asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u106	Mr. Kebrich, thank you very much for your warning. A written error occurred on behalf of the peer reviewers. On their behalf, I apologize to you, and Dr. Michael Brejc will do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u107	Excuse me! I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u108	I'm sorry. The procedural question has interrupted two more answers from the government's representatives. [[...]] On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State, Mr Darko Končan, will give you the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor! Indeed, we have promised you that as soon as possible we will put into Parliament a new law on income, which will at the same time include all the solutions that the Constitutional Court has also imposed on the government in relation to the three constitutional initiatives to amend the existing law. I must tell you that the set of circumstances that I will explain has essentially prevented the Ministry of Finance from introducing a new law on income into the parliamentary procedure within this time frame, as we said at the outset. It is undeniable that the proposed amendment to the Income Act is already, in itself, extremely extensive and will in fact concern a large part of our citizens, the taxpayers for income. Good and bad, if I may say a little metaphorically. Mostly in good shape. Because in its programme and coalition agreement, the government basically wrote that it wanted to reduce the tax burden on the income class to the first. However, how to do this to ensure that the burden in other tax classes is even and not too burdensome is an extremely difficult, technically complex issue, especially in such a budgetary situation as we have it. We have prepared substantive solutions, but at the same time, so that these substantive solutions are truly compatible and comparable with the legal order in Europe and in modern countries with a modern tax system, we have already agreed in the summer months with the International Monetary Fund to review the existing proposed solution and give its opinion and expert solutions in the context of the mission that it sends. It was a real initiative that these experts, who had already participated two and a half years ago in preparing this extensive novel of the Income Act, should review this final text with all these solutions. The September events in America moved the mission's arrival from the beginning of September to the months of November, and the mission completed its work just last week, on Friday, with a final interview, it also submitted a report and so on. In short, on this basis, we will now, because there are a number of important, including professional opinions on how to make our income legislation comparable and compatible, in the next month or more - I cannot exactly define this - also prepare this amendment of the Income Act in the whole framework for dealing with the government and then for putting it into the parliamentary procedure. All three constitutional decisions are also covered under this heading. Indeed, it is impossible in the present - because we know that any decision applies to the next fiscal year. When, of course, we missed, say, a reasonable deadline and because we know that such a thing could not be concluded in the parliamentary procedure before the start of the next fiscal year, and not at all for this fiscal year, it was therefore a decision not to open the matter separately, but in connection with and with a comprehensive solution to the whole of the income problem. This is the main reason, as I have stated, that we have not tabled an individual proposal in relation to these three constitutional decisions. This is how all of this awaits the conclusion of these technical and professional preparations for this material and will be dealt with by the government in the very short term.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Allow me, Dr. Brejc, to ask you a question about the implementation of the 'Azbest Law', so the representatives on behalf of the Ministry of Economy will be presented by the Secretary of State, Mr Igor Strmšnik. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u111	Your Honor! Now, if I understand correctly, you've already asked this question and you haven't got an answer to it yet. I apologize on behalf of the Ministry that this response has not yet been addressed, we are preparing it and we will do everything we can to get an answer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u113	Above all, I note that the Ministry of Finance is not serious when it speaks in such a hospitable manner about how comprehensive and systematic matters will be handled. Then why do you write papers like that? Didn't you know that when I asked you this in the spring? Of course you knew! And don't tell me now about these September events! Now you're gonna be referring to crazy cows, and I don't know what else. On the other hand, parents who adopted a child cannot apply for income relief even though the Constitutional Court gave them the right to do so. And you need international experts here to set you up with some kind of system. Please! Don't make fun of people. Even this year, even though they have a constitutional court decision in their hands, they will not be able to impose relief, even though they are, by all rules, by all means, by all legal order; you see, this government, this financial ministry, it's upsetting people! You don't care what people think. You're dreaming of some comprehensive solutions. On the other hand, you are sending to this Parliament every month amendments to the laws you submitted to the procedure last month. You're putting in a marriage you'll be taking back next month. And you're talking about comprehensive solutions! There's another problem. The problem is that you have no interest here, because this is about 13% of the most endangered people in this country. And these people don't interest you. That's the essence of your comprehensive solution. You'll see: the year will be around, and it will still be what it is today.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much, dear colleague, Dr. Brace. This was not a complementary question, it was a heightened criticism of the government's work. I don't want to give you another word. There is no tolerance between the issues of controversy and debate, but an individual Member may propose a debate on a particular issue if he is not satisfied. Would you like to give an answer to this supplementary question that was not there? Here you go, Mr. Concan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u115	Dear Mr. President Brace! Thank you so much for your grades. However, I must warn you, because if you would listen to me correctly, you would already have found the answer to this question of yours, to these statements you have just made. Legislative tax solutions are always adopted for the following fiscal year. Mr. President Brace! This year's government, even if it had accepted it and put it into parliamentary procedure, would not have resolved it for the fiscal year 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. I am asking the Minister for the Environment, Mr Janez Kopač. The question concerns the storage of radioactive waste in Brinja. Since 1999 the warehouse manager has been the Agency for Radioactive Waste. At the time of taking over the management of the warehouse, a decision was issued to the Agency by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety requiring the development of a project for the modernisation of the warehouse. The warehouse, which was built in 1985, does not meet current safety standards. They also requested that a final safety report be drawn up for storage in accordance with the modernisation project and the criteria laid down by the Nuclear Safety Act. The report on nuclear radiation safety in 2000 states that the project and the plan prepared by the Agency are inadequate and can only represent an idea project and not the required update project. In doing so, it is necessary to mention that there are numerous shortcomings in the area of hydroisolation, recovery of electrical wiring, replacement of ventilation, adequate fire safety, repair of concrete fittings, water supply and sewerage. All these shortcomings indicate that the facility is in very poor condition. Finally, it must be pointed out that the facility does not yet have all the relevant permits and has not yet been declared a nuclear facility. In the light of the above and on the basis of the numerous warnings contained in the 2000 Nuclear Safety Report, among other things, these deficiencies have been identified during the inspection, as if the warehouse does not have a telephone connection, that some courts are not closely closed, that there is insufficient protection, that the Agency does not have an approved procedure for the amount of material and that the security guard has not come at all at the time of the alarm, and so on, I ask: When will the Agency, as the warehouse manager, prepare appropriate projects for the rehabilitation of the low-nuclear waste storage facility in Brinja? When will the facility be rehabilitated in terms of documentation and relevant consents, since it still does not have a certified safety report and not even an operating permit? When will the facility be declared a nuclear facility? The public and, in particular, the surrounding population expect the facility to be adequately decorated, repaired and restored. Finally, waste from Zavrudac has been brought into it recently. Therefore, we expect from those responsible, both the nuclear safety management and the agencies, appropriate cooperation and activity that will exclude any security concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Environment and Space is now particularly engaged. First of all, what I would like to stress is that both from the nuclear safety report and, of course, from all the ground-breaking measurements that are taking place - for example, in the time of the renovations concerning hydroisolation, recently - no radiation doses have been detected that would in any way pose a threat to anyone. In short, there is no fear from this address. Well, if I'm trying to answer your question briefly, the situation is first as you described it. In doing so, it must be said that last October, if I am not mistaken, the Radioactive Waste Agency sent a nuclear safety project to the Nuclear Safety Authority, together with a plan of measures. However, the Nuclear Safety Authority was not satisfied with the rehabilitation project, but demanded a reconstruction project. In fact, it can be one and the same, but it may not necessarily be one and the same. The biggest problem was that the two state institutions could not agree on each other and it was sometimes, in my opinion, something about a prestigious battle in interpreting this or that sentence in this or that regulation. Well, anyway, as the minister, this argument was enough, so I organised a meeting with the leaders of the two institutions - recently, a few days ago - and there we agreed as follows: the Agency for Radioactive Waste must immediately, i.e. in the coming days or weeks, conduct a public tender procedure for the project manager for reconstruction. This procedure will take approximately 6 months. So, first of all, the call itself, once the contractor - the list of operators is chosen - somehow confirms or approves for nuclear safety - when the contractor is selected, it will have about 6 months to make this project for reconstruction. The reconstruction project, however, is a formal basis for the preparation of the safety report. However, when a security report is made, an object is officially declared a nuclear facility. So if I time-dimensionalize the answer to your question, this should not last longer than - or, certainly, it will not last, this procedure will not last less than some, say, 8 or 9 months, which should not last more than a year, but it is in work. And once again, I stress that there will be no fear, all the opposite measurements have not detected any danger to anyone. In short, security is not compromised.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci has the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I refer the question to the Minister of Justice, Mr Biszak. I am approached by citizens who have graduated from law school and would like to train in the courts, which is a condition for the conduct of a state judicial examination. The number of graduate university lawyers waiting for this traineeship is large, and the cities reserved for the internship are few, and the waiting period is also five years and more. At the meeting of the Committee on the Internal Policy of the National Assembly, when presenting your programme as a candidate for the Minister of Justice, you said that you would try to reduce a large number of pending students or diplomats in such a way as to enable them to train in the prosecution and not only in the courts. I wonder if anything has been done on this proposal. I believe that by allowing young graduates to train in the prosecution, they would achieve a reduction in the waiting period. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. Ivan Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u123	Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen. Quite a lot has been done with regard to this problem. It was also one of the main problems of the consultation or conference, which last month in Otoc, also related to education for justice. And just as a comprehensive reform, or a broader or narrower, of this judicial exam or a legal state exam, was one of the key issues. We have already developed a comparative analysis of the regulation of this issue in various countries, which should serve as a basis for choosing a solution. For there is more salvation. From introducing different types of judicial examinations or in this case this would no longer be a judicial examination, but a variety of types of legal state examinations. So, for judicial professions, for administrative professions and possibly also for certain liberal legal professions. Such a solution deviates greatly from the solution that is now in place and has not actually received much support, but it would, of course, be very easy to solve the problems which are now acute; it has, of course, resolved in this way that it would no longer allow for such a transition between different legal professions, which is certainly its weakness. That is why we have been thinking in other directions and the basic concepts of the solution are being drawn up and will be definitively determined this year, so that in the coming year we can establish those legal bases for different regulation of the legal state exam, of course all with a view to solving the problem that you have presented and which we are aware of earlier in the ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u125	Yeah, thanks, it'll be a while. What is the waiting period after this new concept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u127	See, the idea of a solution is to choose a solution that would eliminate the waiting period. So we are thinking in these ways that after general traineeships have been completed, for example, there would be shorter traineeships in court, part of a traineeship to be carried out in other places, in other bodies or in other employers who can give appropriate practice for those preparing for this exam. In short, these solutions have not yet been designed to be fully presented to you by one or more of them. But it's about following the court's options. The courts, after all the checks I have carried out myself, are unable to accept a significantly larger number of trainees. We have, for example, already changed the relationship between those interns who are employed in court and those who come to court, i.e. to a judicial internship from other jobs. That was one partial solution. A larger number, a significantly higher number of court trainees, simply cannot be accepted. Therefore, one element of the solution will also undoubtedly be that if the concept of a legal state exam remains to be reduced, the period of traineeship in a court and replaced, it will be necessary to reshape it in a different way; of course, by not reducing the importance and seriousness and weight of this examination, while allowing a larger number of graduate lawyers to carry out this examination.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished ministers, representatives of the government. First of all, thank all the ministries for their so far responsible or for the so far sent answers to the initiatives and questions I have been asking. First, a parliamentary initiative to the Ministry of Finance and Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia has around 135 billion tolars this year, more than 10 per cent of the 2002 budget. Tax collection does not take place according to the principle of equality, while, with time accuracy, the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia recovers taxes from ordinary people, even from the rubble, when the unemployed or the sick even recovers interest from unpaid debts on income, owes individual natural and legal persons billions, namely those natural and legal persons who have moved to an unknown location by means of stolen property or have brought businesses into bankruptcy, forced settlement or liquidation, with the property of these companies establishing new and new and new companies and have exploited the labour force in accordance with the principles of the grey and black economy. Of the 135 billion tolars of tax debt, 55 percent are inexhaustible. I therefore give the Government and the Ministry of Finance an initiative to: immediately regulate the legal basis for the tax authority to have the right to publish the highest debtors and their debts in the media. Secondly, the legal basis that taxable persons will have to submit a tax certificate upon sale of real estate. Thirdly, the legal basis for the tax authority to have priority over other creditors in the enforcement of real estate sales. And for the fourth time, to regulate the legal basis so that the fine in large amounts after the expiry of the payment deadline would be converted into a prison sentence. Once this is done, it will not be necessary for the State to increase the value added tax and other tax forms in the design of the budget and to seal already so poor and regular taxpayers. That was an initiative. The question is also raised by the Minister for Environment and Space. Why has the Republic of Slovenia not yet prepared and adopted a law on nuclear and radiation safety, even though the final deadline for the delivery of these documents to Brussels has been set by the European Community? This is supposed to be July 2001. And another question. After thirteen years, more than 15 highly specialized experts are expected to leave the Republic of Slovenia for nuclear safety purposes and are expected to leave the Office for deliberate bullying by the director of this office, for the implementation of the illegal human resources policy of the director of this office and for the alleged very poor and for the country of material and professionally highly harmful personnel policy, which is reflected in the departure of experts whose postgraduate education is costlyly paid by the State of Slovenia. I ask Minister Kopač - I know that today the most questions are addressed to him, I am sorry - if he can answer me whether the allegations are correct. If they are true: Who is responsible for such conduct and work of the office, and until when will such facts be admissible? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. As far as the law on nuclear and radiation safety is concerned, it is true that we are a few months behind in terms of the calendar of the envisaged adoption of the so-called European legislation. However, I can say that the law has already undergone interdepartmental coordination and is now at the government's service for legislation, which means that it could be at a government meeting in about two weeks. I almost hope 100% to ensure that it is still in Parliament this year. However, it is a system law and we would like to propose it in a quick manner, but I doubt that you will agree to it. But it is true that we urgently need it. All right, let's say, the controversy over the formalities mentioned earlier in his question by Mayor Domžal shows that there is a great legal void or that the rules are particularly outdated and inadequate. In short, it will happen or it will take place in the shortest possible time. As far as your second question is concerned, on the subject of the departure of expertise from the Nuclear Safety Authority, I am not aware of this information you have provided. I'll check on him. But it's true that right now I know at least one problem, I can even say bullying. One of the employees was put on a desk in the hallway, his computer was turned off and something like that. In short, it's a lot of messy things that I can say I inherited and try my best to solve with -- let's say -- calm words. However, if this does not work, we will, of course, take other measures. The data you gave me, I'll check it out, and I'll report it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you, Madam President. This is not a supplementary question, I would just like to remind you that the initiative I hope to take into account was the one that was recorded by colleagues or co-workers from the finance ministry and the government and that it will be taken into account at some point or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. I note that the Rules of Procedure of Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure on the order of the questions sent are in breach. In fact, it is unheard of that among the first 15 questions raised are eight government members who are skilled at exploiting TV time and thus taking the classic institution of opposition. Given that our Group of Members - all fourteen Members - has applied already a month ago and that it has the same quota as the smallest Coalition Party of DeSUS, I think it is an exclusive violation of the third and fourth paragraphs of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask that we vote on ending this order of questioning. The opposition is affected here, and it's being taken from a classical institute. You have found that television broadcasting is, and you have skillfully classified, against the provisions of Article 23, paragraph 3 and 4, coalition MPs who play the opposition attitude. This is a joke from our constituents and our viewers. I am protesting this and I ask that we vote that the next are now in line, as they have been reported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Your criticism of the work of the professional services, which, in accordance with Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, prepare a proposal for the President of the National Assembly in such a way that Members of the various parliamentary groups come in the order of their application. Mr Jerovšek, this is a severe criticism of the work of professional services, and I think it is also very unjustifiable. Let's get back to work. [[Ambassador Jerovšek is speaking from the bench.]] None of what you're saying, Mr Jerovšek, is true. Allow us to proceed with this, given that we have 23 more questions sent to us. Mr Valentin Pohorec is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, everyone! I will address my question to the Minister of Health. Under the Health Act, they carry out rescue services, emergency rescue services, including private health workers, organised either as independent entrepreneurs or as an economic company, on the basis of a concession granted by the municipality and with the consent of the Ministry responsible for health; this is provided for in the Health Activity Act. [[Official Journal No 9/92]] in Articles 41 and 42. For the purpose of carrying out that activity, both the municipality and the healthcare provider and the concessionaire shall conclude a concession contract for the provision of emergency rescue services as a public service. On the basis of an invitation to tender for health-care programmes, the Office for the Health Insurance of the External Contract shall decide with private health-care providers on the provision of health-care services, provided that they fulfil the legal conditions for carrying out this activity. So much for the intro. Question. Why is it that, in the practice of the Health Insurance Office, some taxi drivers also perform emergency rescue services, although they do not meet the legal conditions for carrying out that health activity? Why does the institution also allow such work and provide emergency rescue services to taxi drivers at prices that are almost equal to those of other operators who have concessions? The fact is that taxi drivers carry persons from place to place but do not meet specific legal conditions such as appropriately equipped vehicles with emergency medical equipment [[oxygen, bed]] , professional assistance at the time of transport and escort, etc. It should also be noted that there is an inequality between taxi drivers who do not have any limitation on the volume of transport, while concessionaires have a pre-contracted contract limiting the volume of transport and a provision that, in the event of an overrun, their price should be reduced to 70 per cent of the specified price. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General. Will you allow this situation to continue, and will you risk any event in the field of patient transport that will have certain negative consequences for health care and insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u139	Your Honor. The supply of emergency services, in particular their volume, which is characteristic of our country, comes from a time when patients, due to lack of means of transport, drove to the nearest hospital. However, even now that the means of transport are much more accessible and personal transport is much better, this remains one of the traditional and part of the social categories, although there are exceptions, in particular for chronic isolated patients, who have yet to be helped by emergency rescue transport. I will mention this as an introduction to saying that this right has been so extensive that it has been possible to provide for some time either with rescue services or with concessionaires that individual patients would not have waited too long for transports for hours to come to the right concessionaire. Therefore, until this year, and from this year forward, it has really come to the point that this country would only be more patient-friendly, allowing and paying taxis for these transports. As of this year, Mr Member, this has already ended in this year's Treaty, which, of course, is only now being signed. For this year, 2001, there are only concessionaries and rescue services carrying out emergency rescue services. That's how I think we've actually met what you're expecting from us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you very much. You don't want a follow-up question? The next question will be asked by Mr Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Respectable members of the government and other government officials, colleagues and colleagues. In opening, I would like to thank the Minister, Dr Gantar, the Minister for Information Society, kindly for the answers to the questions raised at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. I got these answers today. Today, however, I would take this opportunity to ask the Minister of Information Society a short question. This is: In the National Assembly, we have passed the Telecommunications Act and in this law we have foreseen that within six months of the adoption of this Act, the government will come to Parliament with a law setting out how and how those who invested in telecommunications networks will invest in telecommunications infrastructure, how these funds will be recovered and in what way. We know that an association of beneficiaries is organised. Six months have passed and I ask the minister: When will we receive this law for consideration in the National Assembly, and when can we hope for this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will give you the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Your Honor! That's right, you're right. We're late. The delay comes from trying to make a law that will not record the law and create the same problems as it was in denationalisation, which we know has been going on for years and years. That is why, we hope, we have prepared one procedure that will have a broken set of automatics that will speed up this process. There's been a little bit of a mix-up about how to do this. We have completed this coordination in the government, between the ministries. This Friday, three days from now, he's going into government procedure. I hope that next Thursday the government will confirm the proposal and come to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u144	Dr. Kalin, thank you. You want a follow-up question? Here you go, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Not such a complementary question. I don't think the reason that Dr. Kalin listed here is true. However, we would expect that, because we know that when we adopted this law, there was a lot of hot blood, how with this group or with this association, and we would expect the ministry or government to tell the national assembly why this delay had occurred, and that we would somehow be informed that we, as government Members, as members of the coalition, could tell people on the ground that the matter would only be in due course. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Dr. Joseph Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I would like to ask Mr Bisjak, Minister for Justice. By the way, I will talk about one syndrome that is well spoken in the Slovenian proverb "the crows don't turn off their eyes". In fact, I will talk about the conflict of interest that can be observed in various areas of our profession. In particular, I will talk about the potential conflict interest in the legal profession. In fact, as I understand it, lawyers have their own ethnic code, which is carried out by the Bar Association. This is also said to be done in solving, apparently, various complaints from clients about the work of lawyers. Of course, this system is incomplete. I'd like to talk about what kind of systems are elsewhere in the world. And one of these systems, which I think is best, is for the state to set up an independent commission in which there are representatives of lawyers, retired judges, civil society and members of the Commission - or the President of this Commission. This is how complaints come to a committee that is independent. And then every year, this commission publishes reports on its work and also on the cases it solved. Let me mention that I am looking at some of these conflicts, and I will point out one in particular, particularly in the legal profession; and this is if a legal adviser advises – say – the government about a project, and then the same counselor advises a working committee in our National Assembly. Is that a conflict of interest? I am not asking you in your legal opinion, but I am asking you in your legal opinion and whether your ministry has ever thought about this situation. I also ask if your ministry has ever thought about finally changing the system. And thirdly, let me mention that many of these conflicts are at economic level, because people sitting on different committees are mixed with other business partners, as Americans say, "interlucking directorship" and we have it full in Slovenia. What do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you. The mag will answer. Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. So, as far as I am aware, there is no single legal code in our country, so there is also no body to deal with all possible violations of such a code in a uniform manner. But there are codes of individual legal professions, such as the law code and the notary code. And the fact is that the Chambers, which bring together both lawyers and notaries, also essentially have the public authority to take care of order in their ranks and therefore to deal with complaints against the conduct of their members - lawyers, notary notaries. By the way, the D.A. Code is also in preparation, which specifically regulates ethical issues for prosecutors. Now, conflicts of interest in some of the areas you mentioned and, of course, outside these narrow legal professions, and probably could only be covered by some of the widest codes that would be applicable to all lawyers or could be carried out, enforced through other rules relating to the incompatibilities of the performance of individual functions and so on. Your idea to set up a special commission to deal with all possible infringements of ethical rules or ethical codes seems certainly interesting. This is, of course, an idea that would be current within some possible upgrade of the system currently in place. So if, for the entire legal profession, we put in place some uniform rules and, of course, a single mechanism to deal with it. As regards only the handling of complaints by dissatisfied parties concerning legal services, including notary services. I have encountered these problems in a different function, and personally, I can say that the sentence you originally uttered is very often used by such dissatisfactions. Of course, it is necessary that the Chambers assess each case as impartially as possible and that, in all cases, when it is actually an irregular, unethical conduct, they act in a timely manner. This will gain credibility, which at least in the work of the people - in the work of the parties - these professions unfortunately do not have this moment, so at least there is no broad confidence. So, I consider your question more of an initiative to continue thinking about how to introduce or complement existing mechanisms, of course, when regulating specific areas. It is clear that the rules governing relations in this area are in particular in the face of conflicts of interest relating to the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your answer. However, you have not touched my particular case and I would like you to explain this to me. If you can't, tell me where to turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you very much. You want the word "minister"? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u153	Yeah. Look. This is, I think, the inner thing of this house, if I understand what you mean correctly, and it will probably be necessary to clarify more in this house - you mentioned the committee - who can participate, in what role in the work of these committees and when it comes to two roles that are incompatible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to raise the oral question of the Member of Parliament and submit a written initiative. I would raise the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, particularly with regard to the pension problem, especially for pensioners who are Slovenian citizens and who were employed before the independence of Slovenia in the former republics of Yugoslavia, in Slovenian companies, so they were somehow in a completely identical working legal status, such as all others who are now recipients of Slovenian pensions. The problem arises because for these Slovenian citizens, Slovenian pensioners who receive pensions because of the situation in which they worked before their independence receive a pension from the Croatian pension fund or as it is already called. The problem is that they also receive a pension in accordance with Croatian rules, and also according to their standard, this pension is comparable to the same situation of a Slovenian pensioner who receives it in accordance with Slovenian rules. This means that these people, who were at some point, not by their own fault or by any fault, in a slightly different relationship, the situation, were now handicapped by the pension. The fact that the situation is even more difficult is that these people receive a pension with a substantial delay. The Croatian payer did not pay pensions for the previous month until this Monday. I think and I am sure that the ministry and the government should not allow such a situation, that two pensioners, Slovenian citizens who have just been in different situations, are now treated so differently, treated so differently, and I think that the government here should also, within the framework of an interstate treaty dealing with this issue, find a solution for the benefit of Slovenian pensioners, either with a score or with another solution. In no way can I understand that these two Slovenian citizens are in such an unequal position, so I propose and want from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs the answer: Why are Slovenian pensioners in such an unequal position; is it possible to tolerate or is this - and I am sure - necessary and urgently to change? I am already aware that the Minister for Labour has sent a protest note to a Croatian colleague in this context; this protest note obviously does not depend, as the situation from month to month is more difficult, and, of course, given the state of public finances in Croatia, it will probably be more difficult in the future. I therefore want a clear answer, including with a clear action, what the Slovenian Government or the Slovenian Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will do in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Bran Omerzu, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would answer the honourable Member like this. It is not only the relationship between pensioners who were employed in Croatian companies, but also pensioners who were employed in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. Because of the fact that relations are also reversed, with some of the problems of Croatian citizens who were sometimes employed here, especially from your end, who are also disabled, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will give you a comprehensive written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is a problem that is tanning - so I started in the beginning - all relations with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, not only with Croatia. But perhaps the biggest problem is that we are bordering this country. That's why I kind of put it more out there later. In this response, I would also ask you to seriously analyse the possible solutions to this situation, because the situation, believe me, is unsustainable and is not fair. I think we need to have a relationship with Slovenian citizens, which comes mainly from rights and from their work. I would also like to take the initiative of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport here and give it to her in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Vnučec has the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, namely Zois' scholarships. At the beginning of this year's school year, the government adopted a new policy and reduced Zois' scholarships by 10% for students and 7% for students. The beneficiaries of this title were 11,600 last year and the average scholarship amounted to 22,000 tolars. Given that this fund is intended for talented students, which I think is vital both for the economy and for the cultural growth of our country, I wonder: Why has the government set up a new scholarship fund at the same time? If I have the right information, it is called Ad futura, from which it will draw funds to grant more expensive forms of study of talented students abroad and foreign students in Slovenian universities. I wonder: Is the reduction of Zois' scholarships linked to the establishment of this new fund and this is about spilling this quota? In the Young People's Party, we believe that Zois' scholarships should only be increased - given that they have high reputations and are interesting in this respect - but not that we are reducing these funds and thus reducing the importance of this fund. On the other hand, what changes did the minister have in mind when she mentioned in an interview that the Zois Fellowship Fund would need to be redesigned and updated? I wonder, ‘ What are these changes, and what has been done in this area? ’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The answer on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will be provided by the Secretary of State, Dr Stane Peyovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u163	Madam President, ladies and Members of Parliament and ladies. Mr Member, I thank you for the question that has actually occupied us in the ministry for some time. The problem of scholarships in this country needs some renovations because the vast majority of scholarships, including Zois' scholarships, are in some ways unifying and Zois' scholarships no longer represent that particular focus for studies of talented and more talented people. As a result, we will probably have to reduce the number of Zois beneficiaries and only regulate the scholarship policy so that those who are more talented and more successful will also be better rewarded. That's what the Minister had in mind when she made that statement. As far as Ad futura is concerned, I believe that this is one of the government's major projects. In fact, there is a certain type of study, especially here at postgraduate level, which is either not developed enough in Slovenia, or it is not appropriate for such types of very expensive studies to be organised and experts in these areas are more than necessary. As far as the scholarship of foreign citizens is concerned, I must tell you that at the Ministry we are very well aware of the fact that we cannot talk about the brain drain or the brain influx, the only real policy is the movement of the brain, the movement of the brain. As a result, we do not have enough visiting professors at both Slovenian universities and any third university, and we do not have enough foreign students. So in this area, this flow, which would lead to higher quality studies, will have to be carried out and, of course, special mechanisms are also needed. I hope I've answered your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Colleague Sonja Areh-Lavrič gave up the question of parliament, so it is now Mr Samo Bevk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I ask the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport whether it is aware of the initiative developed in the professional engineering circles for the establishment of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering, which is intended to be established with the aim of fostering the quality growth of technical sciences and professions and engineering, which is the basis for research and development in the field of industrial technology, products and services, and in order to promote the growth of technical culture. Engineering Academy has many countries, such as Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, France, Hungary, Poland, the Netherlands, Croatia, Norway, Switzerland, England, Japan, USA, Canada, Australia, and also many other countries that are industrially and technologically lagging behind Slovenia. It is also right to point out that the Engineering Academy of Slovenia would not interfere with the work of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. With the establishment of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering, Slovenia will receive an institution that will be qualified to prepare and evaluate research, development, technology and innovation programmes and university and higher education programmes for engineers of all disciplines. I therefore propose to the competent ministry and the government that it proceed with the preparation of the law establishing the Slovenian Academy of Engineering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much. This is an initiative for which no comment is needed. The next question will be asked by Mr Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mr Herman Tomažič, to convey to the Minister Dr Lucia Čok my expectation that as a Member I would expect an answer to my letter within a reasonable time. More than a two-month deadline for me goes beyond this category of reasonable time, but if I am not right, I would ask for feedback on what the Minister has for a reasonable time to answer a question that does not concern my personal problem, but as a Member I represent an environment and I want to bear the problems of voters, citizens, interest groups in the resolution phase to the competent ministries. And, of course, we also need feedback to fulfil the function of a Member. So this is a problem with the problems that the citizens of Škofje Loka have because of the functioning of the institution within the Ministry, led by Dr. Chokov. This is first of all a problem at the principle level. I ask you to explain the professional basis and the social verification of the concept by which the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport places units for behavioural specific breeders in residential settlements. I allow the possibility of a modern and promising approach, which is unlikely to be implemented in practice without adequate principled and concrete verification. In a specific case in Škofja Loka, Kranj Educational Institute or Ministry in Podlubnik village bought the apartment house for the purpose of processing and later use for the controlled stay of the farmers of the Kranj Institute of Education. Following the information provided later, it is for minors who, on the basis of either a social service measure or on the basis of an order of the court, are assigned to the institution of education and protection for reasons of delinquency. I therefore ask first of all the arguments for the placement of such institutions in already existing residential settlements I present to you the protest of the affected citizens of Škofja Loka, who were not informed at the preparatory stage about the intention of the Kranj Educational Institute and had even less opportunity to give their opinion. Your ministry bought an apartment house more or less in secret and went into processing the building without providing adequate construction and location documentation before the construction operation itself. Since it is an object that directly touches adjacent buildings, damage to the neighbor’s house has also occurred among the construction parts. Citizens of Škofje Loke wonder how your ministry could have approached such a major change in the object's destination without obtaining a building permit and other relevant documentation. Personally, I welcome the efforts of all social factors to integrate into the active and creative population also those citizens and citizens who, for such or other reasons, have problems with integration themselves. However, I believe that by trying to help one another, we must not bring others into a subordinate position. One person's democracy ends where the freedoms of another person begin. I therefore ask for an answer to this question of my mission, both at the principle level and at the concrete level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Herman Tomažić, given that we have before us representatives of the government and in view of the repeated warnings by Members that they do not receive answers within a reasonable time, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, the Ministry is obliged to answer the question orally or in writing no later than three days before the first meeting. This is the deadline that has been set, and for the sake of good cooperation between the executive and legislative authorities, I ask you to stick to this deadline. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Tomažić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u169	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kavčič! First of all, I apologize for the delay in the answer, not the question sent, but the letter to the Minister. I'm guessing the secretary's delay will be fixed immediately. But as for the questions in general, the following. This is a matter of reform of educational institutions at conceptual level prepared by the expert commission for the development and renovation of the training institution, appointed in 1996 by the Minister by Decision No. 403/10. It is about integrating the institution into the environment, which is the definition of modern institutions for children with special needs. For the neighborhoods are more easily admitted to a residential group with eight, ten children than large institutions with a large number of children. Schools as such also find it very difficult to accept a large number of children with behavioural disorders. For they are much easier to accept in their environment a small number of these children. It should also be pointed out that large establishments cause a number of negative consequences or many of the opposite effects of the desired or expected ones. Housing groups, because of their smallness, because of direct and genuine communication between the breeders and between the breeders and because of more effective integration into the neighbourhood, do not create these negative effects and therefore this definition is certainly more appropriate than the large institutions. So much for the principle level. However, as regards the specific case, which you are referring to, the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has purchased an apartment house in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement of Previous Public Tenders in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, in the newspaper Delo and by collecting offers from registered real estate companies. All the competent authorities of the municipality, which are prescribed under such procedures, took part in the decision before the signature of the buying-in agreement. At the same time, I would add that the residential house continues to be intended for children and adolescents, which therefore does not mean a change in the destination of the facility, but that the building as a residential building is further integrated into this environment. So much for an answer here this time. A more detailed, broader answer to a system-wide question will be sent to you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members. The first question has already been raised by colleague Kramberger. Indeed, the Telecommunications Act, which was adopted or published in Official Journal No 30, clearly set a six-month period within which the State Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, must adopt the law. In fact, I ask the Minister: Why has the government or the competent ministry failed to notify the National Assembly, which is the real reason why it has not submitted a bill to the National Assembly in time to regulate the way in which the investments in telecommunications are reimbursed? Second. I ask the Minister of the Information Society whether the authorised representative of the Government at the Telekom Assembly on 14.11. had the power to vote for the membership of the Supervisory Council of this company if we could read from the media that the government had already given clear instructions to its authorised officer at its meeting a few days before that meeting that it should also vote in favour of mag. Tomaža Pogačarja. At the Telekom Slovenije Assembly, for which Mr Peklar was proposed as the head of the works instead of Mr Pogačar, Mr Peklar was elected on a proposal from the Capital Society. Mr Zdolšek informed the shareholders present that the proposal of the Capital Society was received just before the meeting of the Assembly. I therefore ask: Has the authorised representative of the Government, as a majority shareholder, voted both with the power of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or at his discretion? In fact, if he voted in his opinion, he exceeded his powers and also gave any of the 8,000 shareholders an opportunity to challenge the decisions put to the vote. And the third question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Recently, all beneficiaries of social assistance have received a decision which does not contain dates and deadlines for which all beneficiaries of social assistance receive this remuneration on a monthly basis. Indeed, in October the beneficiaries received this payment in mid-month, they have not received this payment in November, and informal information was received at the centres in order to pay for December only at the end of December. I ask: Does such a decision even hold up a legal judgement, and what will the Ministry do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you very much. First, I give my word to the Secretary of State, Dr. Tomaž Kaline. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister Gantar has informed the National Assembly that unfortunately there is a delay. However, it must be said that, of course, this is only a matter of pure delay, this will not affect the time when the costs will be reimbursed, because we all know that the implementation of this law is linked to the privatisation of Telekom and the resources flowing from the privatisation of Telekom, which, if not for another year and a half, will not be realized. So it's really a fundamental question, not that anyone would be harmed by this short delay. The answer to the second question is yes. The government authority had the power to vote in favour of counter-proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u175	With regard to the first question. Mr Secretary of State, I have doubts about honesty. We have learned these days that PTT ERC in IBM technology has ceased to operate. In particular, the data stored in the ERC’s ERC’s PTT and in microfiles by Telecom’s business units are still relevant in the collection of data and in the claim for reimbursement of investments in telecommunications. For this reason, I ask you: Did the State or the competent ministry, as a representative of the majority owner in Telekom, ensure the preservation of this data? This is about the first question. With regard to the second question, however, I am very interested: How did the content of the mandate given to the government officer come to be? I'm asking for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kalin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u177	As regards the first question, I would like to explain that we had a meeting with representatives of the association of beneficiaries about a month and a half ago, where we showed them a proposal for a law that was thus identical to that. As I said before, it was only about which of the state authorities is the one who steps - in the rejection contract - and here is the entanglement between the ministries. So I think that here, past some differences in views at certain points with representatives of this association, we did not have the feeling that we would be very unhappy with what we have shown here, that in some honesty or dishonesty - I do not think it is appropriate to doubt honesty. As regards the second sub-question in relation to the data available to Telekom, it is clear that the beneficiary is the one on which the weight lies to bring back the data providing the return of his payment in the system. As far as the last question is concerned, I can assure you that it was. I would not like to quote - I would expect, I could bring - and we will give you a written answer or a photocopy of that part of the mandate that the Commissioner had with him at the meeting of the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Brannet Omerza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. The Member of Parliament correctly concluded that decisions on the granting of financial social assistance do not have a date of payment. This is not because enforcement and thus the payment of such monetary social assistance are provided for under the General Administrative Procedure Act. We know that in these cases, the appeal does not hold enforcement and the beneficiary, when he takes the decision, will then receive payment. Within a maximum of 1/4 beneficiaries, they shall not take timely decisions and shall then be considered a 15-day period from the date of notification as if the decision had been served. That is why these delays are also due to the fact that the majority, namely 3/4 of the social cash aid paid around 20 per month for the current month. However, for all those who did not receive these decisions in due time and for the 5th month of the previous month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you have taken advantage of the additional question, Mr Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u181	I don't think there was a complementary question to that answer. I take this opportunity and thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the problem is that they are beneficiaries who are in fact socially threatened and need assistance if we actually know that they are breaking through day after day. Even if payment is not specified precisely, it is said that one month is the 15th, second month 20th, the forecast for the next month is that even later - well, such were informal information - it raises real doubts and also actually puts all these persons or citizens in uncertainty. In fact, in this area, the remuneration and the setting of deadlines should be more concrete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u183	Well, if you don't mind, I'd like to explain again. It is that one-quarter of the beneficiaries who have not taken decisions and then begin to run 15 days and only after that 15-day deadline comes the payment, which is the fifth in the month of the previous month. A large majority, three quarters, which, however, adopt the award decisions, have a payment of 20 per month for the current month.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The next question is the question of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It refers to professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. As you know from the statistics, the unemployment of the disabled has increased tremendously recently. At present, there are about 19,000 unemployed. Then if we figure out the number of jobs this year, that's about a thousand, you can quickly calculate how long it would take to hire all the currently registered unemployed -- that is, 19 years. In this case, no one should be re-registered. The Government's programme of training and employment for people with disabilities, adopted by the Government in 1998, is obviously not implemented and was simply paper to "help" the electorate. From summer on, however, the involvement in professional rehabilitation of disabled persons has been frozen. Frozen, no more plugging in. But we do know that professional rehabilitation is the basis for successful employment. So then we can expect employment to be so much less. If we compare data from other countries, we know well that every disabled person who becomes unemployed or becomes disabled goes to at least one active employment policy measure. If we look at it, it doesn't happen, maybe every ten. This, of course, is now shown in a small number of employees and high costs of passive forms - that is to say compensation for waiting for employment. Question to the government representative. On what basis have you decided not to involve persons with disabilities in professional rehabilitation - since summer? And second: When will you end such a policy or end such a destructive policy of hiring people with disabilities? Another question concerning the Minister or Minister for Education and Sport. It was set up at one of the previous private housing subsidies meetings, and the government changed from the previous 9,000 to 3,000, probably with the aim of stabilising students. The colleague asked if those students who did not have an invitation to tender in the first round would have the opportunity in the next round. In fact, you promised that there would be another invitation to tender, not only 3,000, but some higher amount. I would therefore like a very specific answer to the question: When is the subsequent entry or invitation to tender for this subsidy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Brannet Omerza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Given that this is an extremely complex issue or a problem of professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, which was raised by the Member of the Magi. He knows very well, and of course he is extremely sensitive, and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will respond in writing and in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Because between us, I don't think there are any representatives of the Ministry of Education, Mr Drobnic, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u189	That kind of behavior, I don't think it's worthy - by the government. I ask a question, we wait and now there is no government representative to ask me a very specific question - specifically from the Ministry of Labour has been a concrete answer; I hope it will come. [[...]] But it's not an apology, it's not gonna be a written apology, it's nothing! I mean, this is not a worthy picture of Parliament, but even less a worthy picture of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In fact, your criticism is justified; but I ask the representative of the Government, the Secretary-General, to ask the question posed by the Magi. He shall transmit to the Minister a written reply within the time limit laid down in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. First, I will ask representatives of the government a question which I have already asked twice, for the first time in writing on 26 July and the second time at the meeting on 25 September, concerning the financial resources of Slobodan Milosevic in Slovenia and the ways of Milosevic's capital through Slovenia, as discussed by Mrs Carla del Ponte, the Hague prosecutor, on her visit to Slovenia. As the Secretary of State, Mr Tolar, replied to me at the September session: "I assure you that we have sent you a written answer because I signed it last week, but I will, I swear, check why you did not get it before today's meeting." I didn't get that answer. I wasn't answered. Apparently, I've hit on a very explosive subject, and I know I'm not getting an answer today. For this reason, I will make a procedural proposal immediately after this question, how can I be answered? Now I am continuing with another question. In fact, I ask the Minister of Economy and Government: Does any ministry protect the interests of the State in the sale of companies in the SRD owned by the Slovenian Development Company? Does the ministry ever deepen how the SRD, for example, identified which companies are being exempted at the last moment from a package of enterprises dedicated to PID and under what criteria were the exceptions set? Is it normal for the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance to sell the Slovenian Development Company to "slamna" foreigners a successful company for a price equivalent to a one-month realisation of the company or less than an investment in fixed assets over the last four years? I also ask: Who gives the SRD a mandate for complete immunity and arrogance to the legitimate issues and demands of employees within companies owned by the Slovenian Development Society? For example, the Slovenian Development Company does not require business managers to try to obtain legal and unequivocal obligations or burdens of the company before the sale. As an example, I quote this. For many years SRD or its company Silkem has been avoiding the resolution of industrial property rights, even though a company with 100 employees has been living for many years from the sale of a product that is the product of the invention of internal authors. The SRD also ignores written warnings that this must be resolved before the sale because such an undertaking is not burden-free. Nor has the SRD respected in many companies its own written promises regarding the deposit of debtors and certificates. The third question I'm asking the government. I want the government's response to serious information that there is an agreement within the LDS to replace Minister Ruple. In fact, Minister Rupel is politically liquidated. I also want an answer as to whether it is accurate information to be followed by our fellow Member, Kacin. And [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u192	Mr Jerovšek, please, this is not a question of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u193	Of course it's a question of course! And: Is it true that Minister Rupel will be replaced because of his too pro-European, pro-nasional orientation and what will be the foreign policy orientation of the government in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. First [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u195	I've got a procedure right now!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u196	Mr. Jerovšek! You have announced that you will make a procedural proposal regarding how you imagine that you will get the answers. Regrettably, the framework for the functioning of our Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this relation of the question-making process lays down rules of procedure, and this is the only saving criterion for how one of the branches of government behaves.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u197	I'll explain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u198	This way we cannot decide and change these rules of the game by making decisions. [[...]] Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u199	I demand a adjournment. Please give me your word to explain what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u200	Mr. Jerovšek! In accordance with the rules of procedure, I must give the three representatives of the Government the floor to answer your parliamentary questions, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. And then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u201	The priority has to be procedural. The procedural proposal has priority, absolutely. It's still been like this so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u202	Then you don't want, obviously, answers to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u203	Because I've already done twice - so I know that in an open session I will not get the first question of the answer. That's why I want to make a procedural proposal. Please allow me. In fact, I asked which officials or politicians were involved in this transfer of Milosevic's capital and money, as Mrs Karl Del Ponte pointed out in the Work Journal of 30 June; where it was ensured that the answer came. But he wasn't here for two months, so it's obvious I hit on an explosive case. I believe that the interests of the State of Slovenia may be violated and disturbed if this is said in an open session. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 317 of the Rules of Procedure and in conjunction with Article 6, I propose that we vote to close this reply. I think it would be most appropriate that it is at the beginning of tomorrow's agenda, but let's vote today to close the session so that we can finally win - this is an extremely important issue and also for Slovenia's important interests, but we have the right of Members and we must be informed. There can be no hiding here if the Hague court is interested in something and that the interests of the state of Slovenia should not be violated, I propose that we vote on the need for an answer to this question closing and on the responsibility of Minister Bohinc and Minister of Finance - or Prime Minister, I do not know. Thank you very much. However, I demand a vote on this, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, your assessment that the answer will be of a confidential nature is your assessment. Representative of the Government, if he further explains to you that the answer is not of that nature and will not require the closure of the meeting, this is the matter of the one who talks about the matter and assesses the confidentiality of the individual information. Thus, your procedural proposal must wait for the representatives of the government to whom you have addressed the question to tell us that the answer is not possible because it has such a degree of confidentiality that it requires the closure of Parliament's work. So, meetings in this part where we'd like to give you an answer. So, Mr Jerovšek, I advise that we wait to get answers and obstacles that might prevent government representatives from responding to such a type of response that it is therefore not appropriate for the public. If you don't mind, I'll give the representatives of the Ministry of Finance my word, mag. Dark Tolar. If you allow me, Mr Jerovšek, you can rule out that I can thank you very much. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Jerovšek, I will start again with what you least like to hear. We apologize for the late response. However, I am sure, after you have heard my explanation and when you have received a written reply in your hands, confirmed by the government and sent by the Secretary-General to the National Assembly, you will find that it is not as bad as it may have seemed from some of the media suspicions about this matter. It is true that your question has been raised some time ago, and it is also true that in the Ministry of Finance we have prepared an answer to your question within the sectors. The following: the answer was intended to be prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the whole matter was later returned to the Ministry of Finance, which, of course, in order to give you the fullest possible answer, included in the preparation of the answers to your question also some institutions outside the government itself, in particular I am thinking of the Bank of Slovenia and other resources within the government. The answer is written and quite extensive. It states that Mrs Carla del Ponte, in talks with representatives of the Slovenian government and other representatives of the authorities, did not, in any event, express that she had any act to justify such suspicions. Only her press conference asked this question a day. The government turned to the Hague court further with a request and a desire to obtain any evidence of suspicion that has been bothering you for some time, as was the case when the issue was raised in the media, including the government and its institutions. We were in a somewhat difficult position because no interview with the Hague chief prosecutor was represented by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. We therefore turned to the Bank of Slovenia, which examined rumors or allegations in the media, since the topic was not open during the interview with its representatives. And even at the request of Banka Slovenije of The Hague there was no evidence that there was any suspicion in this direction. The Ministry of Justice has been in contact with Mrs Carla del Ponte since she met with the Minister of Justice. And that was also the first and only direct contact between the Minister of Justice and the chief prosecutor. At the said interview, the Minister and the Chief Prosecutor did not open the matter that you are referring to in their question. On the basis of the press ad and your question, the State Prosecutor's Office also did not find any evidence, any suspicion that any money from Yugoslavia or even Milosevic's own money, personal money, arrived in Slovenia and was located somewhere in some bank accounts or other institutions. The foreign exchange inspection also immediately carried out a verification of whether these funds could be located in the accounts of certain companies. The Foreign Service didn't find anything like that. The Money Laundering Bureau has also carried out its action - nothing has been found. Therefore, we can ensure that all the authorities of the government and the institutions responsible for such activities have, on the basis of your question and media information, checked whether there is really any possibility of such a thing happening. The answer is only negative: there is nothing like it in the evidence materials of the court in The Hague and there is nothing like it after checking in any bank or business account in the Republic of Slovenia. This is the short content of the written answer, which I hope will be transmitted to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much. State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Mag. Igor Strmšnik will answer your second question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u207	Dear Mr Jerovšek. You have expressed a number of assessments and concerns about the economic performance of the Slovenian Development Society and the conduct of the Ministry of Economy and Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its abolition. At the general level, I can assure you that the ministry's conduct for the economy has been well-intentioned, that we believe that the solutions we are proposing are appropriate and, of course, also economical. On a concrete level, however, we will try to understand the magnetogram and the range of questions that have been specifically asked and answer them in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I think you've also addressed the question to the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I give the word Did you get, Mr Jerovšek, answers to all the questions? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u209	Of course, I did not get an answer to the question about the replacement of Minister Ruple. But I have an additional question, if no one is going to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to answer the question of Mr Jerovsk? Secretary-General, mag. Mirko Bandelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u211	It is difficult to answer anything, but I think that the Member has in some way misused the question of the Members, which cannot be answered. Following the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and under the law on the Government of the Minister, the Minister proposes the appointment and discharge of a mandate holder to the National Assembly. And any question to the government or anyone who is not a mandate-holder misses its purpose cannot be answered. But I don't think even a mandate-holder can answer that question. It is not possible to expect the Prime Minister to think or to explain his ideas before they are made public and formally proposed to the National Assembly in any way. In doing so, it cannot be expected from the Prime Minister that he will descend to the level of the "men" if we can call it that, or the culinary rumours, he will comment on them or any way he looks at them. However, I can say with certainty that so much government policy and, above all, I know that I would not replace any minister because of his pro-European or pro-Ronton orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The next one has the Lord Jerovšek! [[...]] You will receive a written reply from the Ministry of Finance. Also by the Ministry of Economy. The Secretary-General has fully answered your question. He doesn't have jurisdiction anymore. Complementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Tolar first. Mr. Tolar, in this answer you have just given me, you have declared Mrs. Carlo Del Ponte incompetent. She specifically stated in her interview for Work what was the cause of her visit to Slovenia, that she was interested, through which financial institutions, legal persons led the ways of Milosevic's capital forward into the world. That's Mrs. Carla Del Ponte's direct statement. And you're saying that no one has put any doubt. With this answer, you have further substantiated my doubts or questions. After you answered that two months ago you had already prepared a written answer, that part; for I have not received any answer. Just before that, of course, September 11th happened, and apparently someone thought that things were different now that they could be covered up. I am convinced that such an answer is actually harmful that our institutions have not seriously released into the matter, as shown here. I doubt that the state of Slovenia can act in a credible manner. However, I am prepared to have serious answers at a closed session of Parliament. So much for that. For I believe that the most difficult thing in this matter is my question: What officials, which Slovenian politicians were involved in this? You didn't answer that. With regard to Mr Strumšnik's second reply - I believe that he cannot respond more specifically. However, I would like to make sure that I have not given any flat-rate issues, concerns - at least for the company I mentioned, is a story, Mr Peyovnik knows her very well, at least ask him what this is about. In fact, I would like and request a written answer. In fact, the things that are happening in the SRD are too loud in the sky. Moreover, it is not possible to reach Director Rekar throughout this year, and it is possible to reach all other ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. As my assessment was correct, you did not ask any supplementary questions. Mrs Silva Črnugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. All members of the government and members of the government are warmly welcomed. I will address today's question and the parliamentary initiative to the Minister for the Information Society or to you, Mr Tomaž Kalin. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed a contract with Telekom last year. The Treaty allows Slovenian libraries cheaper access to ISDN connection and other modes of transmission such as ADSL and the Internet. Last month, libraries received 100% higher bills for these services and services. I ask whether there is a real possibility that the new mix of 50% of the discount that Telekom should offer libraries, that the company that owns the country will also provide libraries with this service, and that the state and your ministry will take advantage of this confusion for the final and integrated regulation of the area by creating a project task in which experts from your Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, as the holder of Arnes, Izum and Telekom's library information system, as your primary objective is to allow universal access to electronic commerce to the widest possible range of individuals, institutions and institutions, in particular general-educational libraries, as these are the information centre of the local community. Only such a team of experts can determine what is the optimal and best solution for each of the libraries in the given space and time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Tomaž Kalin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. It is quite certain that our goal is what we call cheap access to the Internet, to services that are connected - the Internet itself does not make sense, but services that relate to this medium. Surely we were all who participated in the preparation of this treaty between the government and Telecom, convinced that things were changing for the better, so I am surprised to hear, except in some known exceptions, that these were higher prices. I think it's right that in addition to what Arnes is doing today, I have here a bunch of letters that have been sent to different addresses. [[kindergartens, schools, human universities, etc.]] to also review the library segment. Of course, neither the funds provided for the operation of Arnes nor the resources available to our ministry can cover that work, which is said to be links from the institution itself to a point of reference where Arnes is reached. This concerns the material costs of individual organisations joining Arnes. We accept your initiative, we will organise a meeting of colleagues from the Ministry of Culture, Arnes and our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u219	The centre of this question was on Telekom and the fact that they have rather vague prices. In view of the fact that Telekom is, in fact, predominantly owned by the State and operating in international transport as well as the fact that Slovenia exports most to the European Community as such, I am also referring an additional question to the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here, and perhaps, Mrs. Kamnareva, I can ask you. Does the Ministry of Finance, in view of the facts already stated, provide for a set of tasks and regulations to adapt the operation after the introduction of the euro, and does it also provide for a regulation, which will be awarded to Slovenian shops and others, including state-owned enterprises operating in international traffic, in two currencies? That's what they say in Tolars and Euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mrs. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In fact, we received the European Union's communication on the introduction of the euro, I think about a month ago. When we received this message, we approached the planning of the activities that would be necessary. At the moment, with concrete solutions, I do not yet know how to handle the problem, but we are certainly aware of the problem, and I think that when it is true, things will be fine so that there are no complications. However, if you want to, we can also provide you with more concrete answers to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. But today I can say a little differently than usual, because I am always at the end of the questions that have been sent - today it is important to congratulate the representatives of the government, because there are almost as many of you in the Chamber as there are Members of Parliament, Members and Members of Parliament, which is not the greatest honour. I will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. But I'm going to start like this: On November 17, 2000, the ants crashed from a mountain, a mangart mountain, to Log under Mangart, carrying several houses and causing the death of seven inhabitants of the village of Log under Mangart. I have a magazine in my hands called Ujma, a magazine on issues of protection against natural and other disasters. I think all the MPs and MPs got it. You are probably also aware that today at the Festival Hall there is a concert "Let us awaken life and help the village of Log under Mangart to survive". What do all these three things have in common? In this Ujma, 10 articles that speak are processed professionally by the Earth’s Plaza in Log under Mangart. The Plaza Staff. The invitation to the festival hall at a charity concert tells us that we want to help develop in Logo under Mangart. I ask the Minister: Why, after one year, even though we Members adopted an intervention law for Log under Mangart on 21 December last year, has not yet been legally regulated on how the question of Log under Mangart will be resolved. I have some knowledge of this area of reptiles and craziness, because I have studied it in part. I know we should decide whether there can be no more life in Log under Mangart or that other extreme that there is nothing to be done and that it can be lived there. In the meantime, Mr Minister, you are you who need to legally determine what will happen, that life in Logo under Mangarto will be safe and, of course, also a secure road connection through the Transcedence to Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. On the basis of the intervention law adopted last December, the Ministry of Environment and Space formed a committee, as an expert body, by Dr Majest, who was responsible for the preparation of expert solutions, on behalf of the Ministry or Government. This Committee has also drawn up all relevant expert solutions. It is true that the studies were somewhat delayed, especially the study or model of the Muraste stream, which we urgently needed to be able to determine by computer simulation which houses in Logo under Mangart are still at risk under the worst possible circumstances. This is because a plan of safeguard measures is then made on the basis of this. These are, the relocation of certain houses or the installation of certain security facilities. Which houses were to be moved, which buildings were to be built and so on, were all presented to the inhabitants of Loga under Mangart. Even the ministry, headed by me, had an extensive presentation of these studies and these findings in September in Bovec. On the basis of these findings, we have acceded to the drafting of a law on measures to remedy the consequences and prevent the spread of larger-scale terrestrial beaches. I've got a work version ahead of me. It has 39 articles. This law was written more than a month ago to the end. But it is still this moment, unfortunately, in inter-resort coordination, because it requires substantial financial resources. This cross-cutting coordination in this case is still ongoing between the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, activities are not just waiting for this law. We still have a legal basis for our conduct in the amendments or in the amendments to the earthquake recovery law, where, as you know, from June this year, there is also a chapter on the Plaza at Logo under Mangart on which they entered into the resolution of matters both by the Ministry and on its behalf by the state technical office. Thus construction permits were obtained for the first replacement facilities and an appropriate spatial act is being prepared for the whole of Log village under Mangart etc. If I try very briefly and in one sentence to answer your question, when will the final solution be known. The ultimate solution, as far as we're concerned, is well known. It only needs to be poured into the law, but it's in the procedure I've been telling you about. I expect you to receive the law in a very short time, perhaps within a week or two, and it will probably only be discussed at the January meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u227	The supplementary question will not only be for the Minister, but for all of us sitting in the Chamber. Do you and we feel good that after a year of beaching in Logo under Mangart again we move 45 houses to protected apartments in Bovec? I'm ashamed that we don't have a better solution. I'm really ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u228	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u229	Well, first of all, it's not 45 houses, but much less. But the fact is, until all the necessary protective facilities are built, and these will certainly not be built before two or three years from now, there will be a potential danger all the time. I think the residents of Log under Mangart are aware of this and do not take it critical. It's just natural. If we want to ensure absolute 100% safety, then we must be alerted each time to the potential weather conditions to which point it may be dangerous to release the potential beach mass into the valley. Both this danger and some latent danger exist and will continue to exist until all security facilities are in place. Once again, even if the money is enough, and in fact it is very large amounts, it is physically impossible to do all these objects before it has been about three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I want to ask you a question, but I don't know who. All right, government. The question is from a territory that is old, I can say, three, four months and it repeats itself, especially now that Slovenia has been going to the World Cup next year. Young people ask what we think in the National Assembly, whether Slovenia will have any new stadium, at least one such as Albania has. They say it is a shame for Slovenia that it does not have a stadium for 20,000 people and that it would be suitable for Ljubljana, even Slovenia, even for other events, not just for football. I said I'd get them an answer from Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Mamić, I think we had a chance today when, as the other Prime Minister, he asked our fellow Member of the Party of Young Slovenia, and the Prime Minister answered the question about the stadium. You want to, yes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u233	Madam Vice-President, I apologize for being on the National Communities Commission, so I was not present and I was not aware of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Davorin Terchón. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have two questions, first of all concerning the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and partly the Ministry of Economy. However, it is in the context of some of the questions already put forward today, and relates to a topic that has recently raised a lot of dust, namely the abolition of certain railway lines. I also have questions about the abolition of concrete lines, Ljubljana - Sežana - Nova Gorica - Jesenice, Nova Gorica - Sežana, Divača - Koper and Divaca - Buzet, but I understand the answers from the government that they cannot at this moment provide a guarantee for specific tracks, but that they will do everything to ensure further railway connections, especially on those relationships where there are no alternative links. In part, this also applies to these tracks. In this context, I ask: What does the government or the competent ministry intend to do with the measures available to them to avoid similar situations when Slovenian railways are forced by such highly unpopular measures and, I will say, useless measures? I see the opportunities that, in particular in the area of price raising, i.e. price policies in rail passenger transport, in the decisions on the use of rail infrastructure and in budgetary sources. When raising prices for rail passenger transport, I ask: Why did the government not follow my information or the rise in inflation in rising prices in rail passenger transport in the past year and this account is also among the planned or proposed auctions and real auctions, that is to say real auctions, created over 450 million losses or losses? This is particularly incomprehensible if we have before us the fact that prices in rail passenger transport are comparatively lagging behind prices in bus passenger transport by more than 40% and that they are comparable to the countries of the European Union in internal transport even several times lower. Given that Slovenian railways are state-owned and that we know what state they are in, such a policy is incomprehensible to me. In particular, it harms Slovenian railways and direct users. In doing so, I would point out in particular the most affected group of schoolchildren or their parents who are forced to pay several times the price of bus transport. I ask what the government will do about these possible measures in the future. My second question is very short. I'm setting him up with the Ministry of the Interior. I am interested in a comparison of the number of uniformed police officers in Slovenia according to the number of inhabitants with European countries. Where is Slovenia? In doing so, I ask that you also take into account the need for new employment in the police for the southern border, i.e. 1500 jobs at the southern border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you very much. As you already have, Mr. Terchoon, I think the Minister of Transport has promised us a written answer. Otherwise, I'll give you my word if you want the Secretary of State to explain it to us. Dr. Slavko Hangel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u237	I must say, as far as prices are concerned, I think this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. I will also be satisfied with the written answer, but given the breadth of my question, I think that some things can be answered by the Ministry of Transport or by the competent Secretary of State now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavko Hangel, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Indeed, in the field of the public service of rail passenger transport, it is necessary to take into account a series of measures that would actually serve at the end of a better stage of this transport service. Mr Member, you yourself have mentioned a number of these measures. In fact, one of these is also an appropriate price policy in this area. As far as price policy is concerned, the government has taken certain measures concerning prices and tariff policy in the current year. It is also true that these measures have only been partially implemented so far. Undoubtedly this lack of realisation also represents a certain deficit, which is not as high as you mentioned, but it is probably around 250 million tolars, which is of course not a negligible amount. However, with the already planned loss in the business plan for this year, it represents little, i.e. the projected loss was about a billion and 500 million. The fact is that these measures are only price rises and you also mentioned the utility of Use that if the actual passenger transport segment carried out in these public economic services would actually allow for some kind of economically viable business. [[...]] Since this is not the case, the government has also decided this year that the passenger transport segment should not be charged for use. This, therefore, is also an enidism of government measures that should serve to improve the situation of passenger transport. Of course, it is also on Slovenian railways that they contribute to their share by means of measures relating to supply, as far as business rationalisation is concerned. Although Slovenian railways have developed a programme for better management in the current year, which is being implemented around 70%. So, not entirely. In doing so, I would like to point out that what is proposed is a reduction in the number of trains, not the abolition of the lines, as was probably mentioned by mistake, represents an extremely small segment, given the number of passengers, as well as the number of trains. I believe, otherwise I was not present that the Minister has said this and we will explain in more detail in the written reply. It's 2.5 percent of all passengers and actually 16 trains. Nineteen trains were supposed to be shut down, three were supposed to be added, and that was actually out of the morning and afternoon horses. However, we will stick to this because it is the responsibility to confirm the timetable in our ministry, specifically the Railway Transport Directorate, that where alternative means of transport are not available, we will also ensure that all necessary resources are provided to drive at such intervals, this is also said on Saturdays and Sundays and holidays, that there will also be an appropriate number of trains. As it is said, measures will need to be taken both on the operator's side, in this case Slovenian Railways, and of course also on the government's side, particularly within the framework of the tariff policy. Finally, I would like to point out that the actual empty trains, and these are actually empty trains, where employment is less than 5 per cent, are not viable and it is mainly thought in this direction that where public bus carriers would not be willing to carry out these trains, this would be organised in some way either within the municipalities or also within the Slovenian Railways, transport users of such services with smaller buses. I think that the problem will not be as pressing as it appears now in the means of public information, as it is in fact necessary to align this timetable with the mayors before the timetable is announced. One of such meetings has already been held on Slovenian railways and the other is scheduled for Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Rad Bohintz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament is asking for statistics on the number of police in Slovenia and Europe. I can serve with information that we do not achieve European standards in the area of border protection; hence our obligation under the Schengen Action Plan to employ 2,100 new police officers by 2004, including 2004. This number includes employment already in 2001, following the Schengen Action Plan. In this way, as regards the number of police officers dedicated to border protection, we will achieve Schengen standards, which are European standards. Other new jobs are not foreseen in other areas during this period. As regards the achievement of the standards of Europe or the integration into European standards, we will give the Member more detailed statistics.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please, Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u243	I must say that the Minister of the Interior has focused primarily on the protection of the border. Of course, I would be happy if this segment were to be processed in response, but I asked myself this more globally. I understand that the specific data, the figures I've actually asked, cannot just shake my hand here, so I also expect a written reply within a time limit. However, as regards the abolition of railways, I must say that I have heard insufficient justification for the implementation of the price policy in passenger rail transport, but I really hope that a solution will come up in the further process of addressing this issue that will not affect certain areas. We will certainly monitor this very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Peterle, who is not among us, is next, so I give my word to Mr Fracet Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u245	Nice greeting, Mr. Honourable Minister of Health! The Slovenian public is concerned. With professional error with a fatal outcome, no one can remain indifferent. Doctors are given suspension, directly responsible people withdraw, but the blame for this condition is probably even higher. Although you have been well aware of the dangerously poor maternity staff for many years as the professional director of the Clinical Center, at the end of your career, the maternity ward is in even worse shape. The average age of doctors is 53 years. In seven years, half of them will be retired. If we want to maintain at least the current level of doctors in the maternity ward, this should immediately receive six new specialists. I am sure, Mr Minister, that if we were still in the position of the Director of the Clinical Centre, we would definitely have stepped down in recent events due to the issues that have taken place. As a minister, you are also well aware of the issue of primary gynaecological services, provided we remain with gynecologists only. Since there are 7,500 women on each gynaecologist, each gynaecologist should carry out approximately 10,000 preventive reviews per year, according to mandatory and luxurious instructions from the Ministry of Health. If we add all outstanding curative checks and controls in case of diagnosed disease or pathology, the gynecologist would be required to carry out 15 tests per hour. Since the clock is only 60 minutes old, it means that the gynecologist would have only an average of 4 minutes for one examination. Four minutes of sightseeing is only a minute longer than this question can last. In 4 minutes, the patient should not only be undressed and dressed in gynaecologist’s clothes, but also be consulted by the gynaecologist, examined, diagnosed and treated and completed all the medical documentation. Four minutes, Mr. Secretary! But not only did the then minister, Dr. Marjan Jereb, who accepted this document, bear the blame for this policy, but you also signed a regional agreement this year, despite the warnings of gynecologists, which imposes the same burden on gynecologists. Fortunately, I repeat, gynecologists have not yet adhered to these rules. And women don't know all their rights yet. But when women are aware of their rights, then, Mr Minister, the plasma of professional errors will certainly also be triggered in primary gynecology. Will you be able to point your finger at others? As Minister, you are the professional director of all health care. The greater the decision-making option, the greater the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u247	I thank the honourable Member for this question or for the set of questions. I also have an opportunity now to explain my views on the professional mistakes of recent times that occur in health care. First of all, these mistakes, according to my firm conviction, are no longer visible. In fact, there is less error, and it is right that there are fewer. Medicine is developing. Doctors know more. The equipment is basically better. And there's more to doctors in principle. But it is true that the public must know that doctors are not infallible. The debate on errors is open, not about the culprits. I would also like to say, on this occasion, that the Ministry does not wish to discuss doctors as culprits, but rather to call them to the point that the debate on mistakes also means the way to improve processes, that fewer and fewer mistakes are being made in the future. Once again, even on this occasion, I would like to tell Members that there are almost certainly fewer mistakes in health than there were 10 or 15 years ago. Second thing. Gynecology is one of the most beautiful horses in the world. Probably still, although we don't have very clear comparisons. In any case, gynecology is traditionally, even due to its content, well controlled, keeps good records, and hence, recognition, including bad effects, such as errors, occurs first. Gynecology is also the best employed profession in Slovenian medicine. If we talk about a lack of gynecologists, the question is asked to me and, of course, to the parliament that approves money or approves health contributions, what will they say to other professions when the question may also come up with mistakes, whether the error may be due to the fact that there are too few doctors and other health workers employed. On this occasion, while I am aware of the responsibility and the role of the ministry, I would only like to recall the debates in this same Parliament, perhaps even from the same Member, when we discussed the referendum on fertilisation, where the Ministry or the Minister of Health was expressly denied the role to intervene in an area that is specifically professional. Although that debate was at least specifically linked to several professions and, most importantly, political, not only professional. This time, however, we are dealing with the organization of one profession, of course it is not only gynecology, but the whole of Slovenian health care, and this profession is once in the past, it was not the central committee of one of the previous countries, it was the profession that proposed such organisation, which today led to the ultimately irrational use of personnel. We are among the countries that have primary gynecologists or gynecologists in the primary and secondary health network as some kind of exception. Not only do we expect it to be, but we have called on it to make such organisational changes, so that we can study them and, of course, also support them and introduce them into the system. But without professional suggestions, we cannot tell ourselves how to organize gynecology, nor can any of the 40 professions working in healthcare. So let me say the following. Our gynecologists should not be so burdened with good organization. We have more gynecologists than most countries in Europe have. The extensive nature of their work, the number of reviews that lead to individual subjects being examined 10 times a year, and two thirds of women never a year, is not the policy of this ministry. This ministry this year, not only to gynecologists, but to all physicians in basic health care, has divided the number of price reviews or the initiative to extend the individual review and become much more effective and to reduce the number of reviews. I will not take the time at this hour for Members to explain the overall policy of the Ministry of Health, but I want to say that gynecologists themselves are aware of what is to be done, we expect them to make a comprehensive proposal as soon as possible. On the basis of their proposal, I am confident that, within the scope of our option, we will allow the Slovenians even better, not better, but better, health care in the field of gynaecology and childbirth. Of course, it would be a bit depressing to say that you will be discussing in a short time, partly in this session, that you will also discuss money for health care. Then, of course, we will try to prove that on the one hand we are doing measures to make healthcare more effective and to save, and on the other, of course, we cannot expect a response only in increasing staff and equipment. We're fighting for it. We also expect with your help that we will have better funding next year, that there will be more money for investments, that excise duties will be approved and that they will go to the health toll for investments and that we will get some new gynecologists out of this. But it is not easy to pull a magic wand and tell it to be more doctors. Allow me just one small case. When a doctor's union demands an increase in wages and interprets the recent negotiations with previous governments as final, and at the same time requires greater employment at the same time as wage increases, it actually requires around 10 to 15 billion new money for wages alone. This is, of course, a number that Parliament will also have to consider, not just a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u249	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I asked July why there was no agreement in the field for hospitals. The agreement thus lays down the conditions for the operation of hospitals this year. That's when I received an answer that the signature is just before the fruit and will be signed before the permission is granted. Well, this plant's been going on for five months, and it's been a deal ever since. He wasn't even in the government. At the end of the year, hospitals still do not know what conditions they are operating under and how they should behave not to be red again. Something like this hasn't happened since we were independent. Mr Minister, I don't mean to be mean, but if you were in the opposition, how would you characterize such a minister as a man who is not in trouble or a victim of bad government policy. I don't know. It's just a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u251	Very briefly. The way hospitals are financed is, just as very global information, so unchanged that, if there are no negotiations completed, the funding goes according to the rules of the previous year. After all, this country, when sometimes adopting its budget or having adopted it in the past months of the current year, has done the same. In fact, we have just embarked on large-scale reforms in the financing of health care this year. The project took place throughout the year and has also led to dramatic changes in progress. Today, hospital lying hours have been reduced by exactly 25% to 30% in the last two years. Today we are saving billions of money that would have been spent and spent in previous years. We have changed funding in this process. However, let me say that the problems of signing these contracts towards the end of the year are not only on the Ministry's side. We regret, as is the case, having experienced a relatively poor, difficult way of negotiating with partners. That's not a finger-to-eat thing. But simply, the reforms that are under way really take time. However, the contractors knew the methods or funding rules at least at this level that they knew at least as they did last year. That's usually the way it goes. I do not say that this is a good thing, but there are, and we are probably familiar with, very big changes in funding that will make order.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik will be the last to ask us the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, distinguished representatives of the government! My question is for the Ministry of Transport. The construction of highways is undoubtedly extremely extensive, as well as a painful intervention into a space that in any case radically changes the way of life in the space where construction is carried out and carried out. The necessary construction of motorways is expected to improve transport safety as well. I hope that this will also happen in most cases, even if the investor fully respects the location regulation adopted by the government for each motorway section separately. My question concerns the non-implementation of the location regulation at the Arja Vas - Vransko motorway section. The construction of the Arja Vas - Vransko motorway section, in the area of today's exports, has cut off two parallel public roads, public roads, which took the north and south of the former main road. And there was a slow traffic along these two roads. So these two roads were meant for mechanical engineering, cyclists and pedestrians. From the very beginning of the construction in 1995, these two road links, which link this part of the Savinja Valley to the local centre, were interrupted. That is how it remains to this day. Contrary to the location regulation, which provided for the construction of an alternative route for slow traffic on the north side of motorway exports, this unfortunately did not happen. So today, pedestrians, cyclists, agricultural machinery, are all forced to use the existing, now regional road through this overpass, which does not have a biking track or a regulated sidewalk for pedestrians. This is also confirmed by the opinion of the Committee on Prevention and Raising in Road Traffic of the municipality, which explicitly identified this. For this reason, we also need to carry out special transport of children to school, as the transition through this bulkhead is dangerous and inappropriate for school-bound children. Everything is clearly regulated in the Location Regulation. The motorway section was built, I think in 1997, whether it was in 1997 or 1998, it doesn't even matter anymore. It's been three years since this highway was built. This section of the road is not for slow traffic despite the regulation, unfortunately there is no road. I ask two: When will this road be made according to the regulation? I wonder if this motorway section has a usable permit, how could it have been obtained if it is explicitly clear that this provision of the regulation has not been implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Slavko Hangel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the question has also been raised quite a bit in the past and that a thorough answer is actually needed here and a review of all these procedures, which have been carried out in the meantime, would have been answered in writing by the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u257	Just a brief explanation. We should not even be here anymore if we had the answer to the question of 26.9. with the same content. One month after that, I think it was 27.10. But I also wrote and asked for an answer to this question, which I specifically addressed to Secretary of State Anton Shaina. That's why I expect to get a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I apologize on behalf of the Ministry. I don't know how this happened to us, but we're gonna fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-20-SDZ3-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me, on our common behalf, to thank the representatives of the Government, the Ministers, the Secretary of State very much for the answers given. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. by addressing item 2 of the agenda and then by order of business. Thank you very much and good night.
